Annual Report 2016

Corporate Profile 

Techtronic Industries Company Limited (the 
“Company”, the “Group” or “TTI”) is a world leader  
in Power Tools, Accessories, Hand Tools, Outdoor  
Power Equipment, and Floor Care and Appliances  
for consumer, do-it-yourselfer (DIY), professional and 
industrial users in the home improvement, repair, 
maintenance, construction and infrastructure 
industries. TTI is transforming these industries through 
cordless technology.

An unrelenting strategic focus on Powerful Brands, 
Innovative Products, Operational Excellence and 
Exceptional People drives our culture. The TTI brands 
and products are recognized worldwide for their deep 
heritage, superior quality, outstanding performance and 
compelling innovation. Through a company-wide 
commitment to innovation and strong customer 
partnerships, TTI consistently delivers new products 
that enhance customer satisfaction and productivity. 
This focus and drive provides TTI with a powerful 
platform for sustainable leadership and strong growth.

Founded in 1985 in Hong Kong, TTI has a portfolio  
of industry leading brands, a worldwide customer 
reach, and over 20,000 staff. TTI is listed on the  
Stock Exchange of Hong Kong and in 2016 had 
worldwide annual sales of US$5.5 billion. 

Contents

2  Financial Highlights

4  Chairman’s Statement

8 Chief Executive Officer’s Message

12 Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools

34 Floor Care and Appliances

44 Management’s Discussion and Analysis

53 Board of Directors 

59 Corporate Governance Report

71 Environmental, Social and Governance Report

78 Report of the Directors

88 Independent Auditor’s Report

92 Consolidated Financial Statements

98 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

171 Financial Summary

172 Corporate Information

 
Financial Highlights

Revenue

Gross profit margin

EBIT

Profit attributable to Owners of the Company

Basic earnings per share (US cents)

Dividend per share (approx. US cents) 

2016
US$’
million

5,480

36.2%

450

409

22.32

6.44

2015
US$’
million

5,038

35.7%

400

354

19.37

5.05

Changes

+8.8%

+50 bps

+12.6%

+15.4%

+15.2%

+27.4%

• Revenue increased 8.8% to a record US$5.5 billion

• Revenue adjusted for foreign currency grew 9.8%

• MILWAUKEE business continues to grow with strong momentum

• RYOBI business delivered double-digit revenue growth

Revenue 

Gross Profit Margin 

EBIT

US$5,480 million

+8.8% 

36.2%

+50 bps 

0
8
4

,

5

8
3
0
,
5

3
5
7
,
4

0
0
3
,
4

2
5
8
,
3

2

.

6
3

7
.
5
3

2
.
5
3

2
.
4
3

5
.
3
3

%

36

35

34

33

32

31

30

US$450 million

+12.6% 

US$m

0
5
4

0
0
4

1
5
3

450

400

350

300

250

200

4
0
3

0
6
2

'12

'13

'14

'15

'16

'12

'13

'14

'15

'16

'12

'13

'14

'15

'16

Revenue

Gross Profit Margin

EBIT

US$m

5,500

5,000

4,500

4,000

3,500

3,000

2,500

2

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Sales by Location 

Sales by Business

75.9%

North America

16.2%

Europe

7.9%

Rest of the World

81.6%

Power Equipment,  
Accessories and Hand Tools 

 18.4%

Floor Care and Appliances

• Gross margin expanded from 35.7% to 36.2%, an increase of 50 basis points

Sales by Business (PE)

• Net profit increased 15.4% for the year, delivering double-digit growth for nine consecutive years

• Efficient working capital management at 16.4% of revenue

%

Profit Attributable to Owners of Company

Basic Earnings per Share

Dividend per Share

US$409 million

+15.4% 

9
0
4

4
5
3

0
0
3

0
5
2

1
0
2

US$m

400

300

200

100

0

US22.32 cents

US6.44 cents

+15.2% 

US cents

+27.4% 

US cents

2
3

.

2
2

7
3
.
9
1

1
4
.
6
1

8
6
.
3
1

2
4
.
1
1

24

20

16

12

8

4

0

4
4

.

6

5
0
.
5

5
0
.
4

6
0
.
3

5
2
.
2

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

0

'12

'13

'14

'15

'16

'12

'13

'14

'15

'16

'12

'13

'14

'15

'16

Profit Attribute to Owners 
of Company

Basic Earnings per Share

Dividend per Share

3

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Chairman’s Statement

“We will continue exploring new strategic 

initiatives while at the same time expanding  
our core business into new categories  
and geographies.”

4

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016I am delighted to announce that 2016 was our seventh consecutive 
year of record revenue and ninth consecutive year of record profit.  
TTI achieved this with a disciplined focus on our four key strategic 
drivers of powerful brands, innovative products, exceptional people, 
and operational excellence which enables us to further drive our 
financial performance and deliver on our corporate milestones.

Record Financial Performance
Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2016 increased 8.8% 
over 2015 to US$5.5 billion, through continued investment in new 
product development, R&D and marketing. Revenue before currency 
adjustment rose 9.8% with all geographic regions delivering solid 
growth. Our largest business, Power Equipment, had another 
exceptional year with sales growth of 12.6% to US$4.5 billion, 
accounting for 81.6% of total sales, and an increase in operating 
profit of 13.4% to US$430 million from US$379 million in 2015. 
Sales in our Floor Care and Appliance business were slightly below 
last year by 5.3% with a negative impact upon foreign currency 
translation, but delivered encouraging growth in the second half in 
North America. We are confident our strategy in driving innovation 
through product development with technology-driven solutions  
and a focus on cordless and professional cleaning will drive the 
turnaround in the coming years. 

Our core strengths of innovation, execution, and speed to market  
are the prime competitive advantages driving TTI’s success.  
Gross profit margin improved from 35.7% to 36.2% driven by  
new product introductions, mix, operating leverage and productivity 
gains. Earnings before interest and taxes, increased by 12.6% to 
US$450 million, with the margin improving by 30 basis points to 
8.2%. Shareholders’ profits rose 15.4% to US$409 million, with 
earnings per share increasing by 15.2% over 2015 to US22.32 cents. 
Working capital as a percent of sales remained low at 16.4% and  
our gearing at 5.2%. 

The Board is recommending a final dividend of HK30.00 cents 
(approximately US3.86 cents) per share. Together, with the interim 
dividend of HK20.00 cents (approximately US2.57 cents) per share, 
this will result in a full-year dividend of HK50.00 cents (approximately 
US6.44 cents) per share, against HK39.25 cents (approximately 
US5.05 cents) per share in 2015, an increase of 27.4%. 

Strategic Initiatives
TTI continues investing in R&D to deliver innovative new products 
with our portfolio of global brands. 2016 was another year of 
significant advancements in our market leading lithium technology 
with the introduction of the MILWAUKEE M18 REDLITHIUM  

5

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Chairman’s Statement

HIGH DEMAND 9.0 battery pack, the most powerful in the industry.  
Unlike other industry solutions, the HIGH DEMAND 9.0 Battery Pack 
enables users to remain invested in one battery platform and is 
compatible with 125+ M18 tool solutions. Leveraging the new battery 
pack, the M18 FUEL 10” Dual Bevel Sliding Compound Miter Saw 
was designed to meet the demanding needs of professional users by 
delivering corded cutting performance. RYOBI ONE+ system is the 
global leader in cordless do-it-yourself (DIY) tools, continuing to 
innovate and bring more tools onto the platform. The AEG brand,  
with its strategic importance in Europe and Rest of World markets, 
delivered growth as we continued to expand the cordless range 
product offering.

The investment in cordless technology is also a catalyst for growing 
our outdoor equipment business. We are expanding the outdoor 
product equipment business with RYOBI ONE+, RYOBI 40V and  
AEG 58V systems. We have entered the lawn and garden market 
using the MILWAUKEE M18 FUEL technology in developing an 
innovative string trimmer, blower, and hedge trimmer that meet the 
demands of landscape professionals and are fully compatible with 
the MILWAUKEE M18 system.

Our new Floor Care leadership team has established a clear strategy 
and is focused on revitalizing our brands HOOVER, DIRT DEVIL, 
ORECK and VAX. Future growth will be generated through execution 
of the TTI model of excellence in product design, advanced 

technology development and brand marketing. We will be launching 
significant first to market innovations like the HOOVER REACT 
vacuums featuring FLOORSENSE Technology using micro-sensors  
to identify floor surfaces, HOOVER App controls, and the ONEPWR 
lithium battery system. Further cordless developments are featured  
in the recently introduced VAX BLADE powered by DIRECT HELIX 
TECHNOLOGY for optimum runtime and cleaning performance in 
any orientation. We have a new headquarter in Charlotte, North 
Carolina, with state-of-the-art facilities for product development and 
consumer research. We are excited with the new innovative products 
planned in 2017 and beyond.

We have a deep commitment to operational excellence and continuous 
improvement. Our disciplined processes in lean manufacturing, 
automation, global purchasing, and value engineering continue to 
deliver efficiencies, reduced lead-times, and improved quality and 
service levels. We continue to build production and supply chain 
capacity to support our growth. In 2016 we expanded US production 
capacity, built a state-of-the-art logistics and manufacturing  
operation in South Carolina, and are expanding the Milwaukee  
global headquarter and R&D center. We have five manufacturing 
locations and four R&D centers in the US employing approximately 
five thousand people which globally supply our brands with  
innovative products.

6

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016We have expanded in scale and global reach since the early days  
of TTI, yet we have kept the importance of our entrepreneurial 
organizational culture. We have an exceptional DNA focused on  
the relentless drive for excellence, skills, creativity, and urgency 
necessary to produce the team of exceptional people required to  
lead TTI today and in the future. We believe that TTI owes its success 
to our employees who embrace the TTI culture and our focus.  
Their enthusiasm, energy, and dedication helps us deliver the goals 
we set every year.

Exciting Future
Over the years, we have set the stage for a very exciting future.  
We have built an amazing brand portfolio, invested in world class 
talent, and driven innovation that is state of the art with speed to 
market that is second to none. We are approaching a decade of 
delivering year over year record performance and our dedication  
and commitment that got us to where we are has more momentum 
than ever. Our new product flow will continue and I am extremely 
excited about the innovation that we have coming which will feed  
into our product pipeline well into the future. We understand the 
importance of not becoming complacent and our relentless focus  
on our strategic drivers is what continues to keep our foundation 
strong. We will continue exploring new strategic initiatives while at  
the same time expanding our core business into new categories  
and geographies.

I am delighted with TTI’s success in 2016 and even more excited 
about 2017. On behalf of the Board, I would like to express my 
gratitude to our customers and everyone at TTI for their commitment, 
support and creativity to make TTI what it is today. TTI is an 
outstanding, industry leading company with vast opportunity.  
I look forward to our continued success in achieving our goals  
and delivering strong performance.

Horst Julius Pudwill
Chairman
March 14, 2017

7

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Chief Executive Officer’s Message

“We have a bold, disciplined strategic plan  
for the next five years that focuses on the  
global leadership we will achieve in our  
served markets.”

8

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016TTI is generating extraordinary results. We are flourishing by 
rigorously executing our bold strategy, launched ten years ago, that 
created the platform for our industry-leading growth. And we will 
aggressively continue to follow this strategy as we expand into new 
categories, new businesses and across the globe. A core part of our 
strategy is to invest in R&D to drive innovative product development. 
To be successful we have built a world class R&D capability and  
new product development process with speed-to-market competitive 
advantage. We have been introducing one break-through new 
product after another, delivering a high level of product vitality year 
after year. Our disciplined focus on creating new innovative products 
has yielded growth that is well ahead of our competitors and 
produced profit improvements faster than our sales growth.  
Executing the strategy is unlocking the vast potential of TTI by  
driving our businesses to continuously and systematically create  
new growth opportunities. Although we are extremely proud of our 
accomplishments, we maintain a relentless focus toward the future 
and dedication to our core strategy. TTI is just getting started.

Power Equipment Growth Vision
Over the next five years our plan is to pursue a much broader vision 
than conventional wisdom suggests. We see there is an opportunity  
to dramatically expand the market for cordless labor saving devices. 
The TTI cordless product innovations are growing our served industry 
by driving disruptive changes and generating user demand for the 
convenience and performance of cordless products. As we continue 
to deliver new cordless product innovations across categories, we 
expect to be the stimulus over the next five years that significantly 
expands our served market beyond what we see today.

We have identified nine targets for technology and new product 
development which are the catalysts for our cordless growth. By 
focusing on these catalysts we are developing product innovations 
that are driving both our growth and the expansion of the cordless 

served market. Our goal is to create and harvest these opportunities. 
Through our strategy we will be at the vanguard of the cordless 
evolution of our served markets.

Corded to Cordless: this transition is moving at a fast pace as 
cordless technology continues advancing, driving the opportunity  
to replace traditional corded tools.

Pneumatic to Cordless: the convenience of cordless on the jobsite 
will displace the need for compressors and hoses.

Petrol to Cordless: the environmental benefits and convenience of 
cordless have already been replacing the traditional petrol powered 
portable products and as cordless technology continues evolving the 
opportunity to replace outdoor products expands.

Corded Lighting to Cordless: by combining LED technology and 
cordless we are providing complete lighting solutions for the vast 
portable and jobsite applications.

Hand Tools to Cordless: by delivering better productivity solutions 
with small, lightweight and power of cordless – like the MILWAUKEE 
subcompact M12 range.

Hydraulic to Cordless: the improved productivity of cordless on the 
jobsite will replace the traditional hydraulic tools.

Replacement Cycle: product lifecycles are becoming shorter with 
rapid progress in technology and product development.

Batteries Aftermarket: expanding at a fast pace with the cordless 
industry expansion.

Network Effect – Bare Tools: users are expanding their demand for 
tools by leveraging a battery platform.

9

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Chief Executive Officer’s Message

We are creating market demand through great products and 
convincing users to switch to cordless. The overarching network 
effect of cordless, because of the interconnectivity of tools and 
products through the battery and electronics systems, will continue 
adding users to the leading battery platforms of the TTI brands  
like RYOBI ONE+, and MILWAUKEE M12and M18. Our strategic 
battery platform approach to new product development opens  
the door to limitless product line expansion and new category 
entrance opportunities.

Revitalized Floor Care Growth
We have an exciting strategy and vast potential for the floor care 
business. The future of our floor care is in cordless, which as  
a category grew 53% in 2016, validating our strategic direction.  
We have an exciting new product development plan that will generate 
a new growth trajectory and improve profitability. We have reframed 
the business, assembled a strong management team, completed the 
exit of non-core products and channels of distribution, established  
a world class innovation center and headquarter in Charlotte and 
energized the new product development to focus on our formable 
cordless technology and break-through innovation process,  
both core competencies of TTI. The revitalized business will bring 
innovation to cordless cleaning for consumers and commercial  
users. The first product wave of new products, stick vacs and robots, 
were introduced in 2016 and contributed to the second half sales 
growth in North America. A comprehensive range of new innovative 
cordless products is being launched in 2017 like the technology 
HOOVER REACT and VAX BLADE ranges. We are confidently  
moving aggressively forward with our product development and 
marketing plans.

Recent Acquisition Successes
We are not desperate acquirers. We look for strategic fits with 
technology, brands or product. Our recent three year acquisition 
activity of EMPIRE level, INDEX tape measures, KOTTMANN chisels, 
and ORECK floor care has contributed to the Company’s sales and 
profit growth. All four are strategic fits with our existing businesses. 
We conducted a rigorous TTI business model integration of these 
businesses to drive innovations, extract operational efficiencies,  
and improve profitability. EMPIRE level for example with an aging 
product range and very few new products has been re-invented, 
delivering innovation across a complete industry range of products. 
The introduction of EMPIRE ULTRAVIEW LED box levels with  
high definition viewing in all conditions and the industry’s first 
auto-calibrated digital levels with inspector grade measurement  
is just the beginning for EMPIRE. Looking forward, we have a lot of 
potential in the businesses we are in and are focused is on organic 
growth, but we carefully examine every opportunity for acquisitions 
that make strategic sense and have proper valuations.

Strategic Manufacturing Diversity
TTI has a global manufacturing footprint providing strategic 
geographic diversity. We are globally aligned in production and supply 
chain capacity to support our growth. We source and manufacture  
in the best cost locations to supply our global businesses. In addition 
to our world class Asian and European manufacturing operations, TTI 
in the US has five manufacturing locations covering over one million 
square feet and four R&D centers which are thriving. We made 
further investments during the year in our US operations to support 
both our US and Rest of World businesses. As all our manufacturing 

10

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016I am very extremely proud of what we have accomplished in 2016. 
TTI has built an enviable track record of outstanding performance.  
It is the leadership of our Chairman, Horst Pudwill, with his vast 
energy, unique vision and relentless pursuit of higher standards that 
best defines our remarkable culture. He is a powerful role model  
for current and future generations of TTI leaders. It is an honor and  
a privilege to have Horst as a mentor. Today, we are both even more 
optimistic about the future of this company.

Joseph Galli Jr
Chief Executive Officer
March 14, 2017

facilities execute cellular and lean manufacturing practices and  
are vertically integrated on key components and linked to our global 
purchasing network, we are able to ramp-up production rapidly.  
In support of our flourishing business the US based headcount has 
grown 41% over the past four years.

TTI Leadership
Our TTI team is the most important piece of our business model. 
Everything begins and ends with people – the planning, the creativity 
throughout our business required to generate innovation, and the 
execution of our processes to deliver results time and time again.  
We believe in developing our future leaders internally to feed our  
TTI management ecosystem. We cultivate extraordinary leaders by 
providing the mentorship, business tools, and opportunities for our 
teams of entrepreneurs to have the resources and freedom to drive 
hard, be creative, and deliver results.

Our culture breeds success and these developing leaders are finding 
career success at TTI. The new leaders that flourish and rise through 
our development programs deliver excellent results in every area of 
the company. To feed our growth and need for management talent,  
we plan this year to hire 522 top performing university graduates in a 
highly selective process into our competitive Leadership Development 
Program (LDP) across the US and twelve other countries. Since 2007 
we have employed over 2,000 high-potential LDPs, many of these 
LDPs have progressed quickly in the TTI management ranks in 
functions like sales, product management, marketing, purchasing, 
manufacturing, engineering and finance. We are fully preparing the 
next generation of TTI leaders around the world.

11

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools

The Power Equipment business increased by 12.6% growing to US$4.5 billion accounting for 81.6% of Group turnover. The growth was 13.3%  
before foreign currency adjustments. Industry leading brands MILWAUKEE and RYOBI delivered double digit growth over the previous year. We are  
at the forefront of the fast growing cordless segment by delivering break-through technologies and expanding the broadest range of tools powered by  
our market leading battery platforms. The business generated earnings growth of US$430 million, a 13.4% increase year over year. Through strategic 
product development, technology advancement and brand portfolio management we feel highly confident that the Power Equipment business will 
continue to capture market share and expand margins. 

Sales in Power Equipment, 
Accessories and Hand Tools 

US$4.5 billion

Sales by 
Business

81.6%

Power Equipment,  
Accessories and  
Hand Tools 

18.4%
Floor Care and  
Appliances

Sales by Business (PE)

%

12

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Power Equipment,  
Accessories and 
Hand Tools 

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016

13

Industrial Power Tools

The MILWAUKEE M18 cordless system represents the ultimate 
synergy of professional grade power, extreme performance and 
superior ergonomics. The flagship of the family, M18 FUEL,  
delivers solutions that are the highest performing tools in their class. 
With the introduction of the revolutionary M18 REDLITHIUM  
HIGH DEMAND 9.0 battery pack, the MILWAUKEE brand shattered 
cordless expectations by providing long-lasting power in the most 
demanding of applications.

M18 REDLITHIUM  

HIGH DEMAND 9.0 Battery Pack

M18 FUEL SAWZALL Recip Saw  

w/ ONE-KEY

M18 FUEL 7-1/4" Circular Saw

M18 FUEL 1-9/16" SDS Max  

Rotary Hammer

14

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016M18 FUEL SURGE  

1/4" Hex Hydraulic Driver

M18 FUEL 1/2" Mid-Torque 

Impact Wrench Kit w/ Pin 

Detent

M18 FUEL 

Drywall Screw Gun

M18 FUEL Metal Cutting Circular Saw

M18 FUEL 1" SDS Plus D-Handle Rotary Hammer

M18 FUEL 7" Variable Speed Polisher

M18 FUEL 10" Dual Bevel Sliding Compound Miter Saw

M18 FUEL 16 Gauge Straight Finish Nailer

M18 FUEL 15 Gauge Finish Nailer

15

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Industrial Power Tools

In 2016, the MILWAUKEE brand burst onto the scene with  
head-turning innovations in High Output Lighting. From work  
lights to site lights and flood lights to tower lights, these cordless 
LED solutions adapt, perform, and survive the harsh jobsite 
conditions that tradesman encounter daily.

M12 ROVER LED Flood Light

M18 LED Search Light

HIGH OUTPUT LIGHTING

TM

TM

ADAPTS. PERFORMS. SURVIVES.

M12 LED Metal Flashlight

M18 RADIUS LED Compact  

Site Light w/ ONE-KEY

16

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016HIGH OUTPUT LIGHTING

TM

TM

ADAPTS. PERFORMS. SURVIVES.

M18 LED Utility Bucket Light

M18 ROCKET LED Tower Light/Charger

17

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Industrial Power Tools

High-force applications have been made easier thanks to 
MILWAUKEE’s FORCE LOGIC solutions. Designed to optimize 
ergonomics, speed and reliability, these powerful cordless tools 
reduce user fatigue and optimize workflow even in the most 
challenging environments.

FORCELOGIC™

M18 FORCE LOGIC 6T Crimper with  

D3 Grooves and Fixed BG Die

M18 FORCE LOGIC 600 MCM  

Cu/350 MCM Al Crimper

M18 FORCE LOGIC  

6 Ton Knockout Tool

M18 FORCE LOGIC Press Tool

18

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016FORCELOGIC™

TM

PLUMBING  
SOLUTIONS

M18 FORCE LOGIC Cable Cutter Kit  

with 477 ACSR Jaws 

M12 TRAPSNAKE 6" Toilet Auger

M18 FORCE LOGIC 3" Underground Cable  

Cutter w/ Wireless Remote

M12 Drain Snake 

19

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Accessories

The Power Tool Accessories business continues to push the limits  
of performance to solve jobsite problems and make users more 
productive. Constant improvements and innovations such as  
THE AX with Carbide Teeth SAWZALL Blades are the direct result  
of relentless user research and product testing. Investments in 
accessory manufacturing technology with creative designs combined 
with power tool advancements deliver game-changing solutions  
year after year.

CARBIDE TEETH

6" 5 TPI Wood THE AX with Carbide 

Teeth SAWZALL Blade

9" 5 TPI Wood THE AX with Carbide 

Teeth SAWZALL Blade

12" 5 TPI Wood THE AX with Carbide 

Teeth SAWZALL Blade

20

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016STEELHEAD ™

DIAMOND CUT-OFF

IMPACT DUTY

™

STEELHEAD ™

DIAMOND CUT-OFF

SHOCKWAVE Impact Double-Ended Power Bits

SHOCKWAVE Impact Locking Bit Holders

SHOCKWAVE Conduit Reaming Bit Holders

SHOCKWAVE RED HELIX Titanium Drill Bits

STEELHEAD Diamond Cut-Off Blades

21

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Hand Tools

In 2016, the MILWAUKEE brand continued to expand its Hand Tool 
offering by providing innovative, trade-specific solutions that deliver 
increased durability and productivity to users. As demonstrated with 
the new-to-the-world CHEATER Pipe Wrench, Milwaukee Electric  
Tool Corporation develops its products from the ground up, often 
disrupting otherwise stagnant categories in the market.

CHEATER Adaptable Pipe Wrench

22

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016REDSTICK Box Levels

REDSTICK Compact Box Levels

Steel Pipe Wrenches

Aluminum Pipe Wrenches

Work Gloves 

Magnetic Tape Measures

Chalk Reels

23

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Hand Tools

STILETTO tool sets the standard with premium Titanium hand 
tools and hammers that are 45% lighter than steel, while 
providing the same striking force and strength. In addition, 
Titanium tools produce 10X less recoil shock, which means less 
downtime due to injury, more productivity and most importantly 
less pain while getting the job done.

HART Family of products focus on delivering innovative 
signature features that provide contractors with top quality 
materials to enhance productivity. Products ranges in 
Hammers, Sledges, Tiling Tools, Pry Bars, Clamps, Mattocks 
and Utility Tools insure you have the right products to  
complete every job.

24

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Layout and Measuring Tools

As a leading brand name in the layout market, EMPIRE has 
earned true respect within the industry by delivering a broad 
range of innovative solutions year in and year out. EMPIRE 
levels are extremely readable, accurate and durable, 
exemplified in the new ULTRAVIEW LED and Digital Box 
Levels in 2016. Each level undergoes a rigorous quality 
inspection to ensure it delivers the precision and toughness 
required for unquestioned results.

TRUE BLUE Box Levels

Magnetic Digital Box Levels

10" Magnetic Torpedo Level

ULTRAVIEW LED Box Levels

10" ULTRAVIEW LED Torpedo Level

25

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Professional Tools

The AEG Power Tools brand has been delivering  
high performance tools since 1898. Over a 100 years  
later and nothing has changed, AEG Power Tools continue  
to push boundaries and innovate with a current focus on  
the cordless sector, harnessing leading lithium ion power.

18-volt Brushless 7-1/4" Circular Saw

18-volt Brushless 10" Slide Mitre Saw

18-volt Brushless 5" Grinder

18-volt Brushless 16Ga C Brad Nailer

18-volt Brushless 3-Speed Auto Tight  

18-volt Compact Brushless Hammer Drill

18-volt Brushless Impact Driver

18-volt Brushless Oil  

Impact Wrench

Pulse Driver

26

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016The AEG Power Tools brand introduces a new cordless professional grade option for end-users of 
traditional petrol outdoor products. The range of 58-volt lithium ion powered cordless products 
provide consistent peak-performance delivering petrol like power. The single 58-volt lithium  
ion battery platform adapts across the product line offering unbeatable end-user convenience,  
ease-of-use benefits for each product and enhanced productivity for professional landscaping 
projects or home gardens jobs.

58-volt 4.0Ah Battery

58-volt Brushless Hedge Trimmer

58-volt Brushless Blower

58-volt Brushless Line Trimmer

58-volt Brushless Chainsaw

58-volt Brushless Lawn Mower

27

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Consumer and Professional Tools

The RYOBI brand offers the most extensive award winning and 
innovative line of consumer focused products and accessories for 
worldwide use. The RYOBI power tool range is anchored by the 
18-volt ONE+ System of over 70 products, ranging from drills, 
drivers, saws, trimmers, sanders and outdoor products.

18-volt ONE+ QuietStrike Pulse Driver

18-volt ONE+ HVLP Inflator

18-volt ONE+ 1/4 Sheet Finish Sander

18-volt ONE+ Hybrid Transfer Pump

18-volt ONE+ Palm Router

28

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016OR

Cordless

Electric

18-volt ONE+ Hybrid Fan

18-volt ONE+ Hybrid Stereo

18-volt ONE+ Hybrid LED Cable Lights

18-volt ONE+ Brushless Belt Sander

18-volt ONE+ Brushless Hammer Drill

18-volt ONE+ Hot Glue Gun

18-volt ONE+ LED Workbench Light

18-volt ONE+ Dual Power LED Spotlight

18-volt ONE+ LED Area Light

18-volt ONE+ LED Flashlight

29

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Outdoor Products

New innovation is within reach. RYOBI Cordless Outdoor Tools put 
power and performance into the hands of every homeowner with  
our line of 18-volt and 40-volt string trimmers, hedge trimmers, 
blowers, chainsaws and lawn mowers. With high quality products  
and cutting-edge technology, RYOBI Cordless Outdoor Tools are  
shaping the future of lawn care.

18-volt ONE+ Hedge Trimmer

18-volt ONE+ Chainsaw

18-volt ONE+ Jet Fan Blower

30

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016More than 15 outdoor products make up the RYOBI 
40-volt family. Each tool is powered by a 40-volt 
Lithium-Ion battery for fade-free, long-lasting performance, 
making RYOBI 40-volt the greenest way to go petrol-less.  

40-volt Brushless String Trimmer

40-volt Jet Fan Blower

40-volt Brushless Chainsaw

40-volt Hedge Trimmer

40-volt Brushless 20" Lawn Mower

31

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016RYOBI Outdoor Products is proud to produce petrol powered products 
that withstand the test of time. Premium engines and pro-style features 
are built into each petrol powered pressure washer, string trimmer,  
hedge trimmer, blower, chain saw, and generator. This commitment to 
quality allows RYOBI brand to put top-notch lawn equipment into the 
hands of every homeowner and lawn care enthusiast. 

1600 psi Electric 

Pressure Washer

2300 Watt Inverter Generator

3000 psi Pressure Washer

HOMELITE Outdoor Tools combine value and reliability in  
every piece of electric and petrol powered lawn care equipment. 
HOMELITE products offer quality engine/motor components  
along with best-in-class features to make quick work of weekend 
lawn care.

Outdoor Products

160 mph Jet Fan Blower

2 Cycle Full Crank 

String Trimmer

32

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Garage Door Openers and Accessories

The next generation in garage door openers has arrived. The RYOBI 
Ultra-Quiet Garage Door Opener boasts a 2HPs motor, giving you 
faster openings and prolonging motor life. You can also access your 
opener by downloading the Application and even open the door during 
power outages with the ONE+ battery back-up. Also add any of the 
great plug and play accessories to maximize your garage experience.

Garage Retractable Inflator Accessory

Garage Retractable Cord Accessory

Garage Security Camera Accessory

Garage BLUETOOTH Accessory

Garage Laser Park Assist Accessory

Garage Fan Accessory

33

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Floor Care and Appliances

We are positioning the Floor Care and Appliances business for growth. Sales declined slightly for the full year, down 5.3% largely due to negative foreign 
exchange impact, particularly in our UK business, and a slight slowdown in the household appliance market. The largest segment, North America, 
returned to growth in the second half of 2016 with HOOVER, DIRT DEVIL, and ORECK brands all delivering sales increases. At US$1.0 billion in sales, 
the segment accounted for 18.4% of total Company revenue. The business improved profit margins by 10 basis points, offsetting the slight decline  
in sales. This was achieved though effective mix, the introduction of new products and the discontinuation of the lower margin products. Operational 
efficiencies were gained from global sourcing programs and the North America logistic center consolidation. The new North America headquarters in 
Charlotte, North Carolina is providing a world class environment for recruiting talent, new product innovation, cordless and technology development, 
and a creative marketing center.

Sales in Floor Care and Appliances 

US$1.0 billion 

Sales by 
Business

 18.4%

Floor Care and  
Appliances

81.6%
Power Equipment,  
Accessories and  
Hand Tools 

Sales by Business (FC)

%

34

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Floor Care and 
Appliances

35

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Floor Care and Appliances

For over 100 years, the HOOVER brand has reimagined the way  
we clean. From the introduction of the very first electric sweeper in  
1908 to the revolutionary WINDTUNNEL design, the HOOVER brand 
has relentlessly pursued innovation so today’s active families can 
more easily achieve the best possible clean.

QUEST 700

QUEST 800

LINX Signature

Cruise Cordless Stick

QUEST 1000

Power Scrub Elite Carpet Washer

Spotless

36

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016The new HOOVER REACT vacuums were designed with the needs 
of today’s active families in mind. Featuring new FLOORSENSE 
technology, the HOOVER REACT instinctively senses a change in 
floor type, automatically adjusting brush roll speed to optimize 
performance from carpet to hard surfaces. By providing the right 
speed on the right surface — along with powerful WINDTUNNEL 
SURGE suction — REACT products deliver a new generation of clean.

Compatible with HOOVER App

REACT Professional

REACT Powered Reach

REACT

REACT Quick Lift

37

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Floor Care and Appliances

The ORECK brand delivers on a whole new level of clean.  
Our powerful yet lightweight vacuums, Microfiber cleaning tools  
and HEPA Air Purification systems provide whole home cleaning 
solutions. Our focus on service has created loyal consumers  
who come back to the ORECK brand or products for all of their 
cleaning needs.

ELEVATE Control

ELEVATE Command

ELEVATE Conquer

Air Response Medium

Air Response Large

Air Response Small

Air Refresh

38

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016The DIRT DEVIL brand quickly addresses any mess with  
a portfolio of powerful and easy-to-use uprights, sticks and 
hand vacuums. With products designed to be lightweight, 
versatile with quality performance, the DIRT DEVIL brand  
has just what you need to be “Ready, Set, Done” in no time.

RAZOR VAC Plus

Power Duo

Power FLEX Pet

Power MAX Pet

Power Stick

REACH MAX

SIMPLISTIK Plus

Power Swerve

39

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Floor Care and Appliances

VAX is the UK’s No.1 floor care brand offering cleaning 
products across all the floor care categories and in 2016,  
the VAX brand has added significant cordless value share  
in the UK. The Cordless SlimVac has been the jewel in the 
crown achieving fantastic levels of retail distribution and sales. 
The VAX brand is continuing to invest in new technologies, which 
are both innovative and market leading such as the VAX BLADE 
cordless vacuum to drive the next generation of cordless products 
that truly meet the changing consumer needs. 

Arrow, Cordless SlimVac, VAX BLADE and Verso

40

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Leading the next generation of cordless vacuums, the VAX BLADE 
cordless vacuum delivers supreme cleaning performance and is 
set to revolutionise the way we clean our homes. Offering all the 
power of a corded vacuum with the convenience of a cordless, it’s 
quick, easy, and effortless. The stylish, slim line finish seamlessly 
fits within your home and the steerable technology with low 
profile design allows you to navigate around furniture with ease. 
VAX BLADE Cordless delivers maximum cleaning efficiency and is 
truly an ideal companion for smart, powerful, cordless cleaning.

VAX BLADE

41

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Floor Care and Appliances

We empower the cleaning professional with the tools to 
efficently keep the commercial environments they maintain 
– clean, safe, and productive for the patrons and employees 
that depend on them. HOOVER commercial floor cleaning 
products are idealy suited for the property management and 
hospitality markets.

M-PWR 40V Battery

Dual-Bay Charger

HUSHTONE 6Q Backpack

HUSHTONE 6Q Cordless Backpack

HUSHTONE Canister

HUSHTONE Cordless

HUSHTONE 15

42

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016ORECK is for the professional who cleans and is looking for 
Lightweight, Easy to Deploy, Quick Cleaning Tools. ORECK 
commercial products are ideal for use in food service and 
hospitality markets.

M-PWR 20V Lithium Battery and Charger

SLINGVAC

TASKVAC

HYDROVAC

43

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Financial Review
Financial Results
Result Analysis

EBIT amounted to US$450 million, an increase of 12.6% as 
compared to US$400 million in 2015.

Gross Margin

The Group’s revenue for the year amounted to US$5.5 billion, an 
increase of 8.8% as compared to US$5.0 billion in 2015. Profit 
attributable to Owners of the Company amounted to US$409 million 
as compared to US$354 million in 2015, an increase of 15.4%. Basic 
earnings per share for the year improved to US22.32 cents as 
compared to US19.37 cents in 2015.

EBITDA amounted to US$641 million, an increase of 12.5% as 
compared to US$570 million in 2015.

Gross margin improved to 36.2% as compared to 35.7% last year. 
The margin improvement was the result of new product introduction, 
category expansion, improvements in operational efficiency and 
supply chain productivity.

Operating Expenses
Total operating expenses for the year amounted to US$1,540 million 
as compared to US$1,403 million in 2015, representing 28.1% of 
turnover (2015: 27.9%). The increase was mainly due to the strategic 
spent on advertising and promotion on new products.

Investments in product design and development amounted to 
US$147 million, representing 2.7% of turnover (2015: 2.5%) 
reflecting our continuous strive for innovation. We will continue to 
invest to create breakthrough technology and deliver broad base 
end-user products and categories as these are most critical not only 
to maintain sales growth momentum but also margin expansions.

Net interest expenses for the year amounted to US$10 million as 
compared to US$13 million in 2015, a reduction of US$3 million or 
21.1%. Interest coverage, expressed as a multiple of EBITDA to total 
interest was 30.0 times (2015: 24.8 times).

44

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Management’s Discussion and AnalysisThe effective tax rate, being tax charged for the year to before tax 
profits was at 7.1% (2015: 8.5%). The Group will continue to 
leverage its global operations and fine-tune its tax plans to meet with 
tax rules changes in various jurisdictions to ensure the low effective 
tax rate is sustainable going forward.

Liquidity and Financial Resources

Shareholders’ Funds
Total shareholders’ funds amounted to US$2.4 billion as compared to 
US$2.2 billion in 2015. Book value per share was at US$1.31 as 
compared to US$1.18 last year, an increase of 11.0%.

Financial Position
The Group continued to maintain a strong financial position. As at 
December 31, 2016, the Group’s cash and cash equivalents 
amounted to US$805 million (2015: US$775 million), of which 
53.9%, 21.9%, 10.1% and 14.1% were denominated in US$, RMB, 
EUR and other currencies respectively.

The Group’s net gearing, expressed as a percentage of total net 
borrowing (excluding bank advance from factored trade receivables 
which are without recourse in nature) to equity attributable to Owners 
of the Company, was at 5.2% as compared to 13.4% last year.  
The gearing improvement is the result of very disciplined and focused 
management over working capital. The Group remains confident that 
gearing will remain low going forward.

Bank Borrowings
Long term borrowings accounted for 52.8% of total debts  
(2015: 42.9%).

The Group’s major borrowings continued to be in US Dollars and in 
HK Dollars. Borrowings are predominantly LIBOR or Hong Kong best 
lending rates based. There is a natural hedge mechanism in place as 
the Group’s major revenues are in US Dollars and currency exposure 
therefore is low. Currency, interest rate exposures, and cash 
management functions are all being closely monitored and managed 
by the Group’s treasury team.

Working Capital
Total inventory was at US$1,296 million as compared to 
US$1,190 million in 2015. Days inventory maintained at 86 days. 
The higher inventory days as compared to past years was mainly due 
to the strategic decision to carry a higher level of inventory to support 
our service level, considering our high growth momentum. The Group 
will continue to focus in managing the inventory level and improve 
inventory turns.

Trade receivable turnover days were at 62 days as compared to 
60 days last year. Excluding the gross up of the receivables factored 
which is without recourse in nature, receivable turnover days were at 
57 days as compared to 55 days last year. The Group is comfortable 
with the quality of the receivables and will continue to exercise due 
care in managing the credit exposure.

Trade payable days were 89 days as compared to 84 days in 2015.

Working capital as a percentage of sales was at 16.4% as compared 
to 17.0% in 2015.

Capital Expenditure
Total capital expenditures for the year amounted to US$190 million 
(2015: US$232 million).

Capital Commitments and Contingent Liabilities
As at December 31, 2016, total capital commitments for the 
acquisition of property, plant and equipment contracted for but not 
provided amounted to US$33 million (2015: US$21 million), and 
there were no material contingent liabilities or off balance sheet 
obligations.

45

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016We continue to strengthen our portfolio of powerful brands with a 
focused marketing approach. Brands extension into new product 
categories and under-represented markets enable us to generate 
outstanding growth. Geographic expansion will be a highlight of TTI’s 
future, our long term strategy is to aggressively build our business 
both inside and outside North America and we have spent relentless 
efforts to expand and establish presence in high potential markets 
around the world.

Introducing innovative new products is the centerpiece of our long 
term strategy. We continue to invest in building a high-speed product 
development process, enabling us to respond faster to customer 
requests and emerging opportunities, giving us a vigorous competitive 
advantage.

Our strategy in operational excellence will continue, we will drive 
further gains in efficiency across our manufacturing operations, 
supporting further margin improvement.

We continue to deploy our Leadership Development Program (LDP) 
to develop our pool of talent for the future. The LDP initiative is 
successfully feeding talent into key positions throughout the 
company.

Charge
None of the Group’s assets are charged or subject to encumbrance.

Major Customers and Suppliers
For the year ended December 31, 2016

(i) 

(ii) 

the Group’s largest customer and five largest customers 
accounted for approximately 44.8% and 55.1% respectively of 
the Group’s total revenue; and

the Group’s largest supplier and five largest suppliers 
accounted for approximately 5.3% and 18.0% respectively of 
the Group’s total purchases (not including purchases of items 
which are of a capital nature).

As far as the Directors are aware, none of the Directors, their 
associates or any shareholders who owned more than 5% of TTI’s 
share capital had any interest in the five largest customers or 
suppliers of the Group.

Human Resources
The Group employed a total of 20,642 employees as at December 31, 2016 
(2015: 20,517) in Hong Kong and overseas. Total staff cost for the year 
under review amounted to US$807 million (2015: US$727 million).

The Group regards human capital as vital for the Group’s continuous 
growth and profitability and remains committed to improving the 
quality, competence and skills of all employees. It provides job-
related training and leadership development programs throughout the 
organisation. The Group continues to offer competitive remuneration 
packages, discretionary share options and bonuses to eligible staff, 
based on the performance of the Group and the individual employee.

Corporate Strategy and Business Model
The Group is a world-class leader in design, manufacturing and 
marketing of power tools, outdoor power equipment and floor care for 
consumers, professional and industrial users in the home 
improvement, infrastructure and construction industries. We are 
committed to implementing our long term strategic plan that focuses 
on “Powerful brands, Innovative Products, Operational Excellence 
and Exceptional People”.

46

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Management’s Discussion and AnalysisReview of Operations
TTI delivered another year of record results in 2016. Total company 
revenue rose 8.8% and 9.8% before foreign currency adjustments. 
Sales in all geographic regions increased with North America 
contributing 10.3% growth, Europe growing 3.3%, and a 6.2% 
increase from the Rest of the World regions. The Power Equipment 
business had a strong year with 12.6% sales growth and the Floor 
Care and Appliance business, working through a revitalization, 
produced positive growth during the second half in North America, 
but saw full year sales decline slightly by 5.3%.

Driving the sales growth is the increasing flow of innovative new products 
backed by superior technologies, like those found in the largest DIY 
brand of RYOBI ONE+ range of power tools and outdoor products, the 
leading high performance MILWAUKEE FUEL cordless power tools, and 
advanced technology QUEST robot vacuums by the iconic HOOVER 
brand. The new product vitality is a result of a company-wide drive to 
provide first to market product innovations that make a real difference in 
end-user productivity and satisfaction. This strategic focus on developing 
innovative new products, entering new categories, and delivering market 
disruptive technologies combined with the relentless execution of our 
speed-to-market product development process is yielding consistent, 
market leading organic growth.

The Company’s gross profit margin rose for the eighth consecutive 
year from 35.7% to 36.2% from strong gains generated by new 
products and business mix, plus cost efficiencies and quality 
improvements obtained through global purchasing programs, supply 
chain productivity, lean manufacturing and manufacturing 
automation activities. Profits in all geographic regions improved over 
last year driven by sales growth, strong operational performance, and 
closely managed SG&A. Strategic spending on R&D has been 
consistently increased to drive innovation through technology and 
new product development. These core strengths of innovation, 
speed-to-market execution and operational productivity firmly provide 
TTI the competitive advantage for success. Strong management 
leadership, technology advancements, and worldwide market 
expansion are driving increased share by our global brands.

Power Equipment
The Power Equipment business increased by 12.6% growing to 
US$4.5 billion accounting for 81.6% of Group turnover. The growth 
was 13.3% before foreign currency adjustments. Industry leading 
brands MILWAUKEE and RYOBI delivered double digit growth over 
the previous year. We are at the forefront of the fast growing cordless 
segment by delivering break-through technologies and expanding the 
broadest range of tools powered by our market leading battery 
platforms. The business generated earnings growth of 
US$430 million, a 13.4% increase year over year. Through strategic 
product development, technology advancement and brand portfolio 
management we feel highly confident that the Power Equipment 
business will continue to capture market share and expand margins.

Industrial Tools
MILWAUKEE delivered another year of strong results with 19.7% 
sales growth in the global industrial tool market. The introduction of 
innovative new products, execution of effective end user and 
distribution conversion initiatives, entry into large adjacent categories, 
and a focus on commercial and operations excellence resulted in 

47

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016growth which has consistently outpaced the market. The business is 
capturing growth opportunities through the execution of the 
MILWAUKEE strategy dedicated to delivering high performance 
products targeted at professional with a system-wide product range. 
The state of the art product development process is creating 
performance-driven solutions designed with the most advanced 
technology delivering unrivalled productivity to end users. A focused 
strategy in targeting trade users, such as electrical, mechanical and 
plumbing, is increasing the commercial opportunities as the 
MILWAUKEE cordless platform continues to expand.

Power Tools
The power tool business captured market share gains across the core 
cordless power tool business by converting corded end-users to cordless 
innovation and yielding further growth through adjacent category 
expansion into cordless hydraulic tools and high output lighting as 
examples. The subcompact M12 and M18 Cordless Systems continued 
to penetrate global markets at a rapid pace with disruptive cordless 
technology, putting these battery platforms at the forefront of the 
industry. The M18 is the fastest growing system for professionals, with 
over 125 fully compatible tool solutions on a single battery platform.

MILWAUKEE brand introduced the first generation FUEL cordless 
technology in 2012. M18 FUEL leverages a breakthrough 
high performance brushless motor technology, system electronics 
and REDLITHIUM battery technology with performance capable of 
replacing the need for cords, hoses, and petrol cans from job sites. 
MILWAUKEE continues developing new innovative products 
integrating the next generation M18 FUEL technology and now offers 
over 45 M18 cordless power tools leveraging M18 FUEL technology. 
The new M18 REDLITHIUM HIGH DEMAND 9.0 Battery Pack is the 
most capable 18V battery in the industry. It is engineered for high 
power requirement applications and has full system compatibility, 
which means the HIGH DEMAND 9.0 Battery Pack will power the 
entire range of M18 tools. Leveraging the new HIGH DEMAND 9.0 
Battery Pack are a number of break-through M18 FUEL tools. The 
M18 FUEL 10” Dual Bevel Sliding Compound Miter saw was 
designed to meet the demanding needs of professionals by delivering 
corded cutting performance. The M18 FUEL 1-9/16” SDS Max Rotary 
Hammer is the first-to-market 18V SDS Max cordless solution which 
drills as fast as a corded equivalent. The M18 FUEL SURGE 1/4” Hex 
Hydraulic Driver is the quietest cordless fastening solution on the 
market. Incorporating the new FLUID-DRIVE Hydraulic Powertrain, 

the tool delivers up to 50% quieter operation, 3X less vibration and 
faster driving speeds compared to standard impacts. MILWAUKEE 
brand will continue to leverage M18 FUEL technology with new 
introductions in 2017 including a new line of M18 FUEL Outdoor 
Power Equipment, M18 FUEL Fastening Tools and the M18 FUEL 
Metal Cutting Circular Saw.

The FORCELOGIC platform continues to exceed end user 
expectations with the recent introduction of the M18 FORCELOGIC 
Press Tool, the industry’s first brushless press tool. FORCELOGIC’s 
state-of-the-art technology enables the M18 Press Tool to be the 
smallest and lightest full-sized press tool on the market, delivering 
20% more run time and 10% faster cycle time which maximizes user 
productivity. MILWAUKEE will expand the FORCELOGIC platform with 
the introduction of the M18 FORCELOGIC Overhead Cable Cutter, 
M18 FORCELOGIC 12T Crimper, and the innovative M18 
FORCELOGIC Underground Cable Cutter.

The 2017 introduction of the MILWAUKEE TICK Tool and Equipment 
Tracker could become the most versatile BLUETOOTH tracker on the 
market. With multiple attachment options and a low-profile design, 
users can glue, screw, rivet or strap the MILWAUKEE TICK Tool to 
anything. Weather, water, and dust proof ratings ensure that the 
MILWAUKEE TICK Tool and Equipment Tracker will survive every 
environment. The MILWAUKEE TICK Tool will reliably provide 
tracking beacons anytime, anywhere. End users can now receive 
notifications on low battery, service reminders, missing tools, and 
location services, all powered by the ONE-KEY application.

The cordless High Output light-emitting diode (“LED”) Lighting range, 
powered by the M12 and M18 Cordless Systems, continues to rapidly 
replace antiquated lighting solutions at job sites. The M18 ROCKET 
LED Tower Light/Charger, M18 RADIUS LED Compact Site Light with 
ONE-KEY technology, and the M18 Utility Bucket Light add to our 
stable of innovative lighting solutions for the trades. These new lights 
utilize the most advanced LED technology, versatile product designs, 
and REDLITHIUM Battery Packs to bring a new level of productivity 
to the jobsite.

Accessories
The introduction of the AX with Carbide Teeth helped our accessories 
business deliver double-digit growth in 2016. This market disruption 
was driven by combining proven SAWZALL blade attributes with 
tungsten carbide-tipping technology. These new SAWZALL blades 

48

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Management’s Discussion and Analysislast 30 times longer than traditional bi-metal blades, cut faster than 
any blade in the industry, and can cut through a large range of 
materials found in the most demanding demolition projects. As the 
range continues to expand with the continued new product 
introductions in the accessories category such as HOLE DOZER, 
SHOCKWAVE, RED HELIX, and now AX, we have significantly grown 
our distribution in our targeted geographies.

Hand Tools
The MILWAUKEE Hand Tool business delivered excellent growth 
across key categories. Tape Measures had significant growth driven 
by user-focused innovation and a continuous emphasis on quality. 
Investments in the operations have set the foundation for strategic 
growth in this large, global category. Advancements in FASTBACK 
knives and 6-in-1 Pliers, in addition to new category investment 
contributed to strong growth across the business. The MILWAUKEE 
brand Work Gloves, leveraging innovative SMARTSWIPE Technology, 
allow users to operate smart devices without removing their gloves. 
Successful Steel Storage expansion included an innovative 60” 
workbench and 30” combination unit, resulting in double-digit 
growth. The CHEATER Pipe Wrench delivered disruptive innovation 
into the large pipe wrench category leading to strong user adoption 
delivering significant growth in this segment. Leveraging the Empire 
Level technology, the new MILWAUKEE REDSTICK Box Levels 
provide industry-leading performance with best-in-class vial 
readability, frame durability, and magnet strength. The 
ALL-METAL BACKBONE feature provides the strongest, most durable 
frame ensuring long-life accuracy. SHARPSITE Vial Technology 
provides best-in-class readability with a magnified bubble and 
high-visibility vial spirit. A complete line of Compact Levels and 
Torpedo levels and new manufacturing operations set the stage for 
growth in the critical layout category. The EMPIRE brand continues to 
grow at double-digits with strong results across all channels of 
distribution and incremental growth globally. New product 
introductions included an innovative new line of compact levels and 
torpedo levels in addition to market-specific introductions to support 
global growth.

Consumer and Professional Tools

RYOBI Tools
The RYOBI brand continued its dominant global consumer DIY 
market share position with innovative new product introductions. The 
leading 18V RYOBI ONE+ cordless system of tools and batteries grew 
by well over one million new customers in 2016. The RYOBI brand, 
once again, provided the user with a wide array of new products 

applying cutting-edge technology that makes every DIY project easier. 
The vitality rate of new products continues at a fast pace. Important 
new additions to the expanding ONE+ platform include the new 
ONE+ QUIETSTRIKE Pulse Driver which produces more power and 
speed than a drill but with 50% less noise than an impact driver.  
The new ONE+ LED Workbench Light features a rotating 270º arm 
concentrating light in a given area and runs up to 9 hours on a single 
charge. The ONE+ Dual Power LED Spot Light delivers 2,500+ 
Lumens and runs on either RYOBI ONE+ batteries or a 12V 
automotive cord. In addition to creating ONE+ cordless tools with 
corded like performance, the RYOBI brand also introduced the new 
Brushless Hammer Drill and Brushless Belt Sander. The new ONE+ 
Belt Sander is first-to-market innovation providing extended runtime 
and performance while the new ONE+ Hammer Drill delivers up to 
750 in. lbs. of torque and 50% more run time so you can power 
through the toughest drilling and driving applications.

AEG Professional Tools
Sales of AEG brand professional power tools in EMEA and ANZ 
regions continue to expand through cordless new product 
introductions utilizing the AEG 18V battery system. The recent 
additions to our AEG 18V Brushless range include the 5 Amp hour 
battery pack which gives up to 6 times more runtime compared to 
the previous generation, the AEG 18V Compact Brushless Hammer 
Drill Kit, and revolutionary Brushless Oil Pulse driver, all best-in-class 
tools for the professional user. We have an exciting pipeline of new 
AEG 18V kits and promotions to enhance the success of the AEG 18V 
range and introduced more high performance tools used in 
construction such as lighting, compressors, pneumatics, circular 
saws, miter saws, and tile saws. These innovative products aimed at 
the professional user are driving the expansion of the AEG brand in 
our targeted markets.

Outdoor Products
The Outdoor Product business produced strong sales results and 
delivered market gains in 2016. The performance was generated by 
the ongoing introduction of innovative new products into the growing 
cordless RYOBI ONE+ 18V and RYOBI 40V systems plus a new AEG 
58V range of products. The continued expansion of our cordless 
outdoor product range is both taking share from traditional petrol 
products and growing the market demand with the improving benefits 
of cordless.

49

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016RYOBI Outdoor
The introduction of four new high performance RYOBI ONE+ 18V 
LITHIUM+ tools aimed at the more demanding lawn and garden 
users is successfully converting petrol users to cordless and 
solidifying the RYOBI brand as the leader in the cordless DIY 
segment. The RYOBI brand now has a full range of walk behind 
cordless lawnmowers powered by RYOBI ONE+ 18V and RYOBI 40V 
platforms that are quickly generating new demand and penetrating 
the category. These RYOBI brand new cordless outdoor products are 
fully compatible with either the RYOBI ONE+ 18V or RYOBI 40V 
battery systems. There is more opportunity to grow the cordless 
outdoor category with new products like the break-through RYOBI 
40V pressure washer.

Sales of petrol powered products and accessories are growing.  
The range of RYOBI brand gas trimmers with a powerful full 
crankshaft engine and a new family of RYOBI branded petrol chain 
saws delivering professional features and improved performance at 
consumer price points drove sales growth. The EXPAND IT line of 
RYOBI trimmer attachments have been a tremendous success and 
have been delivering double digit growth driven by great 
merchandising and marketing.

AEG Professional
AEG introduced a new cordless range of outdoor products targeted at 
professional grade end-users. The powerful AEG 58V lithium battery 
platform adapts across the product line offering unbeatable end-user 
convenience, ease-of-use benefits for each product and enhanced 
productivity for the professional landscaping projects or home 
gardening jobs. The AEG 58V lawn mower, blower, chain saw, hedge 
trimmer and line trimmer deliver exceptional performance and are 
examples of the strong product roadmap to expand the range going 
forward.

50

Floor Care and Appliances
We are positioning the Floor Care and Appliances business for 
growth. Sales declined slightly for the full year, down 5.3% largely 
due to negative foreign exchange impact, particularly in our UK 
business, and a slight slowdown in the household appliance market. 
The largest segment, North America, returned to growth in the 
second half of 2016 with HOOVER, DIRT DEVIL, and ORECK brands 
all delivering sales increases. At US$1.0 billion in sales, the segment 
accounted for 18.4% of total Company revenue. The business 
improved profit margins by 10 basis points, offsetting the slight 
decline in sales. This was achieved though effective mix, the 
introduction of new products and the discontinuation of the lower 
margin products. Operational efficiencies were gained from global 
sourcing programs and the North America logistic center 
consolidation. The new North America headquarters in Charlotte, 
North Carolina is providing a world class environment for recruiting 
talent, new product innovation, cordless and technology 
development, and a creative marketing center.

North America
The HOOVER brand is undergoing a significant revitalization of its 
product portfolio. In 2016 the first phase of new vacuums targeting 
the fast growing cordless categories were launched, laying the 
foundation for future product innovations. The high performance 
cordless stick vacs, CRUISE and LINX SIGNATURE, first generation 

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Management’s Discussion and Analysisof QUEST series cordless robots and SPOTLESS, an innovative wet 
vac with self-cleaning function, all contributed to the positive sales 
growth in the second half. The next generation of new products like 
the HOOVER REACT vacuums series featuring FLOORSENSE 
Technology using micro-sensors to identify floor surfaces, HOOVER 
Application controls, and the ONEPWR lithium battery system are set 
for 2017 introductions.

The DIRT DEVIL brand product development and merchandising 
focuses on the younger consumer demographic. We successfully 
introduced a new line of high performance upright Power Max 
vacuums and Power Stick which helped drive sales in the second 
half. The next generation product launch in 2017 will be significant 
with easy-to-maneuver lightweight cordless and corded stick vacs 
and upright vacuums. ORECK consumer brand launched ELEVATE, a 
premium range of high performance vacuums across its established 
ORECK independent store base in North America.

The HOOVER Commercial brand launched the cordless M-PWR 
backpack products with very positive market response with trials in 
large hospitality facilities and high volume end user applications. This 
launch success combined with the ORECK Commercial brand sales 
progress and an expanded commercial distribution contributed to 
double digit sales growth in this strategic segment. The new ORECK 
Commercial cordless M-PWR 20V line targeted at the hospitality and 
food service segments were launched at the end of 2016 and are 
breaking new ground for quick response, commercial cleaning 
demands with cordless technology solutions. We have expanded our 
investment in manufacturing technology at our Cookeville, Tennessee 
facility. We have already started assembly of our 40V and 20V 
commercial battery platforms and we will continue expanding our 
manufacturing output with the development of exciting new product 
under the ORECK brand.

Europe
The VAX brand had success with the early stages of launching a 
completely new cordless product range, but faced slow market 
demand in the UK and negative impact from foreign currency 
adjustments. The first product introduction was the new lightweight 
cordless SlimVac, weighing only 2.1kgs and boasting effortless 
cleaning performance for a variety of cleaning needs. This product 

delivered strong sales throughout the second half of the year.  
The new VAX BLADE cordless pole vac using our DIRECT HELIX 
TECHNOLOGY that optimizes runtime, a market leading 45 minutes, 
and cleaning performance in any orientation was successfully 
introduced in late 2016.

The new cordless DIRT DEVIL FUSION robot cleaner, offering four 
different cleaning modes, a 60-minute runtime, and an automatic 
return to docking station was recently introduced. The ranges of 
cordless stick vacs and existing robots continued strong sales 
momentum in France and key markets. The business in Central 
Europe exited low margin wholesaler markets and moved distribution 
focus to support the expansion into higher priced cordless categories. 
The DIRT DEVIL brand continues to grow its European distribution 
presence with recent launches in completely under-represented 
markets.

Purchase, Sale or Redemption of Securities
Other than 2,403,500 ordinary shares of the Company purchased 
on-market for satisfying the awarded shares granted under the 
Company’s share award scheme (details of which will be set out in 
the Corporate Governance Report to be included in this Annual 
Report), a total of 3,000,000 ordinary shares were bought back by 
the Company during the year at prices ranging from HK$27.50 to 
HK$28.60 per share. Among these bought back shares, 1,500,000 
shares were settled and cancelled during 2016 and 1,500,000 
shares were settled and cancelled in January 2017. The aggregate 
amount paid by the Company for such buy-backs cancelled during 
2016 amounting to US$5,425,000 was charged to the retained 
earnings.

The shares bought back were cancelled and accordingly the issued 
share capital of the Company was reduced.

The buy-backs of the Company’s shares during the year were 
effected by the Directors pursuant to the mandate granted by 
shareholders at the previous annual general meeting, with a view to 
benefiting shareholders as a whole by enhancing the net asset value 
per share and earnings per share of the Company.

Except as disclosed above, neither the Company nor any of its 
subsidiaries purchased, redeemed or sold any of the Company’s 
listed securities during the year.

51

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Review of Financial Information
The Audit Committee has reviewed with senior management of the 
Group and Messrs Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu the accounting 
principles and practices adopted by the Group and has discussed 
internal controls and financial reporting matters, including the review 
of Group’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended 
December 31, 2016. The Board acknowledges its responsibility for 
the preparation of the accounts of the Group.

Dividend
The Directors have recommended a final dividend of HK30.00 cents 
(approximately US3.86 cents) per share with a total of approximately 
US$70,807,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016 (2015: 
HK23.25 cents (approximately US2.99 cents)) payable to the 
Company’s shareholders whose names appear on the register of 
members of the Company on May 26, 2017. Subject to the approval 
of the shareholders at the forthcoming annual general meeting of the 
Company, the proposed final dividend is expected to be paid on or 
about June 23, 2017. This payment, together with the interim 
dividend of HK20.00 cents (approximately US2.57 cents) per share 
(2015: HK16.00 cents (approximately US2.06 cents)) paid on 
September 23, 2016, makes a total payment of HK50.00 cents 
(approximately US6.44 cents) per share for 2016 (2015: HK39.25 
cents (approximately US5.05 cents)).

Closure of Register of Members
The register of members of the Company will be closed for the 
following periods:

To ascertain members’ eligibility to attend and vote at the 2017 
Annual General Meeting, the register of members of the Company will 
be closed from May 17, 2017 to May 19, 2017, both days inclusive, 
during which period no transfers of shares will be effected. In order to 
qualify to attend and vote at the 2017 Annual General Meeting, all 
transfers accompanied by the relevant share certificates must be 
lodged with the Company’s share registrars, Tricor Secretaries 
Limited, at Level 22, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queen’s Road East,  
Hong Kong for registration not later than 4:00 p.m. on May 16, 2017.

To ascertain members’ entitlement to the final dividend, the register 
of members of the Company will be closed on May 26, 2017 when no 
transfers of shares will be effected. In order to qualify for the final 
dividend, all transfers accompanied by the relevant share certificates 
must be lodged with the Company’s share registrars, Tricor 
Secretaries Limited, at Level 22, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queen’s Road 
East, Hong Kong for registration not later than 4:00 p.m. on May 25, 
2017.

52

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Management’s Discussion and AnalysisGroup Executive Directors

Horst Julius Pudwill MSc
Chairman

Stephan Horst Pudwill
Vice Chairman

Joseph Galli Jr BSBA, MBA
Chief Executive Officer

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill, aged 72, is Chairman of TTI, a position  
he has held since he jointly founded the Group in 1985. Until 2008, 
he also served as Chief Executive Officer. As Chairman, Mr Pudwill 
focuses on the strategic planning and development of the Group and 
continues to have oversight of the operations, with the Chief Executive 
Officer reporting directly to him. Mr Pudwill has extensive experience 
in international trade, business and commerce. Mr Pudwill is also a 
director of Sunning Inc. which has an interest in the equity of the 
Company.

Mr Pudwill holds a Master of Science Degree in Engineering and a 
General Commercial Degree.

Mr Pudwill is the father of Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill, Vice Chairman 
and Group Executive Director.

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill, aged 40, joined the Group in 2004.  
Mr Pudwill was appointed as Executive Director in 2006 and 
subsequently was appointed as the Vice Chairman of the Company 
on October 1, 2016. He is mainly responsible for managing, 
improving and monitoring internal operations and identifying 
synergistic business opportunities within the Group.

Prior to joining the Group, Mr Pudwill held managerial positions at 
Daimler Chrysler AG that included product marketing and strategic 
planning for the Mercedes-Benz car group.

Mr Pudwill holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree from the University of 
British Columbia and is Mr Horst Julius Pudwill’s son.

Mr Joseph Galli Jr, aged 58, joined the Group in 2006 as the Chief 
Executive Officer of Techtronic Appliances and was appointed as 
Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director of TTI effective 
February 1, 2008. He is responsible for integrating acquisitions in 
North America and Europe, and enhancing the global sales potential 
of the Group’s strong brand portfolio. He is also responsible for 
leading the management team in the Group’s daily operation.

Mr Galli joined Black & Decker in 1980 where he worked for over  
19 years and held various high level management positions, rising to 
the position of President of Worldwide Power Tools and Accessories. 
During his tenure at Black & Decker, he was responsible for highly 
successful launch of the “DeWalt®” Brand heavy duty power tools in 
1992. After leaving Black & Decker, Mr Galli joined Amazon.com 
where he was President and Chief Operating Officer from 1999 to 
2000. From 2001 to 2005, he was a Director and Chief Executive 
Officer of Newell Rubbermaid Inc.

Mr Galli graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1980 with 
a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration. In 1987, he 
obtained an MBA from Loyola College in Baltimore, Maryland.

53

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Board of DirectorsGroup Executive Directors (continued)

Patrick Kin Wah Chan FCCA, FCPA
Operations Director

Frank Chi Chung Chan ACA, FCCA, FCPA, CPA (Practising)
Group Chief Financial Officer

Mr Patrick Kin Wah Chan, aged 57, joined the Group in 1988 and 
was appointed as Executive Director in 1990. He is now in charge of 
the manufacturing operations of the Group.

Mr Chan is currently the Vice-Chairman of the Dongguan City 
Association of Enterprises with Foreign Investment, the Chairman of 
Houjie Association of Enterprises with Foreign Investment. He is also 
the Vice-Director of Electric Tool Sub-Association of China Electrical 
Equipment Industrial Association.

Mr Chan is a fellow member of The Association of Chartered Certified 
Accountants and the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants.

Mr Frank Chi Chung Chan, aged 63, joined the Group in 1991 and 
was appointed as Executive Director in 1992. He is now responsible 
for corporate affairs and financial management of the Group.

Mr Chan is a fellow member of The Association of Chartered Certified 
Accountants and the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants, a member of The Institute of Chartered Accountants in 
England & Wales, an associate of the Taxation Institute of Hong Kong 
and qualified to practise as a Certified Public Accountant in  
Hong Kong.

Mr Chan is currently an Independent Non-executive Director of Gold 
Peak Industries (Holdings) Limited which is listed on the stock 
exchange of Hong Kong.

54

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Board of DirectorsNon-executive Directors

Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS, JP

Camille Jojo

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP, aged 64, is a Co-founder of TTI. 
Prof Chung, previously the Group Managing Director since 1985, was 
appointed as the Group Vice Chairman and Executive Director of 
the Company on April 18, 2007. He has been re-designated to 
Non-executive Director of the Company with effect from July 1, 2011.

Prof Chung holds a Doctor of Engineering Degree from the University 
of Warwick, United Kingdom and Doctor of Business Administration 
Degree from City University of Macau. He was appointed as an 
Industrial Professor by the University of Warwick, United Kingdom in 
December 2010. He was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Business 
Administration by the Lingnan University in 2015, an Honorary 
Doctor of Business Administration by the Hong Kong Polytechnic 
University in 2007 and an Honorary Doctorate Degree by the 
University of Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia in 2006. He was 
awarded the Bronze Bauhinia Star (BBS) Medal by the Hong Kong 
SAR Government on July 1, 2011. He was also appointed as Justice 
of Peace by the Hong Kong SAR Government on July 1, 2005 and 
won the Hong Kong Young Industrialists Award in 1997. In November 
2014, he was further awarded the Industrialist of the Year.

Prof Chung is highly dedicated to the advancement of industry and 
was the Chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries until 
July 5, 2013. In addition, Prof Chung holds positions on a number of 
Hong Kong SAR Government advisory committees and is also an 
active member of many social committees and associations.

Prof Chung is also an Independent Non-executive Director of TK 
Group (Holdings) Limited and Fujikon Industrial Holdings Limited. 
Prof Chung retired as Independent Non-executive Director of Kin Yat 
Holdings Limited and KFM Kingdom Holdings Limited effective 
August 25, 2014 and August 27, 2015 respectively.

Mr Camille Jojo, aged 60, was appointed as a Non-executive Director 
with effect from October 30, 2015. Mr Jojo has practiced as a lawyer 
in Hong Kong for a continuous period in excess of 30 years as a 
specialist in (i) civil litigation in the higher courts of Hong Kong,  
(ii) arbitration and (iii) regulatory. He graduated with a LL.B. Hons. 
degree from the University of Cardiff in 1977 and obtained his 
Professional Qualifying Examination Certificate from Guildford College 
of Law in 1978. He was qualified and was admitted as a solicitor of 
the Supreme Court of England and Wales in 1980, as a solicitor of 
the Supreme Court of Hong Kong in 1982 and as a solicitor and 
barrister of the Supreme Court of Victoria, Australia in 1984. Mr Jojo 
was admitted as a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators in 
November 1997. He has been a committee member of the Law 
Society Insolvency Law Committee since 1996 and, recently, has 
been granted Higher Rights of Audience as a solicitor advocate in 
respect of civil proceedings in the Hong Kong Courts. He is a Partner 
of Norton Rose Fulbright Hong Kong and head of its dispute 
resolution practice in Hong Kong.

55

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Independent Non-executive Directors

Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley, aged 72, was appointed as an 
Independent Non-executive Director in May 2001. He was formerly 
an Executive Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Ltd. Mr Langley maintains close ties with the business 
community in Hong Kong. He is currently a Non-executive Director of 
Lei Shing Hong Limited which has been delisted from the Stock 
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited on March 17, 2008. Mr Langley 
resigned as an Independent Non-executive Director of Winsor 
Properties Holdings Limited (now renamed as Vanke Property 
(Overseas) Limited) with effective from September 1, 2012 and 
retired as an Independent Non-executive Director of Dickson 
Concepts (International) Limited with effective from July 24, 2014, 
both of which companies are listed on the stock exchange of  
Hong Kong.

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann, aged 72, was appointed as an Independent 
Non-executive Director in 2004. He was General Manager of 
Dresdner Bank AG Hong Kong Branch between 1994 and 1998 and 
General Manager of Dresdner Bank AG Dubai before he retired in 
August 2004. Mr Kuhlmann is a graduate of the Banking Academy, 
Hamburg and has extensive experience in the finance and banking 
industry. Since 2005 he served as “Hamburg Ambassador” in the 
UAE to support the economic ties between Hamburg, Germany and 
the UAE. He retired from that position in May 2013 as he had moved 
his residence to Cyprus.

56

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Board of DirectorsPeter David Sullivan BS

Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Mr Peter David Sullivan, aged 68, was appointed as Independent 
Non-executive Director effective February 1, 2008. He was an 
Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of Standard Chartered 
Bank (Hong Kong) Limited. Mr Sullivan held governance 
responsibility for franchises of the Standard Chartered Group in 
Japan, Australia, the Philippines and Bohai Bank in Tianjin, China. 
He also held a number of other major appointments, including as the 
Chairman of the Hong Kong Association of Banks and the British 
Chamber of Commerce.

Mr Sullivan has been appointed as a Non-executive Director to the 
boards of Standard Bank Group and The Standard Bank of South 
Africa Limited with effect from January 15, 2013. He is the Chairman 
and Non-executive Director of Healthcare Locums plc, and a 
Non-executive Director of Winton Capital plc, AXA ASIA, AXA China 
Region Insurance Company Limited and AXA General Insurance 
Hong Kong. Mr Sullivan was an Independent Non-executive Director 
of Standard Bank plc London and SmarTone Telecommunications 
Holdings Limited, a Non-executive Director of AXA Asia Pacific 
Holdings Limited that was listed on the Australian and New Zealand 
stock exchanges.

Mr Sullivan holds a Bachelor of Science (Physical Education) Degree 
from the University of New South Wales (Wollongong).

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung, aged 75, was appointed as a Director 
in 1991 and was re-designated as an Independent Non-executive 
Director on March 30, 2012.

Mr Cheung is a graduate in law from University College London and 
has been a practising solicitor since 1970. He is qualified to practice 
law in Hong Kong and England and Wales and he is now a Consultant 
of Vincent T.K. Cheung, Yap & Co. He is also a Fellow of University 
College London and a Commandeur de l’Ordre du Mérite Agricole  
of France.

57

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Independent Non-executive Directors (continued)

Johannes-Gerhard Hesse

Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse (commonly known as Hans-Gerd 
Hesse), aged 58, was appointed as an Independent Non-executive 
Director of the Company with effect from October 1, 2016. Mr Hesse 
holds a graduate degree in Business Administration from the 
University of Cologne and has acquired extensive business 
management, strategy, leadership and corporate governance 
experience in Europe and Asia.

Mr Hesse’s professional career turned global in 1988 when joining RJ 
Reynolds International, a division of RJR Nabisco Inc., where  
he henceforth held market research and marketing positions in 
Germany, its regional headquarters in Switzerland and the Czech 
Republic. In 1996 he was appointed General Manager Hungary and 
in 1998 Regional Vice President Marketing for the Commonwealth of 
Independent States & Baltics (i.e. former Soviet Union). In 1999, JT 
International, a division of Japan Tobacco Inc. (“JTI”), appointed  
Mr Hesse as General Manager Singapore, Philippines & Australasia. 
He became Vice President & General Manager China in 2002 and 
served simultaneously as Vice Chairman on the board of directors of 
China American Cigarette Co. JV in Xiamen. In 2003 followed his 
appointment to Vice President Corporate Strategy at JTI’s global 
headquarters. In 2007, Mr Hesse joined JTI’s Executive Committee 
as Regional President Asia Pacific based in Hong Kong, holding 
concurrently governance and board director responsibilities in 
affiliates of the JTI Group of Companies in Asia. He retired from these 
positions before the end of 2010. From 2011 onwards, Mr Hesse 
started to develop his proprietary investment holding and business 
advisory company, maintaining permanent residency in Hong Kong.

58

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Board of DirectorsThe Company is committed to maintaining a high standard of 
corporate governance to enhance shareholders’ interests and 
promote sustainable development. The Company emphasizes a 
quality board of directors (the “Board”) for leadership and effective 
internal controls, transparency and accountability to all shareholders. 
The Board reviews the codes and practices of corporate governance 
and the disclosure of this Corporate Governance Report, from time to 
time, to improve the Company’s corporate governance practices with 
regards to the latest developments on all applicable laws, rules and 
regulations.

Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code
The Company has complied with all the code provisions of the 
Corporate Governance Code set out in Appendix 14 of the Rules 
Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of 
Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”) (the “Corporate Governance 
Code”) throughout the year ended December 31, 2016, save that 
none of the Directors are appointed for a specific term since they are 
subject to retirement by rotation and re-election in accordance with 
the Articles of Association of the Company. Under Article 107(A) of 
the Articles of Association of the Company, one-third of the Board 
must retire by rotation at each general meeting of the Company, and 
if eligible, offer themselves for re-election.

The Company has also voluntarily complied with a number of the 
recommended best practices set out in the Corporate Governance 
Code, aimed at further enhancement of the Company’s corporate 
governance standard as well as promotion of the best interests of 
the Company and shareholders as a whole.

Corporate Governance Policy
The Board develops, reviews and monitors the corporate governance 
policies and practices to ensure compliance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association and the laws, rules and regulatory 
requirements governing the Group. The Board performs the corporate 
governance function by, but not limited to, the following:

•  monitor and review compliance of the Model Code for Securities 

Transactions by Directors, the Code for Securities Transactions 
by Relevant Employees and other codes of conduct of the 
Company.

• 

• 

review the disclosure set out in this Corporate Governance 
Report and the compliance of the Corporate Governance Code.

review and monitor the training and continuous professional 
development of Directors and senior management.

Board of Directors
Roles and Responsibilities
The Board is responsible for leading, directing and supervising 
the Group affairs collectively with an effective corporate governance 
framework for the long term success of the Company. The principal 
responsibilities of the Board include, but are not limited to, the 
following:

• 

• 

• 

• 

consider matters covering appointment of Directors, senior 
management and external auditors, major acquisitions and 
disposals and other significant operational matters.

review and formulate overall mid-term and long-term strategy 
and direction of the Company.

review and develop the Company’s policies and practices on 
corporate governance.

control and oversee the Company’s operations and financial 
performance through the determination of the annual budget 
and continuous review of performance results.

•  monitor risks and changes in local and international business 

communities in order to enhance shareholders’ value.

Formal written procedures have been adopted by the Company, 
which are reviewed regularly, in order to govern the delegation of 
daily management responsibilities to the senior management of 
the Group, as well as to monitor the delegation and the reservation to 
the Board of specifically identified matters.

59

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Corporate Governance ReportBoard Composition
As at the date of this report, the Board consists of five Group Executive Directors, two Non-executive Directors and five Independent 
Non-executive Directors. An analysis of the current composition of the Board of the Company is set out below:

Group Executive Directors
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill (Chairman)
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill (Vice Chairman)
Mr Joseph Galli Jr (Chief Executive Officer)
Mr Kin Wah Chan (Operations Director)
Mr Chi Chung Chan (Group Chief Financial Officer)

Number of Directors

Non-executive Directors
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP
Mr Camille Jojo

Independent Non-executive Directors
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung
Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse

The biographical details and relevant relationships of the members of the Board are set out on pages 53 to 58 of this annual report. A list of 
Directors and their roles and functions are published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com) and the Stock Exchange’s website 
(www.hkexnews.hk).

60

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Corporate Governance ReportIn accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and the 
Listing Rules, Directors are subject to retirement by rotation at least 
once every three years. Any Directors appointed to fill a casual 
vacancy would be subject to election by shareholders at the next 
annual general meeting after their appointment. As at the date of this 
report, Independent Non-executive Directors and Non-executive 
Directors form a majority of the Board, and the Independent 
Non-executive Directors represent over one-third of the Board. 
Furthermore, majority of the Independent Non-executive Directors 
possesses professional qualifications or accounting or related 
financial management expertise as required under Rule 3.10 of the 
Listing Rules. All Independent Non-executive Directors meet the 
guidelines for assessing independence set out in Rule 3.13 of the 
Listing Rules. The Company has received annual confirmation of 
independence from each of the Independent Non-executive Directors 
and still considers them to be independent.

Appropriate Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance cover has been 
arranged to indemnify the Directors and Officers of the Group for 
liabilities arising out of corporate activities. The coverage and the sum 
insured under the policy are reviewed annually.

Directors’ Continuous Professional Development
All Directors are provided with regular training, updates and written 
materials on relevant laws, rules and regulations to ensure that 
Directors are aware of the latest changes in the commercial and 
regulatory environment in which the Company conducts its business. 
The Directors are encouraged to participate in various professional 
development programs especially in relation to the latest updates on 
relevant rules, regulations and compliance requirements to develop 
and refresh their knowledge and skills in order to ensure that the 
Directors’ contribution to the Board remains informed and relevant.

The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company 
have been segregated and clearly distinguished in order to promote 
balance of power and authority.

The roles of Chairman comprise, but are not limited to, the following:

• 

• 

encourage all Directors to make full and active contributions to 
the Board’s affairs and take the lead to ensure the Board acts in 
the best interests of the Company.

lead the Board to ensure it performs effectively and discharges 
its responsibilities.

•  monitor corporate governance practices and procedures and 
ensure good practices and procedures are established.

• 

ensure appropriate steps are taken to provide effective 
communication with shareholders and that the views of 
shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole.

•  make sure all Directors receive timely, accurate and reliable 

information and are properly briefed on issues arising at Board 
meetings.

The roles of Chief Executive Officer comprise, but are not limited to, 
the following:

• 

• 

provide leadership for the global management team in 
the Group’s daily operations.

enhance the global sales potential of the Company’s strong 
brand portfolio and facilitate the integration of acquisitions, 
if any.

Directors are aware that they must be able to contribute sufficient 
time and attention to the affairs of the Company before accepting his 
appointment as Director. A formal orientation, which details the 
duties and responsibilities of Directors under the Listing Rules, 
the Company’s Articles of Association, and related ordinances and 
relevant regulatory requirements of Hong Kong, is provided for each 
newly appointed Director. Presentations by external professionals and 
senior executives of the Company are also provided to ensure a 
proper understanding of the Company’s business and operations.

61

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016All Directors participate in continuous professional development as set out in code provision A.6.5 of the Corporate Governance Code. According 
to the records of training provided by each Director to the Company, the training received by all Directors in 2016 is summarized in the following 
table:

Group Executive Directors

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Non-executive Directors

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Mr Camille Jojo

Independent Non-executive Directors

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse

Type of Continuous Professional Development Programme

Updates on business 
operations, laws, 
rules and regulations 
or corporate 
governance matters

Updates on 
directors’ roles, 
functions and duties

Updates 
on accounting, 
financial or other 
professional skills

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

√

Compliance with the Codes for Securities 
Transactions
The Board has adopted the provisions of the Model Code for 
Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers set out in 
Appendix 10 of the Listing Rules (the “Model Code”). Specific 
enquiries have been made with all Directors who have confirmed that 
they have fully complied with the required standards as set out in the 
Model Code during the year ended December 31, 2016.

Another code of conduct on terms no less onerous than the Model 
Code that applies to securities transactions of all relevant employees 
who may be in possession of unpublished price sensitive information 
in relation to the Company (the “Code for Securities Transactions by 
Relevant Employees”) has also been adopted. No incident of 
non-compliance was noted by the Company during the year.

Both the Model Code and the Code for Securities Transactions by 
Relevant Employees have been published on the Company’s website 
(www.ttigroup.com).

62

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Board Meetings
At least four Board meetings are scheduled in a year, with more 
frequent meetings as and when required to facilitate the effectiveness 
of the Board. In 2016, five Board meetings were held and the 
attendance records of each Director are set out in the section headed 
“Board, Board Committee and General Meetings in 2016” at the end 
of this report.

In order to facilitate maximum attendance of Directors, Board 
meeting, Board Committee meeting and Annual General Meeting 
dates for 2017 were agreed upon at the Board meeting held in 
August 2016. The meeting agenda is set by the Chairman in 
consultation with members of the Board to include any other matters 
raised by Directors in advance. Minutes of the Board and Board 
Committee meetings with sufficient details of matters and concerns 
discussed are kept in safe custody by the Company Secretary of the 
Company (the “Company Secretary”), are sent to the Directors for 
comment and records, and are open for inspection by the Directors.

All Directors are provided with briefings and professional 
development training as necessary to ensure a proper understanding 
of the business of the Group and Directors’ responsibilities under 
statute and at common law. To facilitate informed decisions with 
sufficient details, all Directors are provided with timely, reliable and 
complete information on the affairs of the Group and have access to 
all related materials in relation to the Board’s issues. All Directors 
receive support from and access to the Company Secretary to ensure 
Board procedures and all applicable laws, rules and regulations are 
followed. Directors are also provided with access to senior 
management of the Group at their request, as well as to independent 
professional advice on performing their duties at the Company’s 
expense.

Board Committees
The Board has set up three Board Committees, namely the Audit 
Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration 
Committee, to delegate various responsibilities. Each of these Board 
Committees has specific written terms of reference which deal clearly 
with their authority and duties and have been published on the 
Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com) and the Stock Exchange’s 
website (www.hkexnews.hk).

All Board Committees are formed by a majority of Independent 
Non-executive Directors with regular attendance and active 
participation to ensure independent views and opinions contributed 
and expressed at the Board Committee meetings. The Board 

monitors and oversees the delegated authority and responsibilities 
through regular reporting by the Board Committees in relation to their 
activities involved and recommendations and decisions made. The 
attendance records of each Board Committee are set out in the 
section headed “Board, Board Committee and General Meetings in 
2016” at the end of this report.

Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is formed by three Independent Non-executive 
Directors and chaired by Mr Peter David Sullivan with other members 
being Mr Manfred Kuhlmann and Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung. Each 
member of the Audit Committee has professional qualifications or 
accounting or related financial management expertise as required 
under Rule 3.10 of the Listing Rules.

The Audit Committee aims to ensure the compliance with the Group’s 
obligations under the Listing Rules and other applicable laws and 
regulations as well as effectiveness of the risk management and 
internal control systems. It also oversees the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Company. The Audit Committee is also directly 
responsible on behalf of the Board for the selection, oversight and 
remuneration of the Company’s external auditors, the assessment of 
the independence and qualifications of the external auditors, the 
oversight of the performance of the Company’s external auditors and 
the maintenance of an appropriate relationship with the external 
auditors.

The Audit Committee held five meetings in 2016 and performed 
duties summarized below:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

review the interim and annual financial statements of the Group 
before submission to the Board.

review the Group’s accounting principles and practices, 
significant financial matters and financial reporting matters.

review the Group’s risk management and internal controls.

perform regular update and review on internal audit of the 
Group.

recommend the re-appointment of the external auditors and 
review the audit and non-audit services provided by the external 
auditors.

63

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is formed by majority of Independent 
Non-executive Directors and is chaired by Mr Vincent Ting Kau 
Cheung with the other members being Mr Christopher Patrick 
Langley OBE, Mr Manfred Kuhlmann, Mr Peter David Sullivan and 
Mr Camille Jojo (being a Non-executive Director who was appointed 
as member of the Remuneration Committee on January 17, 2017).

The Remuneration Committee aims to develop and administer a fair 
and transparent procedure for setting policy on the overall human 
resources strategy of the Group and the remuneration of Directors 
and senior management of the Group, and determine their 
remuneration packages, on the basis of their competence, merit and 
qualifications, and having regard to individual performance, 
comparable market statistics and the Company’s operating results. 
The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board 
on the remuneration packages of Executive Directors and senior 
management, including, without limitation, base salaries, benefits in 
kind, compensation payments and bonuses, and consults the 
Chairman and/or Chief Executive Officer for the proposals of other 
Executive Directors’ remuneration packages. The Remuneration 
Committee also makes recommendations to the Board on the 
remuneration of Non-executive Directors and Independent 
Non-executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee reports 
directly to the Board on its decisions or recommendations and with 
access to sufficient resources and professional advice if necessary.

The Remuneration Committee held two meetings in 2016 and 
performed, among other work, the following:

• 

• 

assess the Executive Directors’ performance and remuneration 
packages.

review and make recommendations on the existing 
Remuneration Policy for Directors and senior management.

Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr Horst Julius Pudwill 
(Chairman of the Board) with the other members being Mr Vincent 
Ting Kau Cheung, Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE and 
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann. All members except Mr Horst Julius Pudwill 
are Independent Non-executive Directors.

The Nomination Committee aims to ensure a fair and transparent 
process of Board appointments, and in particular, to assist the Board 
to identify suitably qualified candidates and make recommendations 
for consideration of the Board and shareholders. In their 
recommendations, the Nomination Committee considers factors 
including, but not limited to, ethics, professional knowledge, integrity, 
industry experience and personal skills as well as the ability to 
contribute sufficient time and attention to the Board when 
considering suitable candidates of Directors.

The Nomination Committee held two meetings in 2016. The work 
performed by the Nomination Committee in 2016, with sufficient 
resources provided by the Company and/or independent professional 
advice when necessary, included:

• 

• 

review of the structure, size and composition of the Board on a 
regular basis.

assess the independence of Independent Non-executive 
Directors.

• 

review the Board Diversity Policy and the Nomination Policy.

•  make recommendations to the Board on relevant matters 

relating to the retirement and re-election of the Directors at the 
2016 Annual General Meeting.

•  make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of 
Vice Chairman and Independent Non-executive Director.

The Board Diversity Policy was adopted in August 2013, which is 
published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com). Widening 
diversity at the Board level is essential for sustainable development of 
the Group. The Nomination Committee would consider various 
perspectives, including, but not limited to, age, gender, cultural and 
educational background, professional experience and length of 
service while reviewing the composition of the Board. An analysis of 
the current Board composition based on these objective criteria is set 
out on page 60 of this report.

64

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Corporate Governance ReportThe Group engages a global executive compensation consulting firm as an independent third party to review the compensation of the Chairman 
and the CEO. The compensation of the Group’s Chairman and CEO was assessed relative to similar positions at 20 similarly sized peer 
companies operating in the same or adjacent industries. The consultant’s assessment took into account the Group’s absolute share price, 
financial and operational performance, as well as that relative to the peer companies. As shown in the chart below, over the past five years 
(2012 to 2016) the Group has outperformed the peer companies in terms of revenue, EBIT, gross margin and stock price performance. The 
Remuneration Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board for approval the 2016 incentive payouts for the Chairman and the CEO in 
the context of this strong performance delivered by the Group.

The Company’s Share Award Scheme (the “Scheme”) was adopted on 
January 9, 2008 (the “Adoption Date”), pursuant to which any 
employee or Director (including, without limitation, any Executive, 
Non-executive or Independent Non-executive Director) of any member 
of the Group (the “Eligible Person”) will be entitled to participate. 
Unless terminated earlier by the Board in accordance with the rules 
relating to the Scheme, the Scheme is valid and effective for a term of 
10 years commencing on the Adoption Date provided that no 
contribution to the trust will be made by the Company on or after the 
10th anniversary date of the Adoption Date. Details of the Scheme were 
announced by the Company on the Adoption Date.

The Board may, from time to time, at their absolute discretion select 
any Eligible Person for participation in the Scheme as a selected 
grantee (the “Selected Grantee”) and determine the number of 
shares to be awarded or make reference to a nominal amount. The 
relevant number of shares awarded will be purchased by the trustee 
of the Scheme from the market or new shares will be subscribed for 
by the trustee at the cost of the Company and be held in trust until 
they are vested. When the Selected Grantee has satisfied all vesting 
conditions specified by the Board, the trustee of the Scheme will 
transfer the relevant vested shares together with the income derived 
therefrom (net of accrued interest) to the Selected Grantee.

The maximum number of shares which can be awarded under the 
Scheme is 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the 
Adoption Date, and the maximum number of shares which can be 
awarded to a Selected Grantee, at any one time, shall not in 
aggregate exceed 1% of the issued share capital of the Company as 
at the Adoption Date. The total issued share capital of the Company 
as at the Adoption Date is 1,501,252,152 shares.

Since the Adoption Date and up to December 31, 2016, a total of 
3,624,000 shares had been awarded under the Scheme, 
representing 0.24% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 
the Adoption Date.

Recognition of share-based payment expenses under the Scheme 
during the year was US$8,379,000. During the year ended 
December 31, 2016, a total of 1,000,000 shares had been awarded 
under the Scheme, representing 0.07% of the issued share capital of 
the Company as at the Adoption Date, to one Director of the Company. 
The total payout, including related expenses, amounted to 
US$3,761,000. During the year ended December 31, 2016, 
2,324,500 shares were transferred to the Selected Grantees upon 
vesting.

65

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016As at December 31, 2016, details of the awarded shares under the Scheme were as follows:

Name of Directors

Date of Award

Number of
awarded
shares

As at
January 1,
2016

Awarded
during
the year

Horst Julius Pudwill

Horst Julius Pudwill

Joseph Galli Jr

18.9.2014

26.9.2014

17.12.2014

Horst Julius Pudwill

15.10.2015

350,000

174,000

300,000

500,000

233,500

116,000

200,000

500,000

Joseph Galli Jr

Kin Wah Chan

Chi Chung Chan

15.10.2015

1,000,000

1,000,000

15.10.2015

15.10.2015

100,000

100,000

100,000

100,000

100,000

100,000

Stephan Horst Pudwill

15.10.2015

Number of shares

Vested
during
the year

(116,500)

(58,000)

(100,000)

(250,000)

(500,000)

(100,000)

(100,000)

(100,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Lapsed
during
the year

As at
December 31,
2016

Closing price
at the Date
of Award

Vesting Period

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

117,000

18.9.2015 - 18.9.2017

HK$22.50

58,000

26.9.2015 - 26.9.2017

HK$22.10

100,000

17.12.2015 - 17.12.2017

HK$25.85

250,000

15.10.2016 - 15.10.2017

HK$27.10

500,000

15.10.2016 - 15.10.2017

HK$27.10

—

—

—

—

15.10.2016

HK$27.10

15.10.2016

HK$27.10

15.10.2016

HK$27.10

31.8.2016

HK$30.50

Joseph Galli Jr

19.8.2016

1,000,000

—

1,000,000

(1,000,000)

Total

Notes:

2,349,500

1,000,000

(2,324,500)

— 1,025,000

(1) 

All the awarded shares are purchased from the market.

(2) 

At the end of the year, the average fair value per share is HK$29.22. The average fair value of the awarded shares is based on the average purchase cost.

(3) 

During the reporting year, a total of 2,403,500 shares were purchased at an aggregate consideration of US$9,309,000 for satisfying the awards granted pursuant to the 

Scheme.

66

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change in Director’s Emoluments
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill, an Executive Director, was appointed as 
the Vice Chairman of the Company with effect from October 1, 2016. 
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill will be entitled to the related director fee 
which has been fixed by the Board.

Mr Camille Jojo, a Non-executive Director, was appointed as member 
of the Remuneration Committee with effect from January 17, 2017. 
Mr Camille Jojo will be entitled to the Remuneration Committee fee 
and the related attendance fee which has been fixed by the Board.

Company Secretary
The Company Secretary is responsible for facilitating information flow 
and communication among Directors as well as with Shareholders 
and management of the Company. All Directors have access to the 
advice and services of the Company Secretary. The Company 
Secretary is also responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are 
followed. The Company Secretary is an employee of the Company 
and is appointed by the Board. During 2016, the Company Secretary 
undertook over 15 hours of professional training to update her skills 
and knowledge.

Accountability and Audit
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for overseeing the 
preparation of the accounts of the Group which give a true and fair 
view of the Group’s state of affairs, results and cash flows for the year.

The Board will present a balanced, clear and understandable 
assessment of annual and interim reports, other price-sensitive 
announcements and other financial disclosures required under the 
Listing Rules, and reports to the regulators as well as information 
required to be disclosed pursuant to statutory requirements.

Risk Management and Internal Controls
The Board is responsible for approving and reviewing key internal 
control policies which include the treasury management policy, 
delegated authorities, policy on market disclosure, investor and 
media relations and non-audit services, as well as key risk 
management functions which include treasury, capital management, 
insurance and legal. In order to maintain a sound and effective risk 
management and internal control systems, the Board conducts an 
annual review of the effectiveness of the risk management and 
internal control systems of the Company, which is designed to 
manage and minimize risks of failure in operational systems, and to 
provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that material 
misstatement or loss can be avoided. A whistle blowing policy (the 
“Whistle Blowing Policy”) has been adopted in order to detect and 
identify improprieties and bring the issues to the attention of the 
management, the Audit Committee as well as the Board.`

The Board, and in particular the Audit Committee, conducts a 
continuous review of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control systems that have been put in 
place. The reviews covering financial, operational, and compliance 
controls and risk management performed in 2016 included:

• 

• 

• 

• 

the scope and quality of management’s ongoing monitoring of 
risks and system of internal control and the effectiveness of 
the Company’s procedures relating to statutory and regulatory 
compliance.

the delegated authorities and organization structure as well as 
the strategic and annual operating plan.

the risk management process including formal risk assessment 
at the enterprise level upon discussions with senior 
management responsible for day-to-day management of 
significant risks.

the performance and adequacy of accounting and financial 
reporting functions.

• 

the regular internal audit updates.

The internal audit function is essential to provide an independent and 
objective assurance to the Audit Committee and the Board in 
controlling the internal business environment. The Internal Auditor 
reports periodically to the Audit Committee and meets the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee regularly. The internal audit function maintain 
independent review continuously on key business aspects in 
accordance with the annual audit plan, and report the key findings to 
the Board through the Audit Committee.

67

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Investor Relations and Shareholder 
Communications
The Company aims to maintain effective communication and 
on-going dialogue with its shareholders and investors particularly 
through the following major means:

Shareholders’ Communication Policy
The Shareholders’ Communication Policy, which primarily covers the 
current practices for communicating with shareholders and is 
published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com), was 
adopted by the Board on March 22, 2012. All the Company’s 
circulars, announcements, notices and results of general meetings, 
annual and interim reports, and webcasts of results presentations 
conducted at press conferences, which are published on the 
Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com), provide timely, efficient and 
accurate information to shareholders and investors. Essential 
information is communicated to the shareholders mainly through 
the Company’s financial reports, general meetings and the 
information published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com) 
and the Stock Exchange’s website (www.hkexnews.hk). In addition, 
the Company holds regular meetings with institutional shareholders 
and analysts and encourages shareholders to attend annual general 
meetings to communicate with Directors and management of 
the Company directly.

A Policy on Market Disclosure, Investor and Media Relations, 
published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com), ensures 
that the Company complies with its disclosure obligations under the 
Listing Rules and other applicable laws and regulations, and that all 
shareholders and potential investors have an equal opportunity to 
receive and obtain externally available information issued by 
the Company.

The procedures and internal controls for handling and disseminating 
of inside information are governed by the Model Code, the Code for 
Securities Transactions by Relevant Employees, the Whistle Blowing 
Policy, the Policy on Market Disclosure, Investor and Media Relations 
with a view to ensure compliance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association and the statutory and regulatory requirements that 
the Group is subject to.

In light of the above reviews and policies, the Board confirms that 
the Group’s risk management and internal controls systems are 
effective and adequate.

External Auditors
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, the external auditors of the Group, 
provided the following audit and non-audit services to the Group in 
2016:

Nature of Services

External Audit Services
Taxation Services
Other Services

Amount
(US$ million)

2.4
—
—

The other services provided by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu comprised 
professional services conducted under the terms of specified 
engagements.

The nature and ratio of annual fees to external auditors for audit 
services and non-audit services are subject to scrutiny by the Audit 
Committee to ensure the independence of the external auditors. All 
non-audit services from external auditors are regulated by a Policy on 
Non-Audit Services published on the Company’s website 
(www.ttigroup.com).

The Audit Committee and the external auditors of the Group meet 
twice a year without the presence of the management of the Group to 
enhance independent reporting by external auditors of the Group. In 
order to maintain effective communication with shareholders, the 
external auditors attended the 2016 Annual General Meeting to 
answer questions about the accounting policies, the auditor 
independence, the conduct of the audit and the preparation and 
content of the auditors’ report.

68

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
 
Shareholders’ Rights

Convening of extraordinary general meeting on requisition by 
shareholders
Pursuant to Article 64 of the Articles of Association of the Company 
and Sections 566-568 of the Companies Ordinance (Chapter 622 of 
the laws of Hong Kong), shareholders holding at least 5% of the total 
voting rights of all the shareholders having a right to vote at general 
meetings of the Company (the “Requisitionists”), may request the 
Directors to convene an extraordinary general meeting (“EGM”). The 
written requisition must state the general nature of the business to be 
dealt with at the EGM and must be signed by the Requisitionists and 
sent to the registered office of the Company which is currently located 
at 29/F, Tower 2, Kowloon Commerce Centre, 51 Kwai Cheong Road, 
Kwai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong for the attention of the 
Company Secretary. The requisition may consist of several 
documents in like form and may include the text of a resolution that 
may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the EGM.

If the Directors do not, within 21 days after the date on which they 
become subject to the requirement, proceed duly to convene an EGM 
for a day not more than 28 days after the date of the notice 
convening the EGM, the Requisitionists, or any of them representing 
more than one half of the total voting rights of all of them, may 
themselves convene an EGM. The EGM must be called for a date not 
more than three months after the date on which the Directors 
become subject to the requirement to call an EGM. Any reasonable 
expenses incurred by the Requisitionists by reason of the failure of 
the Directors duly to convene an EGM shall be repaid to the 
Requisitionists by the Company.

Procedure for nominating a person for election as a Director
For the detailed procedure for shareholders to nominate a person to 
stand for election as Director, please refer to the written procedure 
named “Nomination of Directors by Shareholder” which is published 
on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com).

Procedure for directing shareholders’ enquiries to the Board
The Company values feedback from shareholders on its efforts to 
promote transparency and foster investor relationships. Shareholders 
may address their comments, suggestions and/or enquires to 
the Board in writing through Investor Relations and Communication 
(contact details are set out in the section headed “Corporate 
Information” of this annual report).

Procedure for putting forward proposals at general meetings
Pursuant to Section 615 of the Companies Ordinance, shareholders 
may submit a written requisition to circulate a resolution at an annual 
general meeting (“AGM”) if they: (a) represent at least 2.5% of the 
total voting rights of all shareholders having a right to vote on the 
resolution at the AGM to which the request relates; or (b) are at least 
50 shareholders having a right to vote on the resolution at the AGM to 
which the request relates.

The written requisition must: (a) identify the resolution of which 
notice is to be given; (b) be signed by the requisitionists; (c) be sent 
to the registered office of the Company for the attention of the 
Company Secretary; and (d) be received by the Company not later 
than six weeks before the AGM to which the request relates or if later, 
the time at which notice is given of that AGM. Shareholders are 
requested to refer to Section 580 and 615 of the Companies 
Ordinance for further details.

Constitutional Document
No change has been made to the Company’s constitutional 
document during 2016. The constitutional document of the Company 
was published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com) and 
the Stock Exchange’s website (www.hkexnews.hk).

69

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Board, Board Committee and General Meetings in 2016
A summary of attendance of Board, Board Committee and general meetings in 2016 are detailed in the following table:

Meetings attended/Held in 2016

Board

Audit
Committee

Nomination
Committee

Remuneration
Committee

General
Meeting

Number of meeting(s) held during the year

Group Executive Directors

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill(1)

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Non-executive Directors

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Mr Camille Jojo(2)

Independent Non-executive Directors

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse(3)

Date(s) of meeting(s)

2

2/2

2/2

2/2

2/2

2

2/2

2/2

2/2

2/2

1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

14.3.2016

16.8.2016

14.3.2016

16.8.2016

0/0 (3)

20.5.2016

5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

1/1 (3)

15.1.2016

15.3.2016

19.5.2016

17.8.2016

5

5/5

5/5

5/5

15.1.2016

14.3.2016

19.5.2016

16.8.2016

17.11.2016

16.11.2016

Notes:

(1) 

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill was appointed as the Vice Chairman with effect from October 1, 2016.

(2) 

Mr Camille Jojo was appointed as member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from January 17, 2017.

(3) 

Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse was appointed as Independent Non-executive Director with effect from October 1, 2016.

70

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board acknowledges the overall responsibility to review and 
monitor TTI’s Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) policies 
and practices to ensure compliance with the relevant legal and 
regulatory requirements and to improve TTI’s ESG performance.

This report will discuss the ESG performance of TTI’s global business 
units, including its Asia Industrial Park in Dongguan (“AIP”); its U.S. 
subsidiaries, Techtronic Industries North America headquartered in 
Maryland and the site of the US headquarters (“TTINA”), Milwaukee 
Electric Tool Corporation headquartered in Wisconsin (“Milwaukee 
Tool”), TTI Floorcare North America headquartered in North Carolina 
(“TTIFC”), and Techtronic Industries Power Equipment 
headquartered in South Carolina (“TTIPE”); Vax Ltd. located in the 
UK; as well as the corporate headquarters in Hong Kong (“TTI”).

Conducting business in a global economy, TTI always considers the 
environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) impact of our 
business. We view the commitment to environmental, social and 
governance performance as part of our broader responsibility to our 
employees, our customers, our stakeholders, and the communities in 
which TTI operates. We are mindful about how our operations and 
products impact environmental and social aspects. Through our 
sustainability objectives and initiatives, we are vigilant of our 
responsibility to address environmental and social challenges and 
work to design, manufacture and market our products in sustainable 
ways. As part of our efforts, we continue to adopt policies, principles 
and procedures that foster these values, such as the Code of Ethics 
and Business Conduct.

Our success and our growth as a company both depend on being 
seen as an innovative employer and continuing to attract, develop 
and retain exceptionally talented people. We are taking steps to not 
only ensure that our employees have the necessary resources for 
improving their knowledge and skills, but also grow leaders from 
within by offering leadership training and other opportunities for 
growth. We also continue to engage our employees through a variety 
of social, philanthropic and wellness activities.

TTI’s ESG approach is outlined around priorities considered to be 
material to our business and how these efforts create a lasting 
impact.

Continued emissions reductions
TTI continues to reduce its emissions from energy use in our largest 
facility, located in AIP. A number of measures were taken to limit the 
impact of our operations on the environment, preventing over 21,000 
tons of carbon from being released into the atmosphere during 2016. 
Carbon emissions from electricity were reduced by 2 percent from 
2014, which is our third consecutive year of reductions in carbon 
emissions from electricity.1 Similarly, the annual carbon emissions 
from water decreased by 34 percent in 2015.2 For its efforts, AIP 
received the Dongguan Energy Saving Demonstration Site & Social 
Responsibility Honor Unit in 2016. AIP also received a Greenhouse 
Gas Verification for meeting the requirements of ISO 14064-1:2006.

TTI complies with all applicable reporting regulations. For instance, 
the use and storage of nitrogen and coil stock metal at our Milwaukee 
Tool’s Greenwood Accessory & Tool Recondition Site (“Greenwood”) 
requires the submittal of two annual reports, Tier II and Form R to 
maintain compliance with the federally regulated Emergency 
Planning and Community Right To Know Act (“EPCRA”). The EPCRA 
helps to increase the public’s knowledge and access to information 
on chemicals and hazardous materials at individual facilities, their 
uses, and releases into the environment in and around communities.

TTI endeavors to integrate resource efficiency 
and sustainability into its day-to-day 
operations, mindful of the direct environmental 
impacts from its global industry
TTI is consistently improving and taking steps to efficiently manage 
and monitor the use of resources.

AIP continues to take steps for the efficient use of resources. In 
2016, AIP made the following energy efficient changes: replacing the 
ECO water dispensers with electric water heaters in the factory and 
replacing T5 lamps with LED lights in the dormitory; replacing six sets 
of magnetic suspension air conditioners and nine sets of 
energy-saving air compressors and managing the use of water 
sources by recycling living waste water for showers and flushing 
toilets.

1 

2 

2016 Greenhouse Gas data will be collected and verified in June 2017.

2016 Greenhouse Gas data will be collected and verified in June 2017.

71

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Environmental, Social & Governance ReportTTIFC took steps to efficiently manage and monitor the use of 
resources. Its’ Cookeville, Tennessee and Glenwillow, Ohio facilities 
instituted motion sensor lighting in the warehouses and bathrooms. 
Similarly, its offices in Charlotte, North Carolina placed motion sensor 
lighting in its conference rooms, restrooms, storage closets, and 
offices. TTIFC’s Charlotte offices are also utilizing efficient water 
energy resources through the use of motion sensors for all sinks and 
toilets in restrooms.

Notably, as part of a multi-year project beginning in 2014, Milwaukee 
Tool installed a new HVAC control system to help improve efficiency 
of heating and cooling, which includes frequency drives on air 
handlers. LED fixtures were installed not only in all remodeling 
projects but also on damaged lamps and light fixtures. Additionally, 
faucets and soap dispensers were replaced throughout the facility 
with hands-free sensors.

Milwaukee Tool’s Greenwood Accessory & Tool Recondition Site 
converted its lighting to lower energy light systems. The factory high 
bay HID lights were converted to lower energy florescent T-5 lights. 
The work station and office lighting continue to be converted to T-8 
systems or LED systems. Greenwood’s HVAC system was converted 
from R-22 Freon to 407C or 410A Freon. Additionally, the low solvent 
hole saw paint was converted to a water-based paint. Similarly, the 
solvent based blade and hold saw printing inks were converted to UV 
inks.

Milwaukee Tool’s Empire division converted traditional shop lighting 
throughout the entire plant and converted the shop air system to an 
energy efficient oscillating system. Both initiatives allowed Empire to 
receive a Focus on Energy Credits for these efforts.

In early 2016, our Hong Kong office moved to a new location. 
Instituted in the move was a switch from conventional fluorescent 
tubes to LED tubes along with energy-efficient air-conditioning and 
smart multi-functional devices. This has reduced electricity 
consumption by 71% and paper consumption by 8%.

Minimizing our impact on the environment and 
natural resources
TTI continually improves initiatives to minimize our effect on the 
environment and natural resources. Known for being a leader in 
battery-powered power tools and power equipment, TTI designs and 
manufactures lithium-ion batteries. The RYOBI ONE PLUS+ batteries 
are interchangeable across a broad spectrum of RYOBI tools and 
outdoor products. Similarly, MILWAUKEE batteries are compatible 
with a broad range of products. This technology drastically reduces 
battery waste. For those batteries that are no longer useful, TTI 
partners with global organizations to help ensure that batteries are 
being recycled.

In addition to battery recycling, TTI implements various recycling 
efforts for its facilities worldwide. TTIFC currently has in place a 
robust recycling policy in Cookeville, Tennessee which minimizes the 
impact on the environment by recycling aluminum cans, paper, 
plastic bottles, electronics, motors/cords, and cardboard. Our 
Cookeville offices not only sell scrap metal, but also have a policy on 
return unit scrap recovery whenever possible. It also regrinds a large 
percentage of plastic scrap in molding and reintroduces it back into 
the molding process. Known as Refurb Operation, Cookeville is an 
active factory reconditioning facility.

Milwaukee Tool has taken steps in 2016 to recycle all old lamps, 
ballasts and electronics. Milwaukee Tool has a process in place to 
separate all metal for recycling. Employees at Milwaukee Tool are 
provided with separate recycle bins at their desks to allow for the 
recycling of paper, aluminum and plastic. Also in 2016, Milwaukee 
Tool installed a cardboard compactor and hand dryers in all of its 
bathroom remodeling projects to reduce the amount of water utilized.

All forms of scrap metal, all corrugated cardboard, scrap shipping 
materials, and all copy paper and forms are recycled throughout 
Greenwood. Greenwood also recycles certain plastics from 
reconditioned tools (HDPE, cases, and nylon handle halves). Waste 
aerosol cans are punctured and the gas or chemical removed. 
Aluminum cans are collected and donated to the local rehabilitation 
agency.

72

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Environmental, Social & Governance ReportMilwaukee Tool’s Jackson, Mississippi location uses a blue bin 
system for recycling paper in the office areas. Corrugated materials 
are separated in corrugated bins and bundled. Aluminum chips, steel 
chips and bar stock are sent for recycling, but before sending, the 
Jackson facility “cleans” chips and metals of coolants and oil. 
Jackson now utilizes T5 lighting as part of an energy conservation 
plan that was started in 2011. Jackson also contracted with an 
outside contractor to perform a compressed air analysis, which 
provides significant savings in energy usage in relation to compressed 
air.

At Empire, aluminum clippings and machining chips from the 
manufacturing process are recycled or reclaimed. Also reclaimed are 
poly ethylene byproducts from the blown film process, plastic gates 
and runners from the plastic injection molding processes and plastic 
scrap parts from the plastic injection molding processes to reduce 
waste in the landfills. Empire utilizes hot runner manifolds in the 
plastic injection molding processes to eliminate plastic waste where 
possible. Additionally, Empire reclaims heat from several 
manufacturing processes to heat the building in the winter months. 
In addition to the manufacturing processes, office paper, plastic and 
aluminum are recycled, as well as all corrugated material that is not 
used or scrapped is recycled.

On September 1, 2014, Europe introduced EU regulations 666/2013 
(“Ecodesign”) and 665/2013 (“Energy Labelling”), supplementing EU 
directives 2009/125/EC and 2010/30/EU. The regulations require 
vacuum cleaner suppliers to ensure their products meet minimum 
levels of energy efficiency and other environmental criteria, and are 
labelled to inform consumers of the actual efficiency and 
performance levels.

Vax Ltd invested significantly in research and development prior to 
the introduction of this legislation, to ensure that all new product 
designs not only met the Ecodesign criteria, but reached the highest 
levels of efficiency as displayed on the Energy Label. The result was a 
new generation of products that consume less than 1/3 of the energy 
of pre-2014 versions (~25 kWh per annum, compared with ~75 - 
~150 kWh per annum pre-2014), while simultaneously achieving a 
far greater level of cleaning ability.

The efficiency and performance of new products are confirmed by 
testing at independent, third-party laboratories, and all products are 
supplied to consumers and retailers with fully corroborated 
documentation and energy labels. Key Performance Indicators 
(“KPIs”) are identified that allow the efficiency and performance of an 
individual product to be assessed, and these KPIs are used to check 
products on the production line (often on a 100% basis), to ensure 
the ongoing compliance of all VAX vacuum cleaners.

AIP minimizes harm to the environment by reusing packing material 
and recycling industrial waste materials. Hong Kong has in place 
recycling bins in the cafeterias to encourage employee recycling.

Achieving Excellence in Human Resource 
Practices
TTI recognizes that its success is derived from its thousands of 
invaluable employees spanning the globe. TTI recruits new and 
experienced talent and encourages those individuals to realize their 
potential in an environment that values quality, innovation and 
creativity. TTI provides a wide range of programs promoting employee 
rights and benefits and also supporting the development, diversity 
and well-being of our employees.

As a global company, TTI understands the importance of establishing 
employment guidelines to ensure that those guidelines work within 
each country’s relevant laws and regulations. TTI employs 
experienced human resource personnel to manage and comply with 
laws and regulations affecting our employees.

TTI is an equal opportunity employer, providing equal employment 
opportunity for all qualified persons, without regard to race, gender, 
color, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, pregnancy, 
age, religion, military service, status as an individual with a disability 
or status as a veteran or any other status protected by applicable 
law.3 TTI’s commitment to equal employment opportunity is 
memorialized in the Employee Handbook or similar policy for each 
business unit.

This commitment also extends to our policies and procedures on 
recruiting, interviewing, hiring, assignment of responsibilities, 
transfer, promotion, training, pay, benefits, termination, working 
hours, and any other privileges, terms and conditions of employment.

3 

The expansiveness of the EEO Policy varies from country to country.

73

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Commitment to the development and training 
of employees
At TTI, we think it is important for our leadership and employees to 
learn new and continue to develop additional skills. We encourage 
the development of our leadership and employees, offering 
mandatory and optional training courses.

TTI has in place an internal online course program to assist with 
improving employees’ knowledge and skills for duties at work. Learn 
TTI is utilized for mandatory training and other optional training 
courses.

TTIFC hosts a monthly event called Floor Care University. It is an 
introduction to TTI’s floor care products and an overview of each 
business function. TTIPE conducts employee-related training on a 
variety of topics ranging from anti-harassment to product safety.

Due to continued growth, Milwaukee Tool identified the need to grow 
leaders and prepare early career candidates to take on expanded 
roles with a focus on leadership. Milwaukee Tool has consistently 
offered sales and product training courses and engineering technical 
programs, but in addition, Milwaukee Tool is placing an increased 
emphasis on leadership development and building foundational 
people management skills. Building upon the New Hire Orientation, 
Milwaukee Tool created three Lifecycles of a Leader and developed 
training classes specifically targeting emerging leaders and new 
managers. From those three classes, Milwaukee Tool designed eight 
additional classes, offering 122 sessions with participation for 2016 at 
1,543.

Protecting workers’ rights
As a corporate citizen, TTI is fundamentally committed to treating 
workers of all types with dignity and respect. TTI is specifically doing 
its part to ensure a work environment free from forced labor or 
slavery, unlawful child labor, and human trafficking. This 
commitment not only encompasses TTI employees, but also all 
suppliers must avoid participation in or consent to any practice that 
constitutes slavery or human trafficking.

TTI also has a long standing commitment to promoting and 
maintaining an environment that respects the personal rights and 
dignity of each of its employees. A Harassment Prevention, 
Anti-Discrimination, and Anti-Retaliation Policy is in place for 
providing the overall philosophy and specific approaches for 
addressing discrimination, harassment and related retaliation issues.

In Hong Kong, TTI was invited to and accepted and nominated TTI’s 
Senior Director of Human Resources in the Gender Focal Point 
Network (“GFPN”) launched by the Labour & Welfare Bureau 
(“LWB”) and the Women’s Commission (“WoC”) of the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region Government (“HKSAR”). The GFPN 
promotes gender mainstreaming, taking into consideration women’s 
and men’s perspectives and experiences into the design, 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies and programs 
so that gender-specific needs and concerns of women and men can 
be properly addressed. GFPN seeks to achieve gender equality by 
ensuring that women and men have equitable access to, a benefit 
from the resources and opportunities available in society.

Providing a safe working condition and 
protection for all TTI employees
TTI strives to provide a workplace free from injury and illness and is 
fully committed to achieving the highest standards of health and 
safety, not only in respect to its employees, but also in relation to 
visitors, contractors, and any other person who may be affected by its 
activities. TTI employs comprehensive safe work practices in all of its 
facilities that are reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure that safety 
standards are maintained across its diverse workforce.

A safe work environment is promoted through the best practices of 
safe and healthy working conditions through health and safety 
programs. These safety programs are designed to support 
compliance with all safety regulatory laws and agencies pertaining to 
our business. This program is reflected in TTI’s Health and Safety 
Policies covering implementation of relevant safety standards, routine 
safety surveys of facilities, equipment training, eyesight testing for 
DSE users, and employee training through classroom settings, Learn 
TTI and on-the-job.

As part of its duties, and to facilitate good communication and 
consultation with its employees on health and safety matters, TTI 
holds regular Health and Safety Meetings. Employees are consulted 
and encouraged to raise any issues regarding health and safety at 
work. This can be done through a manager or human resources 
representative or at a Health and Safety meeting. Policies are subject 
to yearly review and employees are notified of any changes.

74

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Environmental, Social & Governance ReportAs part of our effort to avoid, detect and eradicate slavery and human 
trafficking, TTI launched its Policy against Slavery and Human 
Trafficking. The policy requires TTI employees and suppliers to 
comply and certify compliance with TTI’s Ethics and Business 
Conduct, TTI’s Business Partner Code of Conduct, and applicable 
human resources policies. In addition, the Policy against Slavery and 
Human Trafficking meets international legal obligations, including, 
The California Transparency in Supply Chains Act, United Kingdom 
Modern Slavery Act and United Nations Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Trafficking, commitments to customers and 
best practices related to the prevention of slavery and human 
trafficking.

Aware that child labor still exists in China, TTI strictly adheres to 
China labor laws and does not hire children under the age of 16 or 
those forced into labor. TTI has made concerted efforts to monitor 
juvenile workers between the ages of 16 to 18 years old with the 
initiation of a Special Protection for Juvenile Workers in 2010. The 
Special Protection for Juvenile Workers requires:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Group HR to file juvenile workers’ records to local Labor Bureau 
according to the regulations under “Provisions on Special 
Protection for Juvenile Workers.”

Group HR to notify relevant departments of juvenile worker 
information.

Group Administrator to conduct periodical physical checks.

Distinguishing juvenile workers with an identification mark on 
their factory badge.

Prevent juvenile workers from working on dangerous operations 
as defined in the “Provisions on Special Protection for Juvenile 
Workers.”

Prevent juvenile workers from working the night shift and 
overtime not exceeding 22 hours.

Group HR to explain relevant protection requirements to juvenile 
worker and require them to sign TTI Provisions on Special 
Protection for Juvenile Workers.

During the labor shortage seasons in China, TTI hires college 
students over the age of 18. College students are not subject to the 
“Provisions on Special Protection for Juvenile Workers.”

TTI has established accountability standards and monitoring 
procedures to ensure that the requirements identified in the policies 
are followed by TTI management, TTI employees and TTI Suppliers. 
The policy designates the TTI Legal and Compliance Department as a 
point of contact for any violations. TTI operates under a No 
Retaliation policy.

Managing social risks of the supply chain
TTI expects its suppliers to abide by the same moral and ethical 
values it does in the management of the suppliers’ companies. Any 
supplier who accepts a purchase order from TTI or enters into the 
TTI Standard Master Supply Agreement must comply with the TTI 
Supplier Code of Conduct and abide by the principles stipulated in 
the Conventions of the International Labor Organization, the Universal 
Declaration on Human Rights, the guiding principles of the 
Organisation of Economic Co-Operation and Development (“OECD”) 
and other relevant and applicable principles. TTI reserves the right to 
audit the supplier’s adherence to the TTI Business Partner Code of 
Conduct. Additionally, TTI Supplier Quality Departments often 
conduct supplier training.

Along with the TTI Business Partner Code of Conduct designed to 
ensure an ethical supply chain, TTI has in place a comprehensive 
Conflict Minerals Policy, which applies not only to TTI and its related 
entities, but also throughout the supply chain. The policy establishes 
a mandatory framework for TTI and its suppliers for conducting due 
diligence and a Reasonable Country of Origin Inquiry (RCOI), 
requiring TTI’s suppliers to agree to the terms of the policy and assist 
TTI with identifying the source of any gold, tungsten, tin, or tantalum 
(together “3TG”) that has been used.

TTI’s policy first identifies high risk suppliers and makes them the 
focal point of initial data-gathering efforts in order to swiftly develop a 
substantial database containing information on key suppliers, as 
determined by reference to a supplier’s volume of business. Similarly, 
the Policy allows TTI’s suppliers conducting their own RCOI to 
prioritize by volume of business or volume of 3TG that its suppliers 
handle. TTI’s continued commitment is to produce products that are 
free from conflict minerals.

75

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Commitment to product responsibility, fair 
competition, and privacy policies
TTI is committed to product safety and to adhering to best practices 
around the world in this area. To help drive that commitment 
throughout the organization, the position of Global Product Safety 
Director was created and filled in 2016. In addition, TTI maintains 
product safety policies and procedures that are continuously 
reviewed to ensure adherence to best practices.

Established procedures and policies are in place governing 
advertising claims, Prop 65 (California) and reviews for FTC claims. 
Our legal and regulatory departments assist in compliance with 
voluntary standards.

TTI is also astutely aware of cybersecurity threats and addressing 
them through its Cybersecurity committees and policies to protect 
employee and TTI confidential information.

Preventing corrupt practices in doing business 
throughout the world
TTI is committed to conducting its business in accordance with all 
applicable laws and regulations. TTI supports a risk management 
program designed to minimize the risk of its products and systems to 
ensure TTI maintains a high level of integrity in the marketplace and 
in all business transactions. Relevant policies, including Antitrust 
Compliance and the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, and 
training that all TTI employees are required to undertake upon hire or 
once a year, are in place in order to understand their obligations 
under relevant policies and procedures governing antitrust, 
anti-corruption, anti-bribery, and fraud.

TTI continues its commitment to volunteer 
service and community investment
Throughout the year, TTI continues to engage our employees through 
social, philanthropic and wellness activities. While participation is 
voluntary, we are building upon the strong support in both time and 
financial contributions from our leadership and employees.

TTIFC has developed a company engagement platform that includes 
the creation of several committee missions to achieve employee 
investment in social, philanthropy, connectivity, and wellness. In 
2016, TTIFC completed its renovations to its new office space in 
Charlotte, North Carolina and celebrated with a Grand Opening for 
employees and families, spotlighting the new Center for Marketing 
and Innovation. Many TTIFC employees relocated to Charlotte and to 
show appreciation for those employees and families who relocated, 
TTIFC put on a “Cheers We’re All Here” event.

TTIFC also partnered with Pinky Swears and The Relatives. Pinky 
Swears’ mission is to help children with cancer and their families with 
financial and emotional support. TTIFC participated in a summer food 
drive and collected over six months’ worth of deliveries for Levine’s 
Children’s Hospital in Dilworth, North Carolina. TTIFC also sponsored 
a toy drive and had a holiday card signing activity for the children.

The Relatives is a system of resources that helps children and youth 
find shelter and support. The Relatives serves as the Safe Place 
agency for Mecklenburg County and the surrounding area, partnering 
with local businesses to ensure young people in need have access to 
immediate help and supportive resources. This year, TTIFC collected 
over six months’ worth of food and donated vacuums.

Milwaukee Tool has an established Community Impact Committee 
(“CIC”). This year, CIC donated a large amount of tools to Veteran’s 
Outreach of Wisconsin to help complete the building of 15 Tiny 
Homes, as well as to various local communities to assist in building a 
handicap accessible playground. The CIC also participated in two 
Veterans workshops by supplying all major tools for each event. The 
CIC team not only donated tools, but 70 employees spent 576 
volunteer hours working on demolition, new construction and repairs 
with Habitat for Humanity in Waukesha County.

To aid in the fight against hunger, 149 Milwaukee Tool employees 
spent a total of 572 hours processing 45,000 pounds of food and 
raising US$4,000 to support Hunger Task Force. Hunger Task Force 
and the CIC joined forces at the Wisconsin State Fair where 48 
Milwaukee Tool employees volunteered to help collect over 75,000 
pounds of food and over US$8,000 in monetary donations.

76

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Environmental, Social & Governance ReportTTINA is also a corporate sponsor for Pathfinders; Maryland’s largest 
autism organization dedicated to helping individuals, parents, and 
professionals find various resources while working to increase the 
awareness of autism spectrum disorders. Pathfinders also advocates 
for the needs of individuals with autism and their families. Employees 
participated and supported Pathfinders through various annual 
events, including a 5 km race and silent auction to promote autism 
awareness in the Baltimore area.

TTI employees and families participated in a Green Tour by Produce 
Green Foundation (“PGF”). PGF set up the first organic farm in Hong 
Kong to promote green lifestyles to the public through organic 
farming with the hope of providing safer and healthier food, while 
protecting the environment. TTI also partnered with the Hong Kong 
Cancer Fund in Dance to Support the Less Fortunate.

At AIP, TTI employees also supported the less fortunate through a 
donation of clothes. Employees engaged in a number of volunteer 
activities, including visiting senior citizens’ homes, collecting 
donations to buy school bags and clothes for children in the remote 
villages, and organizing groups to clean local public parks.

TTI encourages a healthy lifestyle
TTI maintains a core principle of providing employees with a 
balanced lifestyle. Many of TTI’s locations are equipped with a state 
of the art gym, allowing for employees to exercise before work, during 
the day or after business hours. For those facilities without an 
available on-campus gym, TTI provides those employees a yearly 
stipend for exercise classes or gym memberships.

In Milwaukee, we partner with Salus for corporate wellness, which 
includes gym orientation, fitness classes, fitness assessments, 
quarterly fitness programs, weekly email blasts, monthly “Lunch and 
Learns” that often include cooking classes, and an annual wellness 
program called Healthy Rewards. The Healthy Rewards program 
encourages employees to take care of their overall health and 
wellbeing, with a focus on preventative care. Employees earn points 
for completing various wellness activities. These points can be used 
for gift cards or other wellness-related prizes.

In addition to on-campus gyms, TTI is working to create alternative 
healthier lifestyle activities and events, which include a Step 
Challenge, a “Fun Run” participation in the American Lung 
Association’s “Fight for Air” Climb, Outward Bound Corporate 
Challenge, and Oxfam Trailwalker. TTI also sponsors sports teams 
that participate in ultimate Frisbee, basketball and soccer.

Because many of our employees have relocated to Dongguan to work 
at our AIP location, TTI promotes and encourages many activities, 
which are aimed at building a healthy lifestyle and teambuilding, 
which include the Houjie Town Half Marathon, special performances 
by the Wan Zhong Cinema, Lantern Festival activities, TTI Tug-of-War 
competition, Happy Singing Night, a TTI Talent Show, yoga classes, a 
Mother’s Day parent-child activity, Mid-Autumn Festival activities, 
model competitions, Taiji boxing classes, Opusculum & Cross Talk 
Contest, Halloween Party, badminton and chess competitions, and 
sponsorship of a dance club and a singles club.

77

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016The directors have the pleasure in presenting their annual report and 
the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 
2016.

The directors now recommend the payment of a final dividend of 
HK30.00 cents (approximately US3.86 cents) per share to the 
shareholders on the register of members on May 26, 2017, 
amounting to approximately US$70,807,000.

Principal Activities and Business Review
The Company acts as an investment holding company.

The principal activities of the principal subsidiaries and associate are 
set out in Notes 50 and 51 to the consolidated financial statements, 
respectively.

Further discussion and analysis of these activities as required by 
Schedule 5 to the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622 of the 
Laws of Hong Kong) (the “Company Ordinance”), including a fair 
review of the business and a discussion of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group, particulars of important events 
affecting the Group that have occurred, and an indication of likely 
future development in the Group’s business, can be found in the 
“Chairman’s Statement”, “Chief Executive Officer’s Message”, 
“Review of Operations”, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis”, 
“Corporate Governance Report”, “Environmental, Social and 
Governance Report” and “Financial Summary” sections of this 
Annual Report. The above sections form part of this report.

Results and Appropriations
The results of the Group for the year ended December 31, 2016 are 
set out in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income on page 92.

An interim dividend of HK20.00 cents (approximately US2.57 cents) 
per share amounting to approximately US$47,240,000 was paid to 
the shareholders during the year.

Property, Plant and Equipment
The Group continued to expand its business and during the year 
spent approximately US$2,507,000 on leasehold land and buildings, 
acquired moulds and tooling for approximately US$14,670,000, 
office equipment, furniture and fixtures for approximately 
US$15,091,000 and plant and machinery for approximately 
US$17,513,000. Details of these and other movements in the 
property, plant and equipment of the Group and the Company during 
the year are set out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial 
statements.

Share Capital
Details of movements during the year in the share capital of the 
Company are set out in Note 38 to the consolidated financial 
statements.

A total 3,000,000 ordinary shares were bought back by the Company 
during the year at prices ranging from HK$27.50 to HK$28.60 per 
share. Among these bought back shares, 1,500,000 shares were 
settled and cancelled during 2016 and 1,500,000 shares were 
settled and cancelled in January 2017. The aggregrate amount paid 
by the Company for such buy-backs cancelled during 2016 
amounting to US$5,425,000 was charged to the retained earnings.

The buy-backs of the Company’s shares during the year were 
effected by the Directors pursuant to the mandate granted by 
shareholders at the previous annual general meeting, with a view to 
benefiting shareholders as a whole by enhancing the net as value per 
share and earnings per share of the Company.

78

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Report of the DirectorsDirectors
The directors of the Company during the year and up to the date of 
this report were:

Group Executive Directors:
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill, Chairman
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill, Vice Chairman

(appointed as Vice Chairman on October 1, 2016)

Mr Joseph Galli Jr, Chief Executive Officer
Mr Kin Wah Chan
Mr Chi Chung Chan

Non-executive Directors:
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP
Mr Camille Jojo

Independent Non-executive Directors:
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung
Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse (appointed on October 1, 2016)

In accordance with Article 107(A) of the Company’s Articles of 
Association, Messrs. Horst Julius Pudwill, Joseph Galli Jr, Peter David 
Sullivan and Vincent Ting Kau Cheung will retire at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for 
re-election. In accordance with Article 98 of the Company’s Articles 
of Association, Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse, who was appointed 
during 2016, shall retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting 
and, being eligible, will offer himself for re-election.

No director proposed for re-election at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting has a service contract which is not determinable by 
the Group within one year without payment of compensation, other 
than statutory compensation.

Terms of Office of Non-executive Directors and 
Independent Non-executive Directors
The term of office for each of the Non-executive Directors and 
Independent Non-executive Directors is the period up to his 
retirement by rotation in accordance with Article 107(A) of the 
Company’s Articles of Association.

Directors of Subsidiaries
The names of all directors who have served on the boards of the 
subsidiaries of the Company during the year ended December 31, 
2016 and during the period from January 1, 2017 to the date of this 
Report are available on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com).

79

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
Directors’ and Chief Executive’s Interests
As at December 31, 2016, the interests and short positions of the 
directors and the chief executive of the Company in the shares, 
underlying shares and debentures of the Company or any of its 
associated corporations (within the meaning of Part XV of the 
Securities and Futures Ordinance (“SFO”)) which have been notified 
to the Company pursuant to Divisions 7 and 8 of Part XV of the SFO 

Name of directors

Capacity/Nature of interests

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Beneficial owner

Interests of spouse

(including interests and short positions which any such director or 
chief executive was taken or deemed to have under such provisions 
of the SFO) or as recorded in the register required to be kept under 
section 352 of the SFO or otherwise notified to the Company and The 
Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Stock Exchange”) 
pursuant to the Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors 
of Listed Issuers as set out in Appendix 10 to the Rules Governing the 
Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited 
(the “Listing Rules”) were as follows:

Interests in
shares (other
than pursuant
to equity
derivatives)(1)

Interests in
underlying
shares pursuant
to equity
derivatives(1)

Total interests
in shares/
underlying
shares

Approximate
aggregate
percentage of
interests

149,543,500(2)

398,000

366,861,294

20.00%

Interests of controlled corporation

216,159,794(3)

760,000

—

—

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Beneficial owner

4,959,500

2,250,000

41,217,000

2.25%

Beneficiary of a trust

34,007,500(4)

—

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Beneficial owner

Beneficial owner

Beneficial owner

Beneficial owner

3,183,000(5)

1,000,000

4,183,000

100,000

400,000

1,250,000

1,350,000

1,250,000

1,650,000

49,005,948

150,000

86,230,978

Interests of controlled corporation

37,075,030(6)

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Beneficial owner

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Beneficial owner

Beneficial owner

Beneficial owner

200,000

100,000

—

3,770,000

—

150,000

400,000

800,000

150,000

350,000

500,000

800,000

3,920,000

0.23%

0.07%

0.09%

4.70%

0.02%

0.03%

0.04%

0.21%

80

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Report of the Directors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:

(1) 

Interests in shares and underlying shares stated above represent long 

positions of the Company.

The interests of the directors of the Company in the underlying shares 

pursuant to equity derivatives, which were held as beneficial owner, 

represent share options granted to them respectively pursuant to the share 

option schemes adopted by the Company, details of which are separately 
disclosed in the section headed “Share Options” below. These share options 

are physically settled and unlisted.

(2) 

These included Mr Horst Julius Pudwill’s interests in 1,024,000 awarded 

shares, of which 425,000 awarded shares remained unvested under the 

Share Award Scheme as of December 31, 2016. Details of Mr Horst Julius 
Pudwill’s awarded shares are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.

(3) 

These shares were held by the following companies in which Mr Horst Julius 

Pudwill has a beneficial interest:

Share Options
Scheme adopted on May 29, 2007 (“Scheme D”)
Scheme D was adopted pursuant to a resolution passed on May 29, 
2007 for recognition of the contribution to the development and 
growth of the Group by the eligible persons. This scheme will expire 
on May 28, 2017. Under Scheme D, the Board of Directors of the 
Company may grant share options to the following eligible persons 
(and their wholly owned companies) of the Company, its subsidiaries 
and any companies in which the Group holds any equity interest, to 
subscribe for shares in the Company:

(i) 

employees; or

(ii) 

non-executive Directors (including Independent Non-executive 
Directors or Officers); or

Sunning Inc.

No. of shares

179,084,764

Cordless Industries Company Limited *

37,075,030

216,159,794

(4) 

These shares were held by a trust of which Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill is one 

of the beneficiaries.

(5) 

These included Mr Joseph Galli Jr’s interests in 2,300,000 awarded shares, 

of which 600,000 awarded shares remained unvested under the Share 
Award Scheme as of December 31, 2016. Details of Mr Joseph Galli Jr’s 

awarded shares are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.

(6) 

These shares were held by Cordless Industries Company Limited* in which 

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP has a beneficial interest.

* 

Cordless Industries Company Limited is owned as to 70% by Mr Horst 

Julius Pudwill and as to 30% by Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP.

Save as disclosed above, none of the directors and the chief 
executive of the Company was interested or had any short position in 
any shares, underlying shares or debentures of the Company and its 
associated corporations (within the meaning of Part XV of the SFO) as 
at December 31, 2016.

(iii) 

secondees; or

(iv)  business partners, agents, consultants; or

(v) 

suppliers or customers; or

(vi) 

any person or entity that provides research, development or 
other technological support; or

(vii)  shareholders.

Share options granted must be taken up within 21 days of the date of 
grant, upon payment of HK$1.00 in cash by way of consideration for 
the grant thereof. Share options may be exercised at any time, 
subject to vesting conditions from the date of grant to the tenth 
anniversary thereof. The subscription price is set at the highest of: 
the closing price of the shares on the date of offer of the share option; 
or the average closing price of shares as stated in the daily quotation 
sheets issued by the Stock Exchange for the five trading days 
immediately preceding the date of offer; or the nominal value of 
shares on the date of offer.

The maximum number of shares in respect of which share options 
may be granted under Scheme D is not permitted to exceed 30.0% 
of the issued share capital of the Company from time to time or 
10.0% of shares in issue as at the adoption date of Scheme D. No 
person shall be granted an option which exceeds 1.0% of the shares 
in issue as at the date of offer in any 12-month period up to the date 
thereof.

81

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
   
 
   
 
   
Share Options (continued)
Options may be exercised at any time after the first anniversary of the date of grant of the share option to the tenth anniversary of the date of 
grant. The exercise price is determined by the Directors of the Company, and will not be less than the higher of (i) the closing price of the 
Company’s shares on the date of grant, (ii) the average closing price of the shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of 
grant; and (iii) the nominal value of the Company’s share.

The following tables disclose movements in the Company’s share options during the year:

Date of

Share option

Outstanding

share options

granted

scheme

category

at beginning

of the year

Granted

during

the year

Exercised

during

the year

Lapsed

during

the year

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

21.5.2012

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

16.11.2009

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

11.9.2015

11.9.2015

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

11.9.2015

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

11.9.2015

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

11.9.2015

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

230,000

168,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

250,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

250,000

1,000,000

250,000

150,000

150,000

100,000

250,000

150,000

200,000

200,000

250,000

150,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

150,000

8,748,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(100,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(400,000)

(200,000)

(250,000)

—

(950,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Outstanding

at end of 

Subscription

the year

230,000

168,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

250,000

price

HK$

21.600

29.650

8.742

21.600

29.650

Exercise period

20.3.2015 

-  19.3.2024

11.9.2016 

-  10.9.2025

21.5.2013 

-  20.5.2022

20.3.2015 

-  19.3.2024

11.9.2016 

-  10.9.2025

1,000,000

6.770

16.11.2010 

-  15.11.2019

1,000,000

250,000

1,000,000

250,000

21.600

29.650

21.600

29.650

20.3.2015 

-  19.3.2024

11.9.2016 

-  10.9.2025

20.3.2015 

-  19.3.2024

11.9.2016 

-  10.9.2025

150,000

29.650

11.9.2016 

-  10.9.2025

150,000

29.650

11.9.2016 

-  10.9.2025

9.872

8.742

29.650

6.770

9.872

8.742

29.650

6.770

9.872

8.742

29.650

23.5.2012 

-  22.5.2021

21.5.2013 

-  20.5.2022

11.9.2016 

-  10.9.2025

16.11.2010 

-  15.11.2019

23.5.2012 

-  22.5.2021

21.5.2013 

-  20.5.2022

11.9.2016 

-  10.9.2025

16.11.2010 

-  15.11.2019

23.5.2012 

-  22.5.2021

21.5.2013 

-  20.5.2022

11.9.2016 

-  10.9.2025

—

250,000

150,000

200,000

200,000

250,000

150,000

—

—

—

150,000

7,798,000

Share option holders

Directors

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Total for directors

82

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Report of the Directors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share Options (continued)
The following tables disclose movements in the Company’s share options during the year: (continued)

Share option holders

Employees

Total for employees

Total for all categories

Date of

Share option

Outstanding

share options

granted

scheme

category

at beginning

of the year

Granted

during

the year

Exercised

during

the year

Lapsed

during

the year

24.8.2007

16.10.2007

7.11.2007

14.1.2008

17.4.2008

14.5.2008

30.5.2008

16.11.2009

28.12.2009

17.1.2011

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

730,000

50,000

40,000

505,000

350,000

40,000

250,000

1,570,000

30,000

20,000

3,585,000

12,333,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(60,000)

(35,000)

(40,000)

(75,000)

(100,000)

—

(250,000)

(150,000)

—

—

(710,000)

(1,660,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Outstanding

at end of

Subscription

price

HK$

8.390

8.810

8.088

7.566

7.780

7.500

7.546

6.770

6.390

Exercise period

24.8.2008 

-  23.8.2017

16.10.2008 

-  15.10.2017

7.11.2008 

-  6.11.2017

14.1.2009 

-  13.1.2018

17.4.2009 

-  16.4.2018

14.5.2009 

-  13.5.2018

30.5.2009 

-  29.5.2018

16.11.2010 

-  15.11.2019

28.12.2010 

-  27.12.2019

10.436

17.1.2012 

-  16.1.2021

the year

670,000

15,000

—

430,000

250,000

40,000

—

1,420,000

30,000

20,000

2,875,000

10,673,000

The weighted average closing price of shares immediately before the 
options grant date during 2015 was HK$29.80.

The closing price of the Company’s shares immediately before the 
date of grant was HK$29.80 in 2015.

The weighted average closing prices of the Company’s shares 
immediately before various dates during 2016 and 2015 on which 
the share options were exercised were HK$30.75 and HK$29.83 
respectively.

The fair value of the share options granted in 2015 measured at the 
date of grant was HK$7.39 per option.

Arrangements to Purchase Shares or 
Debentures
Other than as disclosed above and for satisfying the awarded shares 
granted under the Company’s share award scheme (details of which 
are set out in this Annual Report), at no time during the year was the 
Company, or any of its subsidiaries, a party to any arrangements to 
enable the directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of 
the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any 
other body corporate and neither the directors or the chief executive, 
nor any of their spouses or children under the age of 18, had any 
right to subscribe for the securities of the Company, or had exercised 
any such right.

Director’s Interests in Transactions, 
Arrangements and Contracts of Significance
No transactions, arrangements and contracts of significance, to 
which the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, was a party and in 
which a director or a connected entity of a director of the Company 
had a material interest, whether directly or indirectly, subsisted at the 
end of the year or at any time during the year.

Director’s Indemnities
Pursuant to the Company’s Articles of Association, every director of 
the Company shall be entitled to be indemnified out of the assets and 
profits of the Company against all losses or liabilities (to the fullest 
extent permitted by the Companies Ordinance) which he/she may 
sustain or incur in or about the execution of the duties of his/her 
office. The Company has arranged appropriate directors’ and officers’ 
liability insurance coverage for the directors and officers of the 
Company.

Management Contracts
No contracts concerning the management and administration of the 
whole or any substantial part of the business of the Group were 
entered into or existed during the year.

83

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Equity-linked Agreements
During the year, the Group has not entered into any equity-linked agreements.

Substantial Shareholders’ Interests
As at December 31, 2016, the interests and short positions of the following persons, other than directors and chief executive of the Company, in 
the shares, underlying shares and debentures of the Company which have been disclosed to the Company pursuant to Divisions 2 and 3 of Part 
XV of the SFO have been recorded in the register kept by the Company pursuant to section 336 of the SFO:

Name

FIL Limited (1)

FMR LLC (2)

JPMorgan Chase & Co. (3)

Schroders Plc (4)

Total interests in
shares

(L/S/LP)*

Approximate aggregate
percentage of interests

128,352,500

164,772,826

103,893,079

543,500

(L)

(L)

(L)

(S)

86,344,074

(LP)

128,565,410

(L)

7.00%

8.98%

5.67%

0.03%

4.71%

7.01%

* 

(L/S/LP) represents (Long position/Short position/Lending pool)

Notes:

(1) 

The capacity of FIL Limited in holding the 128,352,500 shares was as investment manager.

(2) 

The following is a breakdown of the interest in shares in the Company held by FMR LLC:

Name

FMR LLC

FIDELITY MANAGEMENT & RESEARCH (HONG KONG) LIMITED

FMR CO., INC

Fidelity Institutional Asset Management Trust Company (Previously 
  known as PYRAMIS GLOBAL ADVISORS TRUST COMPANY)

FIAM LLC (Previously known as PYRAMIS GLOBAL ADVISORS, LLC)

FMR INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (UK) LIMITED

FIDELITY MANAGEMENT & RESEARCH (JAPAN) LIMITED

Remarks:

Total interests in shares

Direct

Remarks

interests

(L/S/LP)

(2a)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Deemed

interests

164,772,826

5,670,000

61,433,701

31,449,881

28,816,744

35,222,500

2,180,000

Approximate

percentage of

(L/S/LP)

interests

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

8.98%

0.31%

3.35%

1.71%

1.57%

1.92%

0.12%

(2a) 

The capacity of FMR LLC in holding the 164,772,826 shares of long position was as investment manager.

(2b) 

FIDELITY MANAGEMENT & RESEARCH (HONG KONG) LIMITED, FMR CO., INC, Fidelity Institutional Asset Management Trust Company (Previously known as 

PYRAMIS GLOBAL ADVISORS TRUST COMPANY), FIAM LLC (Previously known as PYRAMIS GLOBAL ADVISORS, LLC), FMR INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 

(UK) LIMITED and FIDELITY MANAGEMENT & RESEARCH (JAPAN) LIMITED were all directly or indirectly owned by FMR LLC and by virtue of the SFO, FMR 

LLC was deemed to be interested in the shares held by these subsidiaries.

84

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Report of the Directors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Substantial Shareholders’ Interests (continued)
Notes: (continued)

(3) 

The following is a breakdown of the interests in shares in the Company held by JPMorgan Chase & Co.:

Total interests in shares

Name

JPMorgan Chase & Co.

J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp

JF Asset Management Limited

JPMorgan Asset Management (Japan) Limited

JPMorgan Asset Management (Taiwan) Limited

J.P. Morgan Investment Management Inc.

J.P. Morgan Trust Company of Delaware

J.P. Morgan Whitefriars Inc.

J.P. Morgan Securities plc

Bank One International Holdings Corporation

J.P. Morgan International Inc.

J.P. Morgan Chase International Holdings

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.

JPMorgan Asset Management (UK) Limited

J.P. Morgan Capital Financing Limited

J.P. Morgan Securities LLC

J.P. Morgan Broker-Dealer Holdings Inc

J.P. Morgan Capital Holdings Limited

JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc

JPMorgan Asset Management (Asia) Inc.

J.P. Morgan Chase (UK) Holdings Limited

JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings (UK) Limited

J.P. Morgan Overseas Capital Corporation

JPMorgan Asset Management International Limited

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.

J.P. Morgan Equity Holdings, Inc.

J.P. Morgan International Finance Limited

Direct

Remarks

interests

(L/S/LP)

(3a)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

—

—

—

399,160

12,051,500

1,238,000

623,500

363,000

7,905

1,710,167

183,500

366,368

360,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

87,125,779

67,700

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(L)

(L)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Deemed

interests

103,893,079

543,500

86,344,074

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

2,442,903

903,500

2,442,903

903,500

366,368

360,000

—

—

366,368

360,000

339,160

339,160

366,368

360,000

14,343,700

13,913,000

366,368

360,000

67,700

2,076,535

543,500

67,700

2,442,903

903,500

7,905

2,442,903

903,500

Approximate

percentage of

(L/S/LP)

interests

(L)

(S)

(LP)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

—

—

(L)

(S)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(L)

(S)

5.67%

0.03%

4.71%

0.02%

0.66%

0.07%

0.03%

0.02%

0.00%

0.09%

0.01%

0.02%

0.02%

0.13%

0.05%

0.13%

0.05%

0.02%

0.02%

4.75%

0.00%

0.02%

0.02%

0.02%

0.02%

0.02%

0.02%

0.78%

0.76%

0.02%

0.02%

0.00%

0.11%

0.03%

0.00%

0.13%

0.05%

0.00%

0.13%

0.05%

85

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Substantial Shareholders’ Interests (continued)
Notes: (continued)

Remarks:

(3a) 

JPMorgan Chase & Co. is listed on New York Stock Exchange. The capacity of JPMorgan Chase & Co. in holding the 103,893,079 shares of long position, 

543,500 shares of short position and 86,344,074 shares of lending pool respectively was as controlled corporation.

(3b) 

J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp, JF Asset Management Limited, JPMorgan Asset Management (Japan) Limited, JPMorgan Asset Management (Taiwan) Limited, J.P. 

Morgan Investment Management Inc., J.P. Morgan Trust Company of Delaware, J.P. Morgan Whitefriars Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities plc, Bank One 

International Holdings Corporation, J.P. Morgan International Inc., J.P. Morgan Chase International Holdings, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., JPMorgan Asset 

Management (UK) Limited, J.P. Morgan Capital Financing Limited, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Broker-Dealer Holdings Inc, J.P. Morgan Capital 

Holdings Limited, JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc, JPMorgan Asset Management (Asia) Inc., J.P. Morgan Chase (UK) Holdings Limited, JPMorgan 

Asset Management Holdings (UK) Limited, J.P. Morgan Overseas Capital Corporation, JPMorgan Asset Management International Limited, JPMorgan Chase 

Bank, N.A., J.P. Morgan Equity Holdings, Inc. and J.P. Morgan International Finance Limited were all directly or indirectly owned by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and 

by virtue of the SFO, JPMorgan Chase & Co. was deemed to be interested in the shares held by these subsidiaries.

(4) 

The following is a breakdown of the interests in shares in the Company held by Schroders Plc:

Name

Schroders Plc

Schroder Administration Limited

Schroder International Holdings Limited

Schroder Investment Management (Singapore) Limited

Schroder Investment Management (Hong Kong) Limited

Schroder Investment Management North America Limited

Schroder Investment Management Limited

Schroder & Co Bank AG

Schroder Wealth Holdings Limited

Schroder & Co. Limited

Schroder & Co. (Asia) Limited

Remarks:

Total interests in shares

Direct

Remarks

interests

(L/S/LP)

(4a)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

—

—

—

65,964,500

46,412,000

7,620,378

—

7,547,500

132,500

—

—

888,532

—

—

—

(L)

(L)

(L)

—

(L)

(L)

—

—

(L)

Deemed

interests

128,565,410

128,565,410

112,376,500

—

—

—

7,620,378

—

—

1,021,032

888,532

—

Approximate

percentage of

(L/S/LP)

interests

(L)

(L)

(L)

—

—

—

(L)

—

—

(L)

(L)

—

7.01%

7.01%

6.13%

3.60%

2.53%

0.42%

0.42%

0.41%

0.01%

0.06%

0.05%

0.05%

(4a) 

Schroders Plc is listed on London Stock Exchange. The capacity of Schroders Plc in holding the 128,565,410 shares of long position was as investment 

manager.

(4b) 

Schroder Administration Limited, Schroder International Holdings Limited, Schroder Investment Management (Singapore) Limited, Schroder Investment 

Management (Hong Kong) Limited, Schroder Investment Management North America Limited, Schroder Investment Management Limited, Schroder & Co Bank 

AG, Schroder Wealth Holdings Limited, Schroder & Co. Limited and Schroder & Co. (Asia) Limited were all directly or indirectly owned by Schroders Plc and by 

virtue of the SFO, Schroders Plc was deemed to be interested in the shares held by these subsidiaries.

Save as disclosed above, no other person was interested in or had a short position in the shares, underlying shares and debentures of the 
Company which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under Divisions 2 and 3 of the Part XV of the SFO as at December 31, 2016.

86

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Report of the Directors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”)
The Company has a commitment to ESG matters. A report on TTI’s 
environmental, social and governance commitment can be found on 
pages 71 to 77.

Sufficiency of Public Float
The Company has maintained a sufficient public float throughout the 
year ended December 31, 2016.

Donations
During the year, the Group made charitable and other donations 
totalling US$2,178,000.

Auditor
A resolution will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting to 
re-appoint Messrs Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu as auditor of the 
Company.

Horst Julius Pudwill
Chairman
Hong Kong

March 14, 2017

87

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016TO THE MEMBERS OF TECHTRONIC INDUSTRIES COMPANY LIMITED
創科實業有限公司
(incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability)

Opinion
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Techtronic Industries Company Limited (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries 
(collectively referred to as the “Group”) set out on pages 92 to 170, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 
December 31, 2016, and the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in 
equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a 
summary of significant accounting policies.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group as at December 
31, 2016, and of its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Hong Kong 
Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“HKICPA”) and have been 
properly prepared in compliance with the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance.

Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Hong Kong Standards on Auditing (“HKSAs”) issued by the HKICPA. Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our 
report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the HKICPA’s Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (“the Code”), and we 
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

88

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Independent Auditor’s ReportKey Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, 
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

Key Audit Matter

How our Audit Addressed the Key Audit Matter

Impairment Assessment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets with
Indefinite Useful Lives – Floor Care and Appliances Segment
We identified the impairment assessment of goodwill and other 
intangible assets for the Floor Care and Appliances segment as 
defined in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements as a key 
audit matter due to significant judgement and assumptions about 
the future performance of the segment.

As disclosed in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements, 
as at December 31, 2016 the carrying value of goodwill and 
trademarks attributable to the Floor Care and Appliances’ cash 
generating unit was US$143 million. This cash generating unit is 
profitable but has underperformed in comparison to other cash 
generating units and management has made a number of key 
assumptions and assertions to support their assessment of the 
carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets attributable to 
this cash generating unit. The key assumptions include growth 
rates, discount rates applied and the forecast performance based 
on management’s view of future business prospects. There is no 
impairment on goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful 
lives for the Floor Care and Appliances segment for the year ended 
December 31, 2016.

Capitalisation of Deferred Development Costs
We identified the capitalisation of deferred development costs as a 
key audit matter due to significant management judgement about 
the future performance and viability of the products. The Group 
conducts a significant level of development activities and has to 
apply judgement in identifying projects meeting the criteria for 
capitalisation under the requirements of accounting standards and 
to capture accurate time and cost information for those projects.

As disclosed in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements, 
as at December 31, 2016 the carrying value of deferred 
development costs was US$297 million and the additions during 
the year were US$112 million.

Our procedures in relation to management’s assessment of the 
carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets for the Floor 
Care and Appliances segment included:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Assessing the valuation methodology adopted by 
management which is disclosed in Note 20 to the 
consolidated financial statements;

Challenging the reasonableness of key assumptions based 
on our knowledge of the business and industry;

Reconciling input data used in the cash flow forecasts to 
supporting evidence, such as approved budgets and 
considering the reasonableness of those budgets;

Considering the potential impact of reasonably possible 
downside changes in these key assumptions; and

We met with the independent valuation specialist engaged 
by management to understand the assumptions they used 
in building up the discounted cash flow model.

In performing our audit procedures, we engaged our internal 
valuation specialists to assess the discount rate applied by 
benchmarking against independent data.

Our procedures in relation to capitalisation of deferred 
development costs included:

• 

• 

• 

• 

Testing management’s controls over capitalisation of 
deferred development costs;

Evaluating the nature of the type of the research and 
development expenses incurred that are capitalised into 
intangible assets;

Assessing the reasonableness of the capitalisation based 
on our knowledge of the business and industry; and

Evaluating the appropriateness of expenses capitalised, on 
a sample basis, by agreeing the material costs, overheads 
and engineers’ hours incurred to external invoices and 
internal timesheets and payroll records.

89

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Key Audit Matters (continued)
Key Audit Matter

Recoverability of Deferred Tax Assets
We identified the recoverability of deferred tax assets as a key audit 
matter due to the recognition of these assets involving judgement 
by management as to the likelihood of the realisation of these 
deferred tax assets, which is based on a number of factors, 
including whether there will be sufficient taxable profits in future 
periods to support recognition.

As disclosed in Note 41 to the consolidated financial statements, 
as at December 31, 2016 the Group has recognised US$178 
million of deferred tax assets in the consolidated statement of 
financial position.

How our Audit Addressed the Key Audit Matter

Our procedures in relation to management’s assessment about 
the recoverability of deferred tax assets included:

• 

• 

• 

Evaluating management’s assessment on the sufficiency of 
future taxable profits in support of the recognition of 
deferred tax assets by comparing management’s forecasts 
of future profits to historical results and evaluating the 
assumptions used in those forecasts;

Discussing with the group tax director the tax positions of 
the loss making entities; and

Obtaining the communications between the Group and 
taxation authorities regarding tax positions.

Other Information
The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the annual 
report, but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.

Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, 
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the 
audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material 
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of Directors and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in 
accordance with HKFRSs issued by the HKICPA and the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance, and for such internal control as the directors 
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error.

In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to 
liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion solely to you, as a body, in accordance 
with section 405 of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance, and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility towards or accept liability 
to any other person for the contents of this report. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with HKSAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users 
taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.

90

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Independent Auditor’s ReportAuditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
As part of an audit in accordance with HKSAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. 
We also:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and 
perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may 
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.

Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.

Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made 
by the directors.

Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to 
the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may 
cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.

Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether 
the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to 
express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the 
group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and 
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, 
and where applicable, related safeguards.

From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of 
the consolidated financial statements of the current year and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a 
matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the 
public interest benefits of such communication.

The engagement partner on the audit resulting in the independent auditor’s report is Martin Stuart Hills.

Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
Certified Public Accountants

Hong Kong
March 14, 2017

91

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

5,480,413

5,038,004

(3,495,234)

(3,240,365)

1,985,179

1,797,639

5,039

11,653

(794,280)

(598,492)

(147,277)

(21,793)

440,029

(31,242)

408,787

5,297

10,577

(697,598)

(577,735)

(127,788)

(23,435)

386,957

(32,814)

354,143

(7,063)

(2,804)

29,339

(82,000)

(59,724)

(30,262)

(48,484)

(81,550)

349,063

272,593

408,982

(195)

408,787

349,258

(195)

349,063

22.32

22.24

354,427

(284)

354,143

272,877

(284)

272,593

19.37

19.28

Revenue

Cost of sales

Gross profit

Other income

Interest income

Selling, distribution and advertising expenses

Administrative expenses

Research and development costs

Finance costs

Profit before taxation

Taxation charge

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive loss:

6

7

8

9

10

11

Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss, net of related income tax:

  Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations

Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:

  Fair value gain (loss) on foreign currency forward contracts in hedge accounting

  Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations

Other comprehensive loss for the year

Total comprehensive income for the year

Profit for the year attributable to:

  Owners of the Company

  Non-controlling interests

Total comprehensive income attributable to:

  Owners of the Company

  Non-controlling interests

Earnings per share (US cents)

15

  Basic

  Diluted

92

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive IncomeFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ASSETS

Non-current assets

  Property, plant and equipment

  Lease prepayments

  Goodwill

Intangible assets

Interests in associates

  Available-for-sale investments

  Derivative financial instruments

  Deferred tax assets

Current assets

Inventories

  Trade and other receivables

  Deposits and prepayments

  Bills receivable

  Tax recoverable

  Trade receivables from an associate

  Derivative financial instruments

  Held-for-trading investments

  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Current liabilities

  Trade and other payables

  Bills payable 

  Warranty provision

  Tax payable

  Derivative financial instruments

  Obligations under finance leases - due within one year

  Discounted bills with recourse

  Unsecured borrowings - due within one year

  Bank overdrafts

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Notes

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

16

17

18

19

21

22

27
41

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

27

33

34

37

29

601,230

29,581

553,194

546,636

3,667

613

9,986
178,191

538,466

32,441

553,789

520,935

6,588

495

10,544
146,064

1,923,098

1,809,322

1,296,425

1,190,331

950,882

98,638

11,190

11,694

3,540

20,199

—

849,488

117,400

27,277

8,080

2,681

22,415

1,116

804,741

774,608

3,197,309

2,993,396

1,330,807

1,160,494

54,137

80,088

100,164

2,175

2,982

93,897

403,825

1,656

37,440

75,193

110,353

14,028

2,153

77,629

588,341

3,837

2,069,731

2,069,468

1,127,578

923,928

3,050,676

2,733,250

93

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Consolidated Statement of Financial PositionAs at December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital and Reserves

  Share capital

  Reserves

Equity attributable to Owners of the Company

Non-controlling interests

Total equity

Non-current Liabilities

  Obligations under finance leases - due after one year

  Unsecured borrowings - due after one year

  Retirement benefit obligations

  Deferred tax liabilities

Notes

38

33

37

40

41

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

649,214

1,750,324

647,109

1,508,874

2,399,538

2,155,983

(606)

(411)

2,398,932

2,155,572

10,760

490,452

108,167

42,365

651,744

10,402

456,680

99,896

10,700

577,678

Total equity and non-current liabilities

3,050,676

2,733,250

The consolidated financial statements on pages 92 to 170 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on March 14, 2017 
and are signed on its behalf by:

Chi Chung Chan
Group Executive Director

Stephan Horst Pudwill
Vice Chairman

94

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Consolidated Statement of Financial PositionAs at December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attributable to Owners of the Company

Employee
share-based
compensation
reserve
US$’000

Defined
benefit
obligations
remeasurement
reserve
US$’000

Shares held
for share
award scheme
US$’000

Translation
reserve
US$’000

Share capital
US$’000

643,914

(2,441)

(26,245)

3,954

Shares issued at premium on exercise of options

3,195

At January 1, 2015

Profit (loss) for the year

Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations

Fair value loss on foreign currency

forward contracts in hedge accounting

Deferred tax liability on remeasurement of
  defined benefit obligations

Deferred tax liability on hedging reserve

Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations

Other comprehensive loss for the year

Total comprehensive income (loss)  for the year

Vesting of awarded shares

Shares for share award scheme

Recognition of equity-settled share-based payments

Final dividend – 2014

Interim dividend - 2015

At December 31, 2015

Profit (loss) for the year

Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations

Fair value gain on foreign currency

forward contracts in hedge accounting

Deferred tax liability on remeasurement of
  defined benefit obligations

Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations

Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year

Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year

Buy-back of shares

Vesting of awarded shares

Shares for share award scheme

Recognition of equity-settled share-based payments

Final dividend – 2015

Interim dividend - 2016

At December 31, 2016

Shares issued at premium on exercise of options

2,105

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

— 

— 

— 

— 

813

(7,626)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(48,484)

(48,484)

(48,484)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(637)

(813)

—

3,546

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

8,087

(9,309)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(82,000)

(82,000)

(82,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(401)

—

(8,087)

—

9,448

—

—

Attributable
to non-
controlling
interests

Share of net
assets of
subsidiaries
US$’000

(127)

(284)

—

—

—

—

—

—

Total
US$’000

1,967,026

354,143

(4,627)

(30,744)

1,823

482

(48,484)

(81,550)

Retained
profits
US$’000

1,332,125

354,427

—

—

—

—

—

—

Total
US$’000

1,967,153

354,427

(4,627)

(30,744)

1,823

482

(48,484)

(81,550)

354,427

272,877

(284)

272,593

—

—

—

—

(44,799)

(37,726)

2,558

—

(7,626)

3,546

(44,799)

(37,726)

408,982

—

—

—

—

—

408,982

—

(5,425)

—

—

—

(54,881)

(47,240)

408,982

(9,968)

29,339

2,905

(82,000)

(59,724)

349,258

1,704

(5,425)

—

(9,309)

9,448

(54,881)

(47,240)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(411)

(195)

—

—

—

—

—

(195)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

2,558

—

(7,626)

3,546

(44,799)

(37,726)

2,155,572

408,787

(9,968)

29,339

2,905

(82,000)

(59,724)

349,063

1,704

(5,425)

—

(9,309)

9,448

(54,881)

(47,240)

—

(30,744)

Hedging
reserve
US$’000

19,075

—

—

—

482

—

(30,262)

(30,262)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(3,229)

—

(4,627)

1,823

—

—

(2,804)

(2,804)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(6,033)

—

(9,968)

—

29,339

2,905

—

(7,063)

(7,063)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

29,339

29,339

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

647,109

(9,254)

(74,729)

6,050

(11,187)

1,604,027

2,155,983

649,214

(10,476)

(156,729)

7,010

(13,096)

18,152

1,905,463

2,399,538

(606)

2,398,932

95

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Consolidated Statement of Changes in EquityFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

440,029

386,957

90,544

744

101,342

9,448

(660)

21,115

139

558

21,793

11,712

(11,653)

12,902

49

(4,544)

13,836

707,354

(144,774)

(105,610)

16,087

(859)

164,456

16,697

6,517

(1,718)

(9,309)

81,898

739

90,785

3,546

(1,287)

(7,858)

38

1,091

23,435

11,311

(10,577)

8,778

—

(2,697)

20,112

606,271

(181,617)

(89,633)

4,323

1,330

60,729

(9,405)

11,497

(4,138)

(7,626)

648,841

391,731

(21,793)

(4,174)

(53,994)

—

14,694

583,574

(23,435)

(2,802)

(42,625)

111

12,249

335,229

Operating Activities

Profit before taxation

Adjustments for:

  Amortisation/write-off of intangible assets

  Amortisation of lease prepayments

  Depreciation on property, plant and equipment

  Employee share-based expense

  Fair value gain on interest rate swap

  Fair value loss (gain) on foreign currency forward contracts

  Fair value loss on held-for-trading investments

  Fair value loss on derivative financial instruments

  Finance costs

Impairment loss on trade receivables

Interest income

  Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment

  Loss on disposal of held-for-trading investments

  Reversal of impairment loss on trade receivables

  Write down of inventories

Operating cash flows before movements in working capital

Increase in inventories

Increase in trade and other receivables, deposits and prepayments

Decrease in bills receivable

(Increase) decrease in trade receivables from an associate

Increase in trade and other payables

Increase (decrease) in bills payable

Increase in warranty provision

Decrease in retirement benefit obligations

Net payment for purchase of shares for share award scheme

Cash generated from operations

Interest paid

Hong Kong Profits Tax paid

Overseas tax paid

Hong Kong Profits Tax refunded

Overseas tax refunded

Net Cash from Operating Activities

96

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Consolidated Statement of Cash FlowsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investing Activities

Acquisition of subsidiaries / a business

Additions to intangible assets

Interest received

Proceeds from disposal of held-for-trading investment

Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment

Purchase of property, plant and equipment

Repayment (advance to) from associates

Net Cash used in Investing Activities

Financing Activities

Increase in discounted bills with recourse

Dividends paid

New bank loans obtained

Proceeds from issue of shares

Repayment of bank loans

Repayment of obligations under finance leases

Buy-back of shares

Net Cash (used in) from Financing Activities

Net Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of the Year

Effect of Foreign Exchange Rate Changes

Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of the Year

Analysis of the Balances of Cash and Cash Equivalents

Represented by:

  Bank balances, deposits and cash

  Bank overdrafts

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

—

(116,277)

11,653

928

975

(71,002)

(106,790)

10,577

—

6,161

(186,604)

(159,774)

2,921

(73)

(286,404)

(320,901)

16,268

(102,121)

5,569

(82,525)

1,668,892

2,404,699

1,704

2,558

(1,819,587)

(2,234,726)

(2,653)

(5,425)

(242,922)

54,248

770,771

(21,934)

803,085

804,741

(1,656)

803,085

(2,735)

—

92,840

107,168

687,776

(24,173)

770,771

774,608

(3,837)

770,771

97

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  General

The Company is a public limited company incorporated in Hong Kong and its shares are listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong 
Limited (the “Stock Exchange”). The address of the registered office and principal place of business of the Company is 29/F, Tower 2, 
Kowloon Commerce Centre, 51 Kwai Cheong Road, Kwai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong.

The principal activities of the Group are the manufacturing and trading of electrical and electronic products.

The functional currency of the Company is United States dollars.

2.  Application of New and Amendments to Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”)

Amendments to HKFRSs that are mandatorily effective for the current year.

In the current year, the Group has applied the following amendments to HKFRSs issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants (“HKICPA”):

Amendments to HKFRS 11
Amendments to HKAS 1
Amendments to HKAS 16 and HKAS 38
Amendments to HKFRS 10,
  HKFRS 12 and HKAS 28
Amendments to HKFRSs

Accounting for Acquisition of Interest in Joint Operations
Disclosure Initiative
Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation
Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation
  Exception
Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2012 - 2014 Cycle

Except as described below, the application of the amendments to HKFRSs in the current year has had no material impact on the Group’s 
financial performance and positions for the current and prior years and/or on the disclosures set out in these consolidated financial 
statements.

New and amendments to HKFRSs issued but not yet effective
The Group has not early applied the following new and amendments to HKFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective as at 
January 1, 2016:

HKFRS 9
HKFRS 15
HKFRS 16
Amendments to HKFRS 2
Amendments to HKFRS 4
Amendments to HKAS 7
Amendments to HKAS 12
Amendments to HKFRS 10 and HKAS 28

Financial Instruments1
Revenue from Contracts with Customers and the Related Amendments1
Leases2
Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions1
Applying HKFRS 9 Financial Instruments with HKFRS 4 Insurance Contracts1
Disclosure Initiative3
Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses3
Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture4

1 

2 

3 

4 

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018.

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019.

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2017.

Effective for annual periods beginning on or a date to be determined.

Other than described below, the directors of the Company consider the application of the new and amendments to HKFRSs would not 
have any material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

98

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
2.  Application of New and Amendments to Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) (continued)

HKFRS 9 Financial Instruments
HKFRS 9 introduces new requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets, financial liabilities, general hedge 
accounting and impairment requirements for financial assets.

The key requirements of HKFRS 9 are described as follows:

• 

• 

• 

All recognised financial assets that are within the scope of HKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost or fair value. Specifically, debt investments that are held within a business model whose 
objective is to collect the contractual cash flows, and that have contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and 
interest on the principal outstanding are generally measured at amortised cost at the end of subsequent accounting periods. Debt 
instruments that are held within a business model whose objective is achieved both by collecting contractual cash flows and selling 
financial assets, and that have contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, are measured at FVTOCI. All other debt investments and 
equity investments are measured at their fair value at the end of subsequent accounting periods. In addition, under HKFRS 9, 
entities may make an irrevocable election to present subsequent changes in the fair value of an equity investment (that is not held 
for trading) in other comprehensive income, with only dividend income generally recognised in profit or loss.

In relation to the impairment of financial assets, HKFRS 9 requires an expected credit loss model, as opposed to an incurred credit 
loss model under HKAS 39. The expected credit loss model requires an entity to account for expected credit losses and changes in 
those expected credit losses at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition. In other words, it is no 
longer necessary for a credit event to have occurred before credit losses are recognised.

The new general hedge accounting requirements retain the three types of hedge accounting. However, greater flexibility has been 
introduced to the types of transactions eligible for hedge accounting, specifically broadening the types of instruments that qualify for 
hedging instruments and the types of risk components of non-financial items that are eligible for hedge accounting. In addition, the 
effectiveness test has been overhauled and replaced with the principle of an ‘economic relationship’. Retrospective assessment of 
hedge effectiveness is also no longer required. Enhanced disclosure requirements about an entity’s risk management activities have 
also been introduced.

The directors anticipate that the adoption of HKFRS 9 in the future may have an impact on amounts reported in respect of the Group’s 
financial assets, such as the recognition of credit losses based on the expected loss model. However, it is not practicable to provide a 
reasonable estimate of that effect until a detailed review has been completed.

99

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20162.  Application of New and Amendments to Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) (continued)

HKFRS 16 Leases
HKFRS 16 introduces a comprehensive model for the identification of lease arrangements and accounting treatments for both lessors and 
lessees. HKFRS 16 will supersede HKAS 17 Leases and the related interpretations when it becomes effective.

HKFRS 16 distinguishes lease and service contracts on the basis of whether an identified asset is controlled by a customer. Distinctions of 
operating leases and finance leases are removed for lessee accounting, and is replaced by a model where a right-of-use asset and a 
corresponding liability have to be recognised for all leases by lessees, except for short-term leases and leases of low value assets.

The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost (subject to certain exceptions) less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses, adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liability. The lease liability is initially measured at the 
present value of the lease payments that are not paid at that date. Subsequently, the lease liability is adjusted for interest and lease 
payments, as well as the impact of lease modifications, amongst others. For the classification of cash flows, the Group currently presents 
upfront prepaid lease payments as investing cash flows in relation to leasehold land for owned use and those classified as investment 
properties while other operating lease payments are presented as operating cash flows. Under the HKFRS 16, lease payments in relation 
to a lease liability will be allocated into a principal and an interest portion which will be presented as financing cash flows.

Under HKAS 17, the Group has already recognised an asset and a related finance lease liability where applicable, for a finance lease 
arrangement and prepaid lease payments for leasehold land where the Group is a lessee. The application of HKFRS 16 may result in 
potential changes in classification of these assets depending on whether the Group presents right-of-use assets separately or within the 
same line item at which the corresponding underlying assets would be presented if they were owned.

In contrast to lessee accounting, HKFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in HKAS 17, and continues 
to require a lessor to classify a lease either as an operating lease or a finance lease. Furthermore, extensive disclosures are required by 
HKFRS 16.

As at December 31, 2016, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of US$255,060,000 as disclosed in Note 43. A 
preliminary assessment indicates that these arrangements may meet the definition of a lease under HKFRS 16, and hence the Group will 
recognise a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability in respect of all these leases unless they qualify for low value or short-term 
leases upon the application of HKFRS 16. In addition, the application of new requirements may result changes in measurement, 
presentation and disclosure as indicated above. However, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the financial effect until 
the directors of the Company complete a detailed review.

Amendment to HKAS 7 Disclosure Initiative
The amendments require an entity to provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising 
from financing activities including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes. Specially, the amendments require the 
following changes in liabilities arising from financing activities to be disclosed: (i) changes from financing cash flows; (ii) changes arising 
from obtaining or losing control of subsidiaries or other businesses; (iii) the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates; (iv) changes in fair 
values; and (v) other changes.

The amendments apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 with earlier application permitted. The 
application of the amendments will result in additional disclosures of the Group’s financing activities, specifically a reconciliation between 
the opening and closing balances in the consolidated statement of financial position for liabilities arising from financing activities will be 
provided on application.

100

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20163.  Significant Accounting Policies

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with HKFRSs issued by the HKICPA. In addition, the 
consolidated financial statements include applicable disclosures required by the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock 
Exchange (the “Listing Rules”) and by the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (“CO”).

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments, which are 
measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period, as explained in the accounting policies set out below.

Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods.

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation 
technique. In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if 
market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Fair value 
for measurement and/or disclosure purposes in these consolidated financial statements is determined on such a basis, except for share-
based payment transactions that are within the scope of HKFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the scope of HKAS 17, and 
measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realisable value in HKAS 2 or value in use in 
HKAS 36.

In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which 
the inputs to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, 
which are described as follows:

• 

• 

Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the 
measurement date;

Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly or indirectly; and

• 

Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.

The principal accounting policies are set out below.

Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company and its 
subsidiaries. Control is achieved when the Company:

• 

• 

•  

has the power over the investee;

is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and

has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.

The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of 
the three elements of control listed above.

Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the 
subsidiary. Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated 
statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income from the date the Group gains control until the date when the Group ceases to 
control the subsidiary.

Profit or loss and each item of other comprehensive income are attributed to the Owners of the Company and to the non-controlling 
interests. Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed to the Owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests even 
if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.

When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the 
Group’s accounting policies.

All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are 
eliminated in full on consolidation.

101

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Allocation of Total Comprehensive Income to Non-Controlling Interests
Total comprehensive income and expense of subsidiaries is attributed to the Owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests 
even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance (effective from January 1, 2010 onwards).

Changes in the Group’s Ownership Interests in Existing Subsidiaries
Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing control over the subsidiaries are 
accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of the Group’s relevant components of equity including reserves and the 
non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between the 
amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted after re-attribution of the relevant equity component and the fair value of the 
consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to Owners of the Company.

When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss and is calculated as the difference between (i) 
the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and (ii) the previous carrying 
amount of the assets (including goodwill), and liabilities of the subsidiary attributable to the Owners of the Company. All amounts 
previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to that subsidiary are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed 
of the related assets or liabilities of the subsidiary (i.e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred to another category of equity as specified/
permitted by applicable HKFRSs). The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is 
regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under HKAS 39, when applicable, of the cost on initial 
recognition of an investment in an associate or a joint venture.

Business Combinations
Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in a business combination is 
measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities 
incurred by the Group to the former Owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for control of the 
acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are generally recognised in profit or loss as incurred.

At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, 
except that:

• 

• 

• 

deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in 
accordance with HKAS 12 “Income Taxes” and HKAS 19 “Employee Benefits” respectively;

liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree or share based payment 
arrangements of the Group entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in accordance 
with HKFRS 2 “Share-based Payment” at the acquisition date (see the accounting policy below); and

assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with HKFRS 5 “Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations” are measured in accordance with that standard.

Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the 
acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any) over the net of the acquisition-date 
amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. If, after re-assessment, the net of the acquisition-date amounts of 
the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-
controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held interest in the acquiree (if any), the excess is 
recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.

102

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20163.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Business Combinations (continued)
Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets in 
the event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the 
recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on a transaction-by-transaction 
basis. Other types of non-controlling interests are measured at their fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified in another 
standard.

Where the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent 
consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and considered as part of the 
consideration transferred in a business combination. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as 
measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with the corresponding adjustments made against goodwill. Measurement 
period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the “measurement period” (which cannot 
exceed one year from the acquisition date) about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.

The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period 
adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not 
remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration that is 
classified as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with HKAS 39, or HKAS 37 “Provisions, 
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”, as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognised in profit or loss.

Acquisition of a Subsidiary not Constituting a Business
When the Group acquires a group of assets and liabilities that do not constitute a business, the Group identifies and recognises the 
individual identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed by allocating the purchase price first to the financial assets and financial 
liabilities at the respective fair values, the remaining balance of the purchase price is then allocated to the other individual identifiable 
assets and liabilities on the basis of their relative fair values at the date of purchase. Such a transaction does not give rise to goodwill or 
bargain purchase gain.

Goodwill
Goodwill arising on an acquisition of a business is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, if any, and is presented 
separately in the consolidated statement of financial position.

For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units (or groups of cash generating 
units) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination, which represent the lowest level at which the goodwill is monitored 
for internal managemenet purposes and not larger than an operating segment.

A cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently whenever there is 
indication that the unit may be impaired. For goodwill arising on an acquisition in a reporting period, the cash generating unit to which 
goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment before the end of that reporting period.

If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the cash generating unit, the impairment loss is 
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the 
basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised directly in profit or loss in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.

On disposal of the relevant cash generating unit, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the amount of 
profit or loss on disposal.

103

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20163.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Interests in Associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial 
and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.

The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these consolidated financial statements using the equity method of 
accounting. Under the equity method, investments in associates are initially recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position 
at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Group’s share of profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the associates. When 
the Group’s share of loss of an associate exceeds the Group’s interest in that associate (which includes any long-term interests that, in 
substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the associate), the Group discontinues recognising its share of further losses. 
Additional losses are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on 
behalf of that associate.

An investment in an associate is accounted for using the equity method from the date on which the investee becomes an associate. On 
acquisition of the investment in an associate, any excess of the cost of the investment over the Group’s share of the net fair value of the 
identifiable assets and liabilities of the investee is recognised as goodwill, which is included within the carrying amount of the investment. 
Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities over the cost of the investment, after 
reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss in the period in which the investment is acquired.

The requirements of HKAS 39 are applied to determine whether it is necessary to recognise any impairment loss with respect to the 
Group’s investment in an associate. When necessary, the entire carrying amount of the investment (including goodwill) is tested for 
impairment in accordance with HKAS 36 Impairment of Assets as a single asset by comparing its recoverable amount (higher of value in 
use and fair value less costs of disposal) with its carrying amount. Any impairment loss recognised forms part of the carrying amount of 
the investment. Any reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in accordance with HKAS 36 to the extent that the recoverable amount 
of the investment subsequently increases.

When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate, it accounted for as a disposal of the entire interest in the investee 
with a resulting gain or loss being recognised in profit or loss. When the Group retains an interest in the former associate and the retained 
interest is a financial asset within the scope of HKAS 39, the Group measures the retained interest at fair value at that date and the fair 
value is regarded as its fair value on initial recognition. The difference between the carrying amount of the associate at the date the equity 
method was discontinued, and the fair value of any retained interest and any proceeds from disposing the relevant interest in the 
associate is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal of the associate. In addition, the Group accounts for all amounts 
previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to that associate on the same basis as would be required if that associate 
had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. Therefore, if a gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income 
by that associate would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities, the Group reclassifies the gain or 
loss from equity to profit or loss (as a reclassification adjustment) when the equity method is discontinued.

When the Group reduces its ownership interest in an associate but the Group continues to use the equity method, the Group reclassifies 
to profit or loss the proportion of the gain or loss that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive income relating to that 
reduction in ownership interest if that gain or loss would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities.

When a group entity transacts with an associate of the Group (such as a sale or contribution of assets), profits and losses resulting from 
the transactions with the associate are recognised in the Group’s consolidated financial statements only to the extent of interests in the 
associate that are not related to the Group.

104

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20163.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Intangible Assets
Intangible Assets Acquired Separately

Intangible assets acquired separately and with finite useful lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated 
impairment losses. Amortisation of intangible assets with finite useful lives is provided on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful 
lives. The estimated useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in 
estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis. Alternatively, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives that are acquired separately 
are carried at cost less any subsequent accumulated impairment losses (see the accounting policy in respect of impairment losses on 
tangible and intangible assets below).

An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from use or disposal. Gains or losses 
arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured at the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and are recognised in profit or loss in the period when the asset is derecognised.

Intangible Assets Acquired in a Business Combination

Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised separately from goodwill and are initially measured at their fair value 
at the acquisition date. The cost of these intangible assets is their fair value at the acquisition date.

Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets with finite useful lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any 
accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of intangible assets with finite useful lives is provided on a straight-line basis over their 
estimated useful lives.

Alternatively, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are carried at cost less any subsequent accumulated impairment losses (see the 
accounting policy in respect of impairment losses on tangible and intangible assets below).

Research and Development Expenditure

Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.

An internally-generated intangible asset arising from development activities (or from the development phase of an internal project) is 
recognised only if all of the following have been demonstrated:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale;

the intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it;

the ability to use or sell the intangible asset;

how the intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits;

the availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the intangible 
asset; and

• 

the ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development.

The amount initially recognised for an internally-generated intangible asset is the sum of the expenditure incurred from the date when the 
intangible asset first meets the recognition criteria. Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development 
expenditure is charged to profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred.

Subsequent to initial recognition, an internally-generated intangible asset is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets acquired separately.

Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.

105

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20163.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

The Group as Lessee
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the 
present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the consolidation statement of 
financial position as a finance lease obligation.

Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and a reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of 
interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance expenses are recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless they are directly 
attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Group’s policy on borrowing costs (see the 
accounting policy below).

Operating lease payments, including the cost of acquiring land held under operating leases, are recognised as an expense on a straight-
line basis over the term of the relevant lease.

In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, these incentives are recognised as a liability. The aggregate 
benefits of incentives are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis.

Leasehold Land and Building
When a lease includes both land and building elements, the Group assesses the classification of each element as a finance or an 
operating lease separately based on the assessment as to whether substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of each 
element have been transferred to the Group, unless it is clear that both elements are operating leases in which case the entire lease is 
classified as an operating lease. Specifically, the minimum lease payments (including any lump-sum upfront payments) are allocated 
between the land and the building elements in proportion to the relative fair values of the leasehold interests in the land element and 
building element of the lease at the inception of the lease.

To the extent the allocation of the lease payments can be made reliably, interest in leasehold land that is accounted for as an operating 
lease is presented as “lease prepayments” in the consolidated statement of financial position and is amortised over the lease term on a 
straight-line basis. When the lease payments cannot be allocated reliably between the land and building elements, the entire lease is 
generally classified as a finance lease and accounted for as property, plant and equipment, unless it is clear that both elements are 
operating leases, in which case the entire lease is classified as an operating lease.

Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment including buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for administrative 
purposes, other than construction in progress, are stated in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost less subsequent 
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.

Freehold land is not depreciated.

Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of items of property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land and construction in 
progress, over their estimated useful lives and after taking into account of their estimated residual values, using the straight-line method. 
The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period with the effect of any 
changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.

Construction in progress includes property, plant and equipment in the course of construction for production or for its own use purposes. 
Construction in progress is carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss. Cost includes professional fees capitalised in accordance 
with the Group’s accounting policy. Construction in progress is classified to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment 
when completed and ready for its intended use. Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property, plant and equipment, 
commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.

Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the 
term of the relevant lease. However, when there is no reasonable certainty that ownership will be obtained by the end of the lease term, 
assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives.

An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from 
the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item) is included in profit or loss in the period in which the item is derecognised.

106

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20163.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Impairment Losses on Tangible and Intangible Assets other than Goodwill (see the Accounting Policy in 
respect of Goodwill above)
At the end of the reporting period, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its assets to determine whether there is any indication that 
those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to 
determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any. When it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the 
Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. Where a reasonable and consistent basis 
of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash generating units, or otherwise they are allocated to the 
smallest group of cash generating units for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified.

Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually, and 
whenever there is an indication that they may be impaired.

The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.

If the recoverable amount of an asset (or a cash generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of 
the asset (or a cash generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. In allocating the impairment loss, the impairment loss is 
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill (if applicable) and then to the other assets on a pro-rata basis based on the 
carrying amount of each asset in the unit. The carrying amount of an asset is not reduced below the highest of its fair value less costs of 
disposal (if measureable), its value in use (if determinable) and zero. The amount of the impairment loss that would otherwise have been 
allocated to the asset is allocated pro-rata to the other assets of the unit. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.

Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or a cash generating unit is increased to the revised 
estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or a cash generating unit in prior years. A reversal of an impairment 
loss is recognised as income immediately.

Financial Instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position when a group entity becomes a 
party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.

Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition 
or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are 
added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction 
costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised 
immediately in profit or loss.

107

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20163.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)
Financial Assets
The Group’s financial assets are classified into one of the three categories, including financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
(“FVTPL”), loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the 
financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition. All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised 
and derecognised on a trade date basis. Regular way purchases or sales are purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of 
assets within the time frame established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.

Effective Interest Method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over the 
relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees paid or 
received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected 
life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.

Interest income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified as at FVTPL, of 
which interest income is included in net gains or losses.

Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss
Financial assets at FVTPL include financial assets held for trading.

A financial asset is classified as held for trading if:

• 

• 

it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near future; or

it is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of 
short-term profit-taking; or

• 

it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.

Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value arising from remeasurement recognised directly in profit 
or loss in the period in which they arise. The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss includes any dividend or interest earned on the 
financial assets.

Loans and Receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables (including trade and other receivables, bills receivable, trade receivables from an 
associate and bank balances, deposits and cash) are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any identified 
impairment losses (see accounting policy in respect of impairment of financial assets below).

Available-for-sale Financial Assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated or not classified as financial assets at FVTPL, loans and 
receivables or held-to-maturity investments.

For available-for-sale equity investments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be 
reliably measured, they are measured at cost less any identified impairment losses at the end of each reporting period (see accounting 
policy in respect of impairment of financial assets below).

108

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20163.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)
Financial Assets (continued)

Impairment of Financial Assets
Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of each reporting period. Financial 
assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of 
the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the financial assets have been affected.

For all other financial assets, objective evidence of impairment could include:

• 

• 

• 

significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty; or

default or delinquency in interest or principal payments; or

it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.

For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables and trade receivables from an associate, assets that are assessed not to 
be impaired individually are, in addition, subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis. Objective evidence of impairment for 
a portfolio of receivables could include the Group’s past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed 
payments in the portfolio past the average credit period of 30 to 120 days, or observable changes in national or local economic conditions 
that correlate with default on receivables.

For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment loss recognised is the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate.

For financial assets carried at cost, the amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount 
and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset. Such 
impairment loss will not be reversed in subsequent periods.

The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade 
receivables and trade receivables from an associate, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. 
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss. When a trade receivable is considered 
uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to profit 
or loss.

When an available-for-sale financial asset is considered to be impaired, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss in the period in which the impairment takes place.

For financial assets measured at amortised cost, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of an impairment loss decreases and the decrease 
can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is 
reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed 
what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.

Impairment losses on available-for-sale equity investments will not be reversed through profit or loss in subsequent periods. Any increase 
in fair value subsequent to impairment loss is recognised directly in other comprehensive income.

109

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20163.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)
Financial Liabilities and Equity

Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by a group entity are classified either as financial liabilities or as equity in accordance 
with the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.

Equity Instrument
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity 
instruments issued by the Group are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.

Buy-back of the Company’s own equity instruments is recognised and deducted directly in equity. No gain or loss is recognised in profit or 
loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s own equity instruments.

Effective Interest Method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the 
relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees and points 
paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the 
expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.

Interest expense is recognised on an effective interest basis.

Other Financial Liabilities
Other financial liabilities (including unsecured borrowings, trade and other payables, bills payable, discounted bills with recourse and 
bank overdrafts) are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.

Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging

Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date when a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to 
their fair value at the end of the reporting period. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative 
is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of 
the hedge relationship.

Hedge Accounting

The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions for foreign currency exposure (cash flow 
hedges).

At the inception of the hedging relationship the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, 
along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the 
hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly 
effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.

Cash Flow Hedges

The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in profit or loss.

110

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20163.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)
Financial Guarantee Contracts

A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs 
because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument. A 
financial guarantee contract issued by the Group and not designated as at fair value through profit or loss is recognised initially at its fair 
value less transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial guarantee contract. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
the Group measures the financial guarantee contract at the higher of: (i) the amount of the obligation under the contract, as determined in 
accordance with HKAS 37 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”; and (ii) the amount initially recognised less, when 
appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised over the guarantee period in accordance with the revenue recognition policy.

Derecognition

The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the 
financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers nor 
retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group continues to 
recognise the asset to the extent of its continuing involvement and recognises an associated liability. If the Group retains substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also 
recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.

On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the sum of the consideration 
received and receivable and the cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in 
equity is recognised in profit or loss.

Financial liabilities are derecognised only when the obligation specified in the relevant contract is discharged, cancelled or expires. The 
difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised and the consideration paid is recognised in profit or loss.

Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be 
required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are measured at the best 
estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and 
uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its 
carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows (where the effect of the time value of money is material).

A provision for warranties is recognised at the time the products are sold based on the estimated cost using historical data for the level of 
repairs and replacements.

For a provision in relation to employee termination benefits, the liability and expenses are recognised when the Group committed to 
terminate the employment of an employee or group of employees before their normal retirement date or provide termination benefits as a 
result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.

Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost of inventories is calculated using the first-in, first-out method. Net 
realisable value represents the estimated selling price for inventories less all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make 
the sales.

111

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20163.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Revenue Recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods sold by the 
Group to outside customers in the normal course of business, less returns and allowances, and commission income and royalty income 
received.

Revenue is recognised when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, when it is probable that future economic benefits will flow 
to the Group and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities, as described below.

Revenue from sales of goods is recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.

Commission income is recognised when services are provided.

Royalty income is recognised on a time proportion basis in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreements.

Interest income from a financial asset is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount 
of income can be measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the 
effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that discounts the estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the 
financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount on initial recognition.

Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ right to receive payment have been established.

Taxation
Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.

The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the 
consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable 
or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is 
calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.

Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for 
all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it 
is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities 
are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a 
business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.

Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except 
where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such investments and 
interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the benefits 
of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of the reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or 
the asset is realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.

The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the 
Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is 
recognised in profit or loss, except when it relates to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in 
which case the deferred tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.

Current and deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss, except when it relates to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income 
or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity 
respectively. Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in 
the accounting for the business combination.

112

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20163.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Foreign Currencies
In preparing the financial statements of each individual group entity, transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of that 
entity (foreign currencies) are recorded in its respective functional currency (i.e. the currency of the primary economic environment in 
which the entity operates) at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting period, 
monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates at that date. Non-monetary items that are 
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.

Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are recognised in profit or 
loss in the period in which they arise, except for exchange differences arising on a monetary item that form part of the Company’s net 
investment in a foreign operation, in which case, such exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated in equity and will be reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.

For the purposes of presenting the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are 
translated into the presentation currency of the Group (i.e. United States dollars) at the rate of exchange prevailing at the end of each 
reporting period, and their income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates for the year. Exchange differences arising, if 
any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity under the heading of translation reserve (attributed to 
non-controlling interests as appropriate).

On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e. a disposal of the Group’s entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of 
control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of significant influence over an associate that 
includes a foreign operation), all of the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation attributable to the owners 
of the Company are reclassified to profit or loss. In addition, in relation to a partial disposal of a subsidiary that does not result in the Group 
losing control over the subsidiary, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are reattributed to non-controlling 
interests and are not recognised in profit or loss. For all other partial disposals (i.e. partial disposals of associates that do not result in the 
Group losing significant influence), the proportionate share of the accumulated exchange differences is reclassified to profit or loss.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identifiable assets acquired arising on an acquisition of a foreign operation on or after January 1, 
2005 are treated as assets and liabilities of that foreign operation and retranslated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the end of the 
reporting date. Exchange differences arising are recognised in the translation reserve.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identifiable assets acquired arising on acquisitions of foreign operations before January 1, 2005 
are treated as non-monetary foreign currency items of the acquirer and reported using the historical exchange rate prevailing at the date 
of the acquisition.

Borrowing Costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily 
take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets until such time as the 
assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings 
pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.

All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.

113

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20163.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Equity-Settled Share-Based Payment Transactions
The fair value of services received determined by reference to the fair value of share options granted at the grant date is expensed on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity (employee share-based compensation reserve).

At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to ultimately vest. The 
impact of the revision of the original estimates during the vesting period, such that the cumulative expenses reflecting the revised 
estimate, is recognised in profit or loss, with a corresponding adjustment to employee share-based compensation reserve.

At the time when the share options are exercised, the amount previously recognised in employee share-based compensation reserve will 
be transferred to share capital (share premium before March 3, 2014). When the share options are forfeited or are still not exercised at 
the expiry date, the amount previously recognised in the employee share-based compensation reserve will be transferred to retained 
profits.

The fair value of services received determined by reference to the fair value of shares awarded at the grant date is expensed on a straight-
line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity (employee share-based compensation reserve).

When the trustee purchases the Company’s shares from the open market, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable 
incremental costs, is presented as shares held for share award scheme and deducted from total equity. No gain or loss is recognised on 
the transactions of the Company’s own shares.

When the trustee transfers the Company’s shares to grantees upon vesting, the related costs of the granted shares vested are reversed 
from shares held under the share award scheme. Accordingly, the related expense of the granted shares vested is reversed from the 
employee share-based compensation reserve. The difference arising from this transfer is debited/credited to retained profits. At the end of 
the reporting period, the Group revises its estimate of the number of shares that are expected to ultimately vest. The impact of the revision 
of the estimate, if any, is recognised in profit or loss with a corresponding adjustment to the employee share-based compensation reserve.

Government Grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to 
them and that the grants will be received. Government grants are recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis over the periods in 
which the Group recognised as expenses the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate.

Retirement Benefit Schemes
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes and the Mandatory Provident Fund Scheme are charged as expenses when 
employees have rendered service entitling them to the contributions.

For defined benefit retirement benefits plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with 
actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each annual reporting period. Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, 
the effect of the changes to the asset ceiling (if applicable) and the return on plan assets (excluding interest), is reflected immediately in 
the consolidated statement of financial position with a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which 
they occur. Remeasurement recognised in other comprehensive income is reflected immediately in reserves and will not be reclassified to 
profit or loss.

114

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20163.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Retirement Benefit Schemes (continued)
Defined benefit costs are categorised as follows:

• 

• 

• 

service cost (including current service cost, past service cost, as well as gains and losses on curtailments and settlements);

net interest expense or income; and

remeasurement.

The Group presents the first two components of defined benefit costs in the line item administrative expenses under profit or loss. 
Curtailment gains and losses are accounted for as past service costs. Past service cost is recognised in profit or loss in the period of a plan 
amendment. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or 
asset.

The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the actual deficit or surplus in 
the Group’s defined benefit plans. Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits 
available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.

Short-term and other Long-term Employee Benefits
Short-term employee benefits are recognised at the undiscounted amount of the benefits expected to be paid as and when employees 
rendered the services. All short-term employee benefits are recognised as an expense unless another HKFRS requires or permits the 
inclusion of the benefit in the cost of an asset.

A liability is recognised for benefits accruing to employees (such as wages and salaries, annual leave and sick leave) after deducting any 
amount already paid.

Liabilities recognised in respect of other long-term employee benefits are measured at the present value of the estimated future cash 
outflows expected to be made by the Group in respect of services provided by employees up to the reporting date. Any changes in the 
liabilities’ carrying amounts resulting from service cost, interest and remeasurements are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent 
that another HKFRS requires or permits their inclusion in the cost of an asset.

4.  Key Sources of Accounting Estimates

In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 3, the directors are required to make estimates and 
assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and 
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the 
revision affects both current and future periods.

Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty
The following are key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting 
period that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial 
year.

115

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20164.  Key Sources of Accounting Estimates (continued)

Estimated Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Useful Lives
Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are impaired requires an estimation of recoverable amount, 
which is the higher of the value in use and fair value less costs of disposal of the cash generating units to which goodwill and intangible 
assets with indefinite useful lives have been allocated. The value in use calculation requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows 
expected to arise from the cash generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value. As at December 31, 
2016, the carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are approximately US$553,194,000 (2015: 
US$553,789,000) and approximately US$219,440,000 (2015: US$219,434,000) respectively. Details of the recoverable amount 
calculation are disclosed in Note 20.

Capitalisation, Useful Lives and Estimated Impairment of Deferred Development Costs
Determining the development costs, including time and costs for individual projects, to be capitalised requires estimations and 
assumptions based on the expected future economic benefits to be generated by the products resulted from these development costs. 
Other important estimations and assumptions in this assessment process are the feasibility of mass production, the distinction between 
research and development and the estimated useful life. As at December 31, 2016, the carrying amounts of deferred development costs 
of the Group are US$297,261,000 (2015: US$268,109,000). The estimation of their useful lives impacts the level of annual amortisation 
recorded. The estimation of their useful lives reflects the directors’ best estimate of the periods that future economic benefits will be 
received through the use of the assets. In determining whether the deferred development costs are impaired, the management takes into 
consideration the anticipated revenues and estimated future cash flows from the underlying projects, and the progress of these projects. 
When the actual revenues and future cash flows are less than expected, a material loss may arise. Management is confident that the 
carrying amount of the assets will be recovered in full. This situation will be closely monitored, and adjustments will be made in future 
periods, if future market activity indicates that adjustments are required.

Useful Lives and Impairment Assessment of Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and identified impairment losses. As at December 31, 
2016, the Group’s carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is US$601,230,000 (2015: US$538,466,000). The estimation of 
their useful lives impacts the level of annual depreciation expense recorded. The estimated useful life that the Group places the 
equipment into production reflects the directors’ estimate of the periods that the Group intend to derive future economic benefits from the 
use of the Group’s property, plant and equipment. Property, plant and equipment are evaluated for possible impairment on a specific 
asset basis or in groups of similar assets, as applicable. This process requires management’s estimate of future cash flows generated by 
each asset or group of assets. For any instance where this evaluation process indicates impairment, the appropriate assets’ carrying 
values are written down to the recoverable amount and the amount of the write-down is charged against the results of operations.

Income Taxes
As at December 31, 2016, a deferred tax asset of approximately US$89,952,000 (2015: US$107,846,000) in relation to unused tax 
losses and approximately US$48,199,000 (2015: US$43,661,000) in relation to employee related provisions has been recognised in the 
Group’s consolidated statement of financial position. The realisability of the deferred tax asset mainly depends on whether sufficient 
taxable profits, or taxable temporary differences, will be available in the future. In cases where the actual future taxable profits generated 
are less than expected, a material reversal of the deferred tax asset may arise, which would be recognised in profit or loss for the period in 
which such a reversal takes place. During the year, deferred tax assets of approximately US$9,200,000 (2015: US$8,403,000) in relation 
to unused tax losses were utilised.

Estimated Impairment of Trade and Other Receivables, Bills Receivable and Trade Receivables from an 
Associate
When there is objective evidence of an impairment loss, the Group takes into consideration the estimation of future cash flows. The 
amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated 
future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest 
rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition, where applicable). When the actual future cash flows are less than 
expected, a material impairment loss may arise. As at December 31, 2016, the Group’s carrying amount of trade and other receivables, 
bills receivable and trade receivables from an associate is US$969,279,000 (net of allowance for doubtful debts of US$20,025,000) 
(2015: US$886,034,000 (net of allowance for doubtful debts of US$23,705,000)).

116

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20165.  Segment Information

Information reported to the executive directors of the Company, being the chief operating decision makers, for the purposes of resources 
allocation and assessment of segment performance focuses on the types of goods sold.

The principal categories of goods supplied are “Power Equipment” and “Floor Care and Appliances”. The Group’s operating segments 
under HKFRS 8 are as follows:

1. 

2. 

Power Equipment – sales of power tools, power tool accessories, outdoor products, and outdoor product accessories for consumer, 
trade, professional and industrial users. The products are available under the MILWAUKEE, EMPIRE, AEG, RYOBI and HOMELITE 
brands plus original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) customers.

Floor Care and Appliances – sales of floor care products and floor care accessories under the HOOVER, DIRT DEVIL, VAX and 
ORECK brands plus OEM customers.

Information regarding the above segments is reported below.

Segment Revenue and Results
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenue and results by reportable and operating segments for the year:

For the year ended December 31, 2016

Segment revenue
  External sales

Inter-segment sales

Total segment revenue

Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates.

Result
  Segment results
Interest income

  Finance costs

  Profit before taxation
  Taxation charge

  Profit for the year

Power
Equipment
US$’000

Floor Care
and
Appliances
US$’000

Eliminations
US$’000

Consolidated
US$’000

4,470,590
—

1,009,823
1,038

—
(1,038)

5,480,413
—

4,470,590

1,010,861

(1,038)

5,480,413

430,307

19,862

—

450,169
11,653
(21,793)

440,029
(31,242)

408,787

The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in Note 3. Segment results 
represent the profit earned by each segment without the allocation of interest income and finance costs. This is the measure reported to 
the executive directors of the Company for the purpose of resources allocation and performance assessment.

No analysis of the Group’s assets and liabilities by operating segment is disclosed as they are not regularly provided to the chief operating 
decision makers for review.

117

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Segment Information (continued)
Other Segment Information
For the year ended December 31, 2016

Amounts included in the measure of segment results:

Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Write down of inventories
Impairment loss on trade receivables
Depreciation and amortisation

Segment Revenue and Results
For the year ended December 31, 2015

Segment revenue
  External sales

Inter-segment sales

Total segment revenue

Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates.

Result
  Segment results
Interest income

  Finance costs

  Profit before taxation
  Taxation charge

  Profit for the year

Power
Equipment
US$’000

Floor Care and
Appliances
US$’000

10,523
13,701
8,613
139,266

2,379
135
3,099
51,469

Consolidated
US$’000

12,902
13,836
11,712
190,735

Power
Equipment
US$’000

Floor Care
and Appliances
US$’000

Eliminations
US$’000

Consolidated
US$’000

3,972,081
17

1,065,923
1,009

3,972,098

1,066,932

—
(1,026)

(1,026)

5,038,004
—

5,038,004

379,302

20,513

—

399,815
10,577
(23,435)

386,957
(32,814)

354,143

118

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Segment Information (continued)
Other Segment Information
For the year ended December 31, 2015
Amounts included in the measure of segment results:

Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Write down of inventories
Impairment loss on trade receivables
Depreciation and amortisation

Revenue from Major Products
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenue from its major products:

Power Equipment
Floor Care and Appliances

Total

Power
Equipment
US$’000

Floor Care and
Appliances
US$’000

6,690
13,169
6,530
121,281

2,088
6,943
4,781
48,665

Consolidated
US$’000

8,778
20,112
11,311
169,946

2016
US$’000

4,470,590
1,009,823

2015
US$’000

3,972,081
1,065,923

5,480,413

5,038,004

Geographical Information
The Group’s revenue from external customers by geographical location, determined based on the location of the customer and information 
about its non-current assets, by geographical location, determined based on the location of the group entity owning the assets are detailed 
below:

North America
Europe
Other countries

Total

Revenue from external customers

Non-Current Assets*

2016
US$’000

4,160,886
889,587
429,940

2015
US$’000

3,772,235
861,029
404,740

2016
US$’000

829,447
111,417
789,777

2015
US$’000

869,789
110,888
664,954

5,480,413

5,038,004

1,730,641

1,645,631

* 

Non-current assets exclude financial instruments, deferred tax assets and interests in associates.

Information about Major Customer
During the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Group’s largest customer contributed total revenue of US$2,453,525,000 
(2015: US$2,148,906,000), of which US$2,373,928,000 (2015: US$2,067,735,000) was under the Power Equipment segment and 
US$79,597,000 (2015: US$81,171,000) was under the Floor Care and Appliances segment. There is no other customer contributing 
more than 10% of total revenue.

119

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
6.  Revenue

Revenue represents the fair value of the net amounts received and receivable for goods sold by the Group to outside customers, less 
returns and allowances, and commission and royalty income received during the year and is analysed as follows:

Sales of goods
Commission and royalty income

7.  Other Income

2016
US$’000

5,472,493
7,920

2015
US$’000

5,030,375
7,629

5,480,413

5,038,004

Other income in both 2016 and 2015 mainly comprises of the sale of scrap materials and claims and reimbursement from customers and 
vendors.

8. 

Interest Income
Interest income represents interest earned on bank deposits.

9.  Finance Costs

Interest on:
  Bank borrowings and overdrafts
  Obligations under finance leases
  Fixed interest rate notes

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

20,938
855
—

21,793

20,843
845
1,747

23,435

120

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. Taxation Charge

Current tax:
  Hong Kong Profits Tax
  Underprovision in prior years

  Overseas taxation
  Over (under)provision in prior years

Deferred tax (Note 41):
  Current year

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

(1,669)
(1,770)

(3,439)

(30,061)
4,155

(25,906)

(1,897)

(31,242)

(1,370)
(719)

(2,089)

(33,601)
(48,120)

(81,721)

50,996

(32,814)

Hong Kong Profits Tax is calculated at 16.5% of the estimated assessable profit for both years.

Taxation arising in other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.

Underprovision of income tax in prior years includes provisions for estimated tax exposures in respect of ongoing tax audits. Given the tax 
provided, no provision for additional income tax, if any, arising from the ongoing tax audits has been recognised as these amounts cannot 
be reliably estimated at this stage.

The tax charge for the year is reconciled as follows:

Profit before taxation

Tax at Hong Kong Profits Tax rate
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries
  operating in other jurisdictions
Tax effect of expenses not deductible for tax purposes
Tax effect of income not taxable for tax purposes
Utilisation of deductible temporary differences
  previously not recognised
Tax effect of tax losses and deductible temporary
  differences not recognised
Over (under)provision in respect of prior years
Others

Tax charge for the year

Details of deferred tax are set out in Note 41.

2016
US$’000

440,029

2016
%

(72,605)

16.5%

68,749
(25,814)
19,413

386

(22,369)
2,385
(1,387)

(31,242)

(15.6%)
5.9%
(4.4%)

(0.1%)

5.1%
(0.6%)
0.3%

7.1%

2015
US$’000

386,957

(63,848)

87,485
(17,729)
14,600

(97)

(3,453)
(48,839)
(933)

(32,814)

2015
%

16.5%

(22.6%)
4.6%
(3.7%)

0.0%

0.9%
12.6%
0.2%

8.5%

121

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11. Profit for the Year

Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging (crediting):

Amortisation of intangible assets
Amortisation of lease prepayments
Auditors’ remuneration
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense
Depreciation and amortisation on property, plant and equipment 
  Owned assets
  Assets held under finance leases
Fair value gain on interest rate swap
Fair value loss (gain) on foreign currency forward contracts
Fair value loss on held-for-trading investments
Fair value loss on derivative financial instruments
Impairment loss on trade receivables
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Loss on disposal of held-for-trading investments
Net exchange (gain) loss
Operating lease expenses recognised in respect of:
  Motor vehicles
  Plant and machinery
  Premises
  Other assets
Reversal of impairment loss on trade receivables
Unconditional government grants
Write off of intangible assets
Write down of inventories
Staff costs
  Directors’ remuneration

  Fees
  Other emoluments

Other staff costs
Retirement benefits scheme contributions

(other than those included in the Directors’ emoluments)

  Defined contribution plans
  Defined benefit plans (Note 40)

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

88,649
744
3,309
3,495,234

78,422
739
3,129
3,240,365

98,609
2,733
(660)
21,115
139
558
11,712
12,902
49
(12,389)

19,230
14,694
33,642
2,761
(4,544)
(375)
1,895
13,836

244
36,061

36,305
632,530

9,160
2,211

88,385
2,400
(1,287)
(7,858)
38
1,091
11,311
8,778
—
2,202

17,137
5,288
31,588
2,769
(2,697)
(109)
3,476
20,112

217
33,450

33,667
576,970

7,996
2,589

Staff costs disclosed above do not include an amount of US$126,298,000 (2015: US$105,709,000) of staff costs incurred relating to 
research and development activities.

680,206

621,222

122

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12. Director’s Emoluments

The emoluments paid or payable to each of the twelve (2015: twelve) directors, disclosed pursuant to the applicable Listing Rules and CO, 
were as follows:

For the year ended December 31, 2016

Other emoluments

Basic
salaries and
allowances
US$’000

Contributions
to retirement
benefits
schemes
US$’000

Fees
US$’000

Bonus
US$’000

Share-based
payments
US$’000

Total
US$’000

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill (Note i)
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill 

(appointed as Vice Chairman on 

  October 1, 2016) (Note i)
Mr Joseph Galli Jr (Note i)
Mr Kin Wah Chan (Note i)
Mr Chi Chung Chan (Note i)
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP (Note ii)
Mr Camille Jojo (Note ii)
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

(Note iii)

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann (Note iii)
Mr Peter David Sullivan (Note iii)
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung (Note iii)
Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse

(appointed on October 1, 2016) (Note iii)

—

—
—
—
—
39
39

39
39
39
39

10

1,671

2

5,862

1,530

9,065

340
1,596
721
719
6
6

19
45
48
49

1

2
180
2
2
—
—

—
—
—
—

—

970
14,100
1,150
1,476
—
—

—
152
—
—

—

443
3,658
443
443
85
—

85
85
85
85

—

1,755
19,534
2,316
2,640
130
45

143
321
172
173

11

Total

244

5,221

188

23,710

6,942

36,305

For the year ended December 31, 2015

Other emoluments

Basic
salaries and
allowances
US$’000

Contributions
to retirement
benefits
schemes
US$’000

Fees
US$’000

—
—
—
—
—
39

7

39
39
39
39

15

1,671
340
1,583
722
719
5

—

18
43
46
35

18

2
2
180
2
2
—

—

—
—
—
—

—

Bonus
US$’000

4,575
2,080
13,500
1,439
2,547
—

—

269
106
—
—

—

Share-based
payments
US$’000

1,147
381
1,091
381
381
33

—

33
33
33
33

—

Total
US$’000

7,395
2,803
16,354
2,544
3,649
77

7

359
221
118
107

33

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill (Note i)
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill (Note i)
Mr Joseph Galli Jr (Note i)
Mr Kin Wah Chan (Note i)
Mr Chi Chung Chan (Note i)
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP (Note ii)
Mr Camille Jojo (appointed on 
  October 30, 2015)
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

(Note iii)

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann (Note iii)
Mr Peter David Sullivan (Note iii)
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung (Note iii)
Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher

(retired on May 22, 2015)

Total

217

5,200

188

24,516

3,546

33,667

123

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12. Director’s Emoluments (continued)

Note i:  The individuals represent the Executive Directors of the Company and the Group. The Executive Directors’ emoluments shown above were mainly for their 

services in connection with management of the affairs of the Company and the Group.

Note ii: The individuals represent the Non-executive Directors of the Company. The non-executive director’ emoluments shown above were mainly for their services as 

Directors of the Company.

Note iii: The individuals represent the independent Non-executive Directors of the Company. The Independent Non-executive Directors’ emoluments shown above were 

mainly for their services as Directors of the Company.

The bonuses were based on past performance of the Group.

The above emoluments include the value of share options granted and shares awarded to certain directors under the Company’s share 
option schemes and share award scheme, respectively, as estimated at the date of grant and award. Details of these benefits in kind are 
disclosed under the sections “Share Options” and “Share Award Scheme” in Notes 45 and 46 respectively.

13. Employees’ Emoluments

Of the five individuals with the highest emoluments in the Group, four (2015: four) were directors of the Company whose emoluments are 
included in Note 12 above. The emoluments of the remaining one (2015: one) individual for the year ended December 31, 2016 was as 
follows:

Basic salaries and allowances
Contributions to retirement benefits schemes
Bonus
Other benefit
Share-based payments

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

767
91
1,500
42
—

2,400

684
79
2,820
30
—

3,613

The emoluments of this one (2015: one) highest paid individual for the year ended December 31, 2016 was within the following bands:

US$

2,000,001 to 2,500,000
3,500,001 to 4,000,000

No. of persons

2016

1
—

2015

—
1

During each of the two years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, no emoluments have been paid by the Group to the five highest paid 
individuals, including directors, as an inducement to join or upon joining the Group or as compensation for loss of office. No director has 
waived any emoluments during those years.

124

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14. Dividends

Dividends recognised as distributions during the year:
Final dividend paid:
  2015: HK23.25 cents (approximately US2.99 cents)

(2014: HK19.00 cents (approximately US2.45 cents)) per share

54,881

44,799

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

Interim dividend paid:
  2016: HK20.00 cents (approximately US2.57 cents) 

(2015: HK16.00 cents (approximately US2.06 cents)) per share

47,240

102,121

37,726

82,525

The final dividend of HK30.00 cents (approximately US3.86 cents) per share with a total of approximately US$70,807,000 in respect of 
the year ended December 31, 2016 (2015: final dividend of HK23.25 cents (approximately US2.99 cents) per share in respect of the year 
ended December 31, 2015) has been proposed by the directors and is subject to approval by the shareholders in the Annual General 
Meeting.

15. Earnings per Share

The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to Owners of the Company is based on the following data:

Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share:
  Profit for the year attributable to Owners of the Company

Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
  Share options
  Share award

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

408,982

354,427

1,832,139,377

1,830,134,915

6,024,374
713,467

7,351,461
402,825

Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share

1,838,877,218

1,837,889,201

125

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. Property, Plant and Equipment

Land and
buildings
(Note)
US$’000

Leasehold
improvements
US$’000

Office
equipment,
furniture and
fixtures
US$’000

Plant and
machinery
US$’000

Motor
vehicles
US$’000

Moulds and
tooling
US$’000

Vessels
US$’000

Construction
in progress
US$’000

Cost
At January 1, 2015
Currency realignment
Additions
Acquisition of subsidiaries / a business
Disposals
Reclassification

113,705
(2,480)
4,695
69,815
(3,095)
4,189

61,875
(2,031)
2,113
—
(552)
1,351

170,427
(5,624)
13,024
—
(2,752)
7,513

232,063
(7,150)
23,591
—
(9,549)
17,672

At December 31, 2015

186,829

62,756

182,588

256,627

Currency realignment
Additions
Disposals
Reclassification

(1,776)
2,507
(12,195)
7,019

(2,206)
3,003
(589)
10,200

(6,067)
15,091
(5,475)
23,463

(8,105)
17,513
(8,786)
22,103

5,690
(253)
728
—
(665)
330

5,830

(49)
471
(749)
241

220,747
(2,527)
16,958
—
(33,076)
43,719

245,821

(4,509)
14,670
(23,331)
58,301

2,298
—
—
—
—
—

2,298

—
71
—
—

Total
US$’000

883,264
(21,540)
161,652
69,815
(54,337)
—

76,459
(1,475)
100,543
—
(4,648)
(74,774)

96,105

1,038,854

(506)
137,128
(6,479)
(121,327)

(23,218)
190,454
(57,604)
—

At December 31, 2016

182,384

73,164

209,600

279,352

5,744

290,952

2,369

104,921

1,148,486

Depreciation and Impairment
At January 1, 2015
Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on disposals

At December 31, 2015

Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on disposals

41,868
(360)
6,943
(723)

47,728

(442)
7,565
(12,195)

24,862
(784)
4,318
(493)

125,237
(3,690)
17,153
(2,572)

118,996
(2,651)
20,414
(8,138)

27,903

136,128

128,621

(827)
4,917
(544)

(3,716)
17,763
(5,244)

(3,233)
22,481
(7,840)

3,737
(133)
655
(605)

3,654

(35)
761
(554)

141,092
(1,279)
41,110
(26,867)

154,056

(2,494)
47,848
(17,350)

2,106
—
192
—

2,298

—
7
—

At December 31, 2016

42,656

31,449

144,931

140,029

3,826

182,060

2,305

—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—

—

457,898
(8,897)
90,785
(39,398)

500,388

(10,747)
101,342
(43,727)

547,256

Carrying amounts
At December 31, 2016

At December 31, 2015

139,728

139,101

41,715

34,853

64,669

139,323

46,460

128,006

1,918

2,176

108,892

91,765

64

—

104,921

601,230

96,105

538,466

Note:  Buildings with a carrying amount of US$21,958,000 (2015: US$19,640,000) are erected on leasehold land that is presented as lease prepayments on the 

consolidated statement of financial position.

126

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. Property, Plant and Equipment (continued)

The above property, plant and equipment, other than construction in progress, are depreciated on a straight-line basis, at the following 
rates per annum:

Freehold land
Leasehold land
Buildings
Leasehold improvements
Office equipment, furniture and fixtures
Plant and machinery
Motor vehicles
Moulds and tooling
Vessels

Nil
Shorter of lease term or useful life
21/5% - 62/3%
21/2% - 331/3%
10% - 331/3%
9% - 331/3%
10% - 331/3%
18% - 331/3%
20%

The carrying amounts of properties shown above comprise:

Land and buildings situated outside Hong Kong are analysed as follows:
  Freehold
  Leasehold

Land and buildings situated in Hong Kong

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

50,049
21,958

72,007
67,721

50,344
19,640

69,984
69,117

139,728

139,101

The carrying amounts of the Group’s property, plant and equipment include amounts of approximately US$12,958,000 (2015: 
US$11,856,000) in respect of assets held under finance leases.

The gross carrying amount of the Group’s property, plant and equipment includes amounts of approximately US$283,657,000 (2015: 
US$241,377,000) in respect of fully depreciated property, plant and equipment that are still in use.

127

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$’000

39,862
(1,778)

38,084
(2,522)

35,562

5,156
(252)
739

5,643

(406)
744

5,981

29,581

32,441

US$’000

554,137
(1,772)
1,424

553,789
(595)

553,194

17. Lease Prepayments

Cost
At January 1, 2015
Currency realignment

At December 31, 2015
Currency realignment

At December 31, 2016

Amortisation
At January 1, 2015
Currency realignment
Provided for the year

At December 31, 2015

Currency realignment
Provided for the year

At December 31, 2016

Carrying amounts
At December 31, 2016

At December 31, 2015

All lease prepayments are related to leases outside Hong Kong.

18. Goodwill

At January 1, 2015
Currency realignment
Arising on acquisition of subsidiaries / a business

At December 31, 2015
Currency realignment

At December 31, 2016

Particulars regarding impairment testing of goodwill are disclosed in Note 20.

128

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19. Intangible Assets

Deferred 
development 
costs
US$’000

Patents
US$’000

Trademarks
US$’000

Manufacturing 
know-how
US$’000

Retailer
and service 
relationships
US$’000

Non compete 
agreement
US$’000

Cost
At January 1, 2015
Currency realignment
Additions
Written off in the year

535,452
(183)
102,767
(7,392)

59,442
—
4,023
(60)

234,784
—
—
(500)

At December 31, 2015

630,644

63,405

234,284

Currency realignment
Additions
Written off in the year

(60)
111,950
(12,752)

(22)
4,321
(94)

—
6
—

453
—
—
—

453

—
—
—

10,500
—
—
—

10,500

—
—
—

10,634
—
—
—

10,634

—
—
—

Total
US$’000

851,265
(183)
106,790
(7,952)

949,920

(82)
116,277
(12,846)

At December 31, 2016

729,782

67,610

234,290

453

10,500

10,634

1,053,269

Amortisation
At January 1, 2015
Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on write off

At December 31, 2015

Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on write off

At December 31, 2016

Carrying amounts
At December 31, 2016

297,166
(144)
69,967
(4,454)

362,535

(48)
80,910
(10,876)

38,290
—
4,823
(22)

43,091

(2)
4,559
(75)

11,349
—
913
—

12,262

—
461
—

432,521

47,573

12,723

297,261

20,037

221,567

At December 31, 2015

268,109

20,314

222,022

453
—
—
—

453

—
—
—

453

—

—

2,430
—
592
—

3,022

—
592
—

5,495
—
2,127
—

7,622

—
2,127
—

355,183
(144)
78,422
(4,476)

428,985

(50)
88,649
(10,951)

3,614

9,749

506,633

6,886

7,478

885

546,636

3,012

520,935

The retailer and service relationships were acquired through business combinations which related to the relationships with retailers and 
service centres.

Deferred development costs are internally generated by capitalising the costs pertaining to development of new or enhancement of 
existing products.

Included in trademarks of the Group, US$219,440,000 (2015: US$219,434,000) are trademarks as considered by the management of 
the Group as having indefinite useful lives because they are expected to contribute to the Group’s net cash inflows indefinitely. The 
trademarks will not be amortised until their useful lives are determined to be finite. Instead they will be tested for impairment annually and 
whenever there is an indication that they may be impaired. Particulars of the impairment testing are disclosed in Note 20.

The above intangible assets, other than trademarks with indefinite useful lives, are amortised on a straight-line basis, at the following rates 
per annum:

Deferred development costs
Patents
Trademarks with finite useful lives
Retailer and service relationships
Non compete agreement

20% - 331/3%
10% - 25%
62/3% - 10%
5% - 62/3%
20%

129

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20. Impairment Testing on Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Useful Lives

As explained in Note 5, the Group uses the types of goods sold for operating segment information. For the purpose of impairment testing, 
goodwill and trademarks with indefinite useful lives set out in Notes 18 and 19, the majority of the amounts have been allocated to five 
major individual cash generating units (CGUs), including four units in the Power Equipment segment and one unit in the Floor Care and 
Appliances segment. The carrying amounts of goodwill and trademarks as at December 31, 2016 allocated to these units are as follows:

Power Equipment – MET
Power Equipment – HCP
Power Equipment – Drebo
Power Equipment – Baja
Floor Care and Appliances – RAM/Hoover/VAX
Others

Goodwill

Trademarks

2016
US$’000

416,617
7,492
20,753
9,017
75,748
23,567

553,194

2015
US$’000

416,617
7,492
21,348
9,017
75,748
23,567

553,789

2016
US$’000

118,407
30,648
—
3,200
67,179
6

219,440

2015
US$’000

118,407
30,648
—
3,200
67,179
—

219,434

No impairment of goodwill and trademarks have been recognised for the year ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015.

The basis of the recoverable amounts of the above CGUs and their major underlying assumptions are summarised below:

Power Equipment – MET (“MET”)
The recoverable amount of MET’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation 
uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period and a discount rate of 10.0% 
(2015: 11.5%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for MET are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including sales, 
gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimations are based on MET’s past 
performance, management’s expectations of the market development, the success in new products launched, the success in reducing 
the working capital requirements and the success of the cost cutting strategy implemented by the Group. Cash flow projections beyond 
the 5-year period are extrapolated using a steady 3.0% (2015: 3.0%) growth rate. Management believes that any reasonably possible 
change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of MET’s goodwill and intangibles to exceed the recoverable 
amounts.

Power Equipment – HCP (“HCP”)
The recoverable amount of HCP’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation 
uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a discount rate of 11.0% 
(2015: 12.0%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for HCP are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including sales, 
gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimations are based on HCP’s past 
performance, management’s expectations of the market development, the success in new products launched and the success of the cost 
cutting strategy implemented. Cash flow projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated without considering any growth rate. 
Management believes that any reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of HCP’s 
goodwill and intangibles to exceed the aggregate recoverable amounts.

130

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
20. Impairment Testing on Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Useful Lives (continued)

Power Equipment – Drebo (“Drebo”)
The recoverable amount of Drebo’s goodwill has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation uses cash flow 
projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a discount rate of 11.0% (2015: 11.0%) 
per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for Drebo are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including sales, 
gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimations are based on Drebo’s past 
performance, management’s expectations of the market development, the success in new products launched and the cost cutting 
strategies implemented. Cash flow projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated using a 1.0% (2015: 1.0%) growth rate. 
Management believes that any reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of Drebo’s 
goodwill to exceed the recoverable amount.

Power Equipment – Baja (“Baja”)
The recoverable amount of Baja’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation 
uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a discount rate of 12.0% 
(2015: 12.0%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for Baja are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including sales, 
gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimations are based on Baja’s past 
performance, management’s expectations of the market development and the success of the cost cutting strategy implemented. Cash flow 
projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated using a steady 2.0% (2015: 2.0%) growth rate. Management believes that any 
reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of Baja’s goodwill and intangibles to exceed 
the aggregate recoverable amounts.

Floor Care and Appliances – RAM/Hoover/VAX (“RAM/Hoover/VAX”)
The recoverable amount of RAM/Hoover/VAX’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That 
calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a discount rate 
of 15.0% (2015: 15.0%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for RAM/Hoover/VAX are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows 
including sales, gross margin, operating expenses, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. The assumptions and 
estimations are based on RAM/Hoover/VAX’s past performance, management’s expectations of the market development, the success in 
reducing the working capital requirements and the success of the cost cutting strategies implemented. Cash flow projections beyond the 
5-year period are extrapolated using a steady 2.0% (2015: 2.0%) growth rate. Management believes that any reasonably possible change 
in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of RAM/Hoover/VAX’s goodwill and intangibles to exceed the aggregate 
recoverable amounts.

131

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201621. Interests in Associates

Unlisted shares, at cost less impairment loss recognised
Share of net assets
Amounts due from associates

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

—
—
3,667

3,667

—
—
6,588

6,588

Particulars of the associates as at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 are set out in Note 51.

The amounts due from associates are unsecured, non-interest bearing and are repayable on demand.

At the end of the reporting period, amongst the associates, the Group held 40.8% of the shares of Gimelli International (Holdings) Limited 
and its subsidiaries (together the “Gimelli Group companies”). The Group has discontinued recognising its share of the losses of the 
Gimelli Group companies. The unrecognised share of profit (loss) for the year and cumulatively, extracted from the relevant management 
accounts of the associates, are US$557,000 (2015: US$142,000) and (US$4,379,000) (2015: (US$4,936,000)) respectively.

22. Available-for-sale Investments

Unlisted equity securities and club membership debentures,
  at cost less impairment loss recognised

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

613

495

As at December 31, 2016, all available-for-sale investments represent investments in unlisted equity securities and club membership 
debentures. They are measured at cost less impairment at the reporting date because the range of reasonable fair value estimates is so 
significant that the directors of the Company are of the opinion that their fair values cannot be measured reliably.

2016
US$’000

120,919
9,787
1,165,719

2015
US$’000

105,340
12,937
1,072,054

1,296,425

1,190,331

23. Inventories

Raw materials
Work in progress
Finished goods

132

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24. Trade and other Receivables

Trade receivables
Less: Allowances for doubtful debts

Other receivables

2016
US$’000

954,875
(20,025)

934,850
16,032

950,882

2015
US$’000

851,642
(23,705)

827,937
21,551

849,488

The aging analysis of trade receivables, net of allowances for doubtful debts, presented on the basis of the revenue recognition date, 
which is usually the invoice date, at the end of the reporting period is as follows:

0 to 60 days
61 to 120 days
121 days or above

Total trade receivables

2016
US$’000

759,702
141,223
33,925

934,850

2015
US$’000

699,592
90,601
37,744

827,937

Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses an internal credit scoring system to assess the potential customer’s credit quality and 
defines credit limits by customer. Limits and scoring attributed to customers are reviewed regularly. Trade receivables that are neither past 
due nor impaired have the best credit scoring attributable under the internal credit scoring system used by the Group.

Included in the Group’s trade receivable balance are debtors with a carrying amount of US$112,148,000 (2015: US$111,504,000) which 
are past due at the reporting date for which the Group has not provided for impairment loss. The Group does not hold any collateral over 
these balances. The average age of these receivables is 42 days (2015: 61 days).

The Group has a policy of allowing credit periods ranging mainly from 30 days to 120 days. Trade receivables that were past due but not 
provided for impairment loss are related to a number of independent customers that have a good track record with the Group. The 
management believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of these balances as there has not been a significant change 
in credit quality of the relevant customers and the balances are still considered fully recoverable.

Ageing of Trade Receivables which are past due but not Impaired

1 - 60 days
61 - 120 days
121 - 365 days
1 - 2 years
Over 2 years

Total

2016
US$’000

100,131
10,524
541
782
170

112,148

2015
US$’000

85,554
14,128
11,607
54
161

111,504

133

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24. Trade and other Receivables (continued)

Movement in the Allowance for Doubtful Debts

Balance at beginning of the year
Currency realignment
Impairment losses recognised on receivables
Amounts written off as uncollectible
Amounts recovered during the year

Balance at end of the year

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

23,705
(907)
11,712
(9,941)
(4,544)

20,025

22,522
(1,063)
11,311
(6,368)
(2,697)

23,705

Included in the allowance for doubtful debts are individually impaired trade receivables amounting to US$20,025,000 (2015: 
US$23,705,000) which have the worst credit scoring attributable under the internal credit scoring system used by the Group. The Group 
does not hold any collateral over these balances.

Ageing of Impaired Trade Receivables (by Invoice Date)

0 - 120 days
121 - 365 days
1 - 2 years
Over 2 years

Total

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

3,975
6,743
8,514
793

3,195
9,035
7,879
3,596

20,025

23,705

In accordance with receivables purchase agreements, certain trade receivables were factored to banks (the “Factored Trade 
Receivables”). As the Group still retained the risks associated in respect of default payments, the Group has continued to recognise the 
Factored Trade Receivables in the consolidated statement of financial position. At the end of the reporting period, proceeds from the 
Factored Trade Receivables of approximately US$75,000,000 (2015: US$75,000,000) were recognised as liabilities and included in 
“Unsecured borrowings – due within one year” in the consolidated statement of financial position.

25. Bills Receivable

All the Group’s bills receivable at December 31, 2016 and 2015 are due within 120 days.

26. Trade Receivables from an Associate

The trade receivables from an associate were aged and are due within 120 days.

134

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27. Derivative Financial Instruments

Assets
Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment
Foreign currency forward contracts
  – under hedge accounting
Foreign currency forward contracts
  – not under hedge accounting

Liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts
  – under hedge accounting
Foreign currency forward contracts
  – not under hedge accounting
Interest rate swap

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

9,986

19,857

342

30,185

1,392

783
—

2,175

10,544

20,654

1,761

32,959

12,463

905
660

14,028

Acquisition Right of Certain Property, Plant and Equipment
As at December 31, 2016, the Group owned a right to acquire certain property, plant and equipment which was acquired as part of the 
acquisition of the Oreck business from the Oreck Bankruptcy Estate. The right is expected to be exercised in 2032. The fair value of the 
property, plant and equipment was US$9,986,000 valued on September 30, 2016 by Duff & Phelps, LLC., an independent valuer not 
related to the Group.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts
The fair values of foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from 
quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts under Hedge Accounting
At the end of the reporting period, the Group had the following foreign currency forward contracts designated as highly effective hedging 
instruments in order to manage the Group’s foreign currency exposure in relation to future foreign currency sales. The terms of the foreign 
exchange contracts have been negotiated to match the terms of the respective designated hedged items.

135

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27. Derivative Financial Instruments (continued)

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts under Hedge Accounting (continued)
Major terms of the foreign currency forward contracts under hedge accounting are as follows:

2016

Notional amounts in millions

Maturity

Sell AU$ 308M, Buy US$
Sell EUR 150M, Buy US$
Buy US$ 66M, Sell GBP
Sell US$ 4.6M, Buy GBP
Buy US$ 40M, Sell EUR

2015

Notional amounts in millions

Sell AU$ 267.6M, Buy US$
Sell US$ 414.2M, Buy RMB
Sell EUR 169M, Buy US$
Buy US$ 50M, Sell GBP
Buy US$ 34.6M, Sell EUR
Buy EUR 3.7M, Sell AU$
Buy US$ 17.2M, Sell AU$

January 25, 2017 to December 28, 2017
January 31, 2017 to December 29, 2017
January 17, 2017 to December 15, 2017
May 15, 2017 to December 15, 2017
January 31, 2017 to December 29, 2017

Maturity

January 29, 2016 to December 30, 2016
January 28, 2016 to December 28, 2016
January 15, 2016 December 30, 2016
January 11, 2016 to June 20, 2016
January 4, 2016 to October 31, 2016
January 15, 2016 to December 5, 2016
January 21, 2016 to June 6, 2016

During the year, a fair value loss of US$11,187,000 (2015: gain of US$19,075,000) was reclassified from reserves to profit or loss.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts not under Hedge Accounting
Major terms of the foreign currency forward contracts not under hedge accounting are as follows:

2016

Notional amounts in millions

Maturity

Sell NOK 30M, Buy EUR
Sell US$ 2.3M, Buy EUR
Buy US$ 5M, Sell EUR
Buy US$ 24M, Sell NZ$
Buy US$ 8.4M, Sell AU$

2015

January 19, 2017 to May 18, 2017
January 17, 2017 to March 15, 2017
January 31, 2017 to March 15, 2017
February 7, 2017 to November 20, 2017
January 9, 2017 to June 13, 2017

Notional amounts in millions

Maturity

Buy US$ 25M, Sell RMB
Sell US$ 25M, Buy RMB
Sell EUR 23.3M, Buy US$
Sell GBP 8M, Buy EUR
Buy GBP 3M, Sell EUR
Sell US$ 0.5M, Buy DKK
Buy US$ 2.4M, Sell EUR
Sell US$ 2M, Buy EUR
Buy US$ 26.1M, Sell NZ$

136

January 7, 2016 to April 29, 2016
January 7, 2016 to April 29, 2016
December 14, 2015 to February 29, 2016
January 21, 2016 to May 12, 2016
January 21, 2016 to May 12, 2016
April 6, 2016
January 15, 2016 to June 15, 2016
January 25, 2016 to March 21, 2016
December 23, 2015 to December 20, 2016

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27. Derivative Financial Instruments (continued)

Interest Rate Swap (not under hedge accounting)
The fair value of the interest rate swap in 2015 of the Group was measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and 
discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.

Major terms of the interest rate swap were as follows:

2015

Notional amount

US$ 50,000,000

Maturity

Receive floating

December 31, 2013 to May 4, 2016

LIBOR

Pay fixed

1.2% - 3.1%

28. Held-for-Trading Investments

The Group’s held-for-trading investments at December 31, 2015 were carried at fair value using the market bid prices on the reporting 
date.

Held-for-trading investments include:

Equity securities:
– Unlisted investment funds

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

—

—

1,116

1,116

29. Bank Balances, Deposits and Cash/Bank Overdrafts

Bank balances carry interest at market rates which range from 0.001% to 0.70% (2015: 0.03% to 0.05%) per annum. Bank overdrafts 
carry interest at market rates which range from 3.50% to 3.75% (2015: 3.25% to 5.00%) per annum.

30. Trade and other Payables

The aging analysis of trade payables presented based on the invoice date at the end of the reporting period is as follows:

0 to 60 days
61 to 120 days
121 days or above

Total trade payables
Other payables

2016
US$’000

561,148
142,404
7,878

711,430
619,377

2015
US$’000

523,034
140,479
9,734

673,247
487,247

1,330,807

1,160,494

The credit period on the purchase of goods ranges from 30 days to 120 days (2015: 30 days to 120 days). The Group has financial risk 
management policies in place to ensure that all payables are settled within the credit time frame.

137

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31. Bills Payable

All the Group’s bills payable at December 31, 2016 and 2015 are due within 120 days.

32. Warranty Provision

At January 1,2015
Currency realignment
Additional provision in the year
Utilisation of provision

At December 31, 2015
Currency realignment
Additional provision in the year
Utilisation of provision

At December 31, 2016

US$’000

65,819
(2,123)
118,254
(106,757)

75,193
(1,622)
110,403
(103,886)

80,088

The warranty provision represents management’s best estimate of the Group’s outstanding liabilities on products sold, based on prior 
experience and industry averages for defective products. It is expected that the majority of this expenditure will be incurred in the next 
financial year.

33. Obligations under Finance Leases

It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its land and buildings, plant and machinery and fixtures and equipment under finance leases, 
with lease terms ranging from 2 years to 20 years. Interest rates underlying all obligations under finance leases are fixed at the respective 
contract dates ranging from 0.53% to 7.50% (December 31, 2015: 6.74% to 8.65%) per annum. No arrangements have been entered 
into that include contingent rental payments.

The maturity of obligations under finance leases is as follows:

Amounts payable under finance leases:
  Within one year

In more than one year but not more than two years
In more than two years but not more than three years
In more than three years but not more than four years
In more than four years but not more than five years

  More than five years

Less: future finance charges

Present value of lease obligations

Less: Amount due within one year shown
           under current liabilities

Amount due after one year

Minimum lease payments

Present value of
minimum lease payments

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

3,727
3,516
3,133
3,006
2,172
216

15,770
(2,028)

13,742

2,901
2,697
2,697
2,324
2,199
2,181

14,999
(2,444)

12,555

2,982
2,948
2,740
2,774
2,094
204

13,742
—

13,742

(2,982)

10,760

2,153
2,087
2,229
1,996
1,997
2,093

12,555
—

12,555

(2,153)

10,402

The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by charges over the leased assets.

138

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
34. Discounted Bills with Recourse

Bills discounted with banks at an effective interest rate of 1.80% per annum (2015: 1.43% per annum) have maturity profiles of less than 
120 days.

35. Capital Risk Management

The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return 
to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The Group’s overall strategy remains unchanged from prior years.

The capital structure of the Group consists of debt (which includes borrowings, discounted bills with recourse and obligations under 
finance leases), net of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to Owners of the Company, comprising issued share capital, 
reserves and retained profits.

Gearing Ratio
The Group’s management reviews the capital structure on a semi-annual basis. As part of this review, the management considers the cost 
of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital. The Group has a target gearing ratio of not exceeding 35% determined as the 
proportion of net debt to equity. The Group will continue to execute very disciplined control and management of its working capital and 
generate free cash inflows through the growth of the business.

The gearing ratio at the year end was as follows:

Debt (i)
Bank balances, deposits and cash

Net debt
Equity (ii)
Net debt to equity ratio

2016
US$’000

928,572
(804,741)

123,831
2,399,538
5.16%

2015
US$’000

1,064,042
(774,608)

289,434
2,155,983
13.42%

(i) 

Debt comprises obligations under finance leases, discounted bills with recourse, unsecured borrowings and bank overdrafts but excludes bank advances from 

factored trade receivables as detailed in Notes 24, 29, 33, 34 and 37 respectively.

(ii) 

Equity includes all capital and reserves attributable to the Owners of the Company.

In addition, based on management recommendations, the Group will balance its overall capital structure through the payment of 
dividends, new share issues and share buy-backs as well as the issue of new debt or the redemption of existing debt.

139

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

—

1,116

9,986

19,857

342

30,185

613

950,882
11,190
3,540
804,741

10,544

20,654

1,761

32,959

495

849,488
27,277
2,681
774,608

1,770,353

1,654,054

1,392

783
—

2,175

1,330,807
54,137
93,897
894,277
1,656

12,463

905
660

14,028

1,160,494
37,440
77,629
1,045,021
3,837

2,374,774

2,324,421

36. Financial Instruments

36.1  Categories of Financial Instruments

Financial assets
Fair value through profit or loss
  Held-for-trading investments

Derivative financial instruments
  Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment
Derivative financial instruments – under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts
Derivative financial instruments – not under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts

Available-for-sale investments

Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents)
  Trade and other receivables
  Bills receivable
  Trade receivables from an associate
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments – under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts
Derivative financial instruments – not under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts

Interest rate swap

Other financial liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Discounted bills with recourse
  Unsecured borrowings
  Bank overdrafts

140

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.2  Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies

The Group’s corporate treasury function provides risk management advice to the business units, co-ordinates access to domestic 
and international financial markets, monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group through 
internal risk reports which analyse exposures by degree and magnitude of risks. These financial risks include market risk (including 
currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk.

The Group seeks to minimise the effects of these risks by using derivative financial instruments or natural hedges to mitigate these 
risk exposures. The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the board of directors, which 
provide written principles on foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, the use of financial derivatives and non-derivative 
financial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity. Compliance with policies is reviewed by the internal auditors on a 
continuous basis. The Group does not enter into or trade derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.

36.2.1  Foreign Currency Risk Management

Subsidiaries of the Group have foreign currency sales and purchases, which expose the Group to foreign currency risk. 
Approximately 21.1% (2015: 21.3%) of the Group’s sales are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency 
of the group entity making the sale, whilst almost 52.5% (2015: 55.3%) of purchases are denominated in the group entity’s 
respective functional currency.

The carrying amounts of certain significant foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the 
reporting date are as follows:

Liabilities

Assets

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

Foreign Currency
EURO

98,830

75,545

159,456

137,851

Note:  For group entities with their functional currency as the United States dollar, monetary assets and monetary liabilities denominated in Hong Kong 

dollars have no material foreign currency risk exposure as the Hong Kong dollar is pegged with the United States dollar.

The Group requires its group entities to use foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the currency exposure. The foreign 
exchange forward contracts must be in the same currency as the hedged item. On this basis, the Group has entered into 
forward contracts in relation to the foreign currency amounting to US$157,799,000 (2015: US$184,717,000). It is the 
Group’s policy to negotiate the terms of the hedge derivatives to match the terms of the hedged item to maximise hedge 
effectiveness (see Note 27 for details).

141

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
36. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.2  Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

36.2.1  Foreign Currency Risk Management (continued)

Sensitivity Analysis
The Group is mainly exposed to the effects of rate fluctuations in the EURO against US$.

The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 5% increase and decrease in the United States dollar against the EURO 
without considering the foreign currency forward contracts entered at end of the reporting period. 5% is the sensitivity rate 
used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents management’s 
assessment of the reasonably possible change in the EURO:US$ foreign exchange rate. The sensitivity analysis includes 
outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and excludes the effect of any foreign currency forward contracts 
held at the reporting date. A positive number below indicates an increase in profit for the year where the United States dollar 
weakens 5% against the EURO.

Impact of EURO
Profit for the year (i)

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2,816

2,966

(i) 

This is mainly attributable to the exposure outstanding on receivables and payables denominated in EURO at the reporting date.

36.2.2  Interest Rate Risk Management

The Group’s cash flow interest rate risk relates primarily to variable-rate borrowing (see Note 37 for details of these 
borrowings), discounted bills with recourse, bank overdrafts and bank balances and deposits. In relation to these floating-rate 
borrowings, the Group aims at keeping certain borrowings at fixed rates. In order to achieve this result, the Group enters into 
interest rate swap contracts to hedge against part of its exposure to potential variability of cash flows arising from changes in 
floating rates (see Note 27 for details). The management continuously monitors interest rate fluctuations and will consider 
further hedging interest rate risk should the need arise.

The Group’s exposure to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management 
section of this note. The Group’s cash flow interest rate risk is mainly concentrated on the fluctuation of London Interbank 
Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) arising from the Group’s Hong Kong dollar denominated borrowings. In relation to interest bearing 
bank balances and deposits, the Group considers the interest rate risk is insignificant.

During the year, the Group obtained new bank borrowings of US$1,669 million (2015: US$2,405 million) which are either at 
LIBOR or Hong Kong best lending rates based. The proceeds were used for refinancing the Group’s borrowings.

142

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
36. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.2  Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

36.2.2  Interest Rate Risk Management (continued)

Sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for non-derivative instruments. 
The analysis is prepared assuming the amount of the liability outstanding at the end of the reporting period was outstanding 
for the whole year without considering the interest rate swaps entered at the end of the reporting period. A 50 basis point 
increase or decrease in LIBOR is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and 
represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.

If interest rates had been 50 basis points higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s post-tax profit 
for the year ended December 31, 2016 would decrease/increase by US$4,598,000 (2015: decrease/increase by 
US$5,156,000). This is mainly attributable to the Group’s exposure to interest rates on its variable-rate borrowings.

The Group’s sensitivity to interest rates has decreased during the current period mainly due to the decrease in variable rate 
debt instruments respectively.

36.2.3  Other Price Risk

The Group is exposed to price risk through its held-for-trading investments and derivative financial instruments.

Sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to price risks of equity investments held-for-
trading measured at fair value at the reporting date.

If the prices of the respective equity instruments had been 10% higher the profit for the year ended December 31, 2016 of 
the Group would not increase (2015: increase by US$112,000) as a result of the changes in fair value of held-for-trading 
investments.

36.2.4  Credit Risk Management

As at December 31, 2016, the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk which will cause a financial loss to the Group due to 
failure to discharge an obligation by the counterparties and financial guarantees provided by the Group is arising from:

• 

• 

the carrying amount of the respective recognised financial assets as stated in the statements of financial position; and

the amount of contingent liabilities in relation to financial guarantees issued by the Group as disclosed in Note 44.

In order to minimise the credit risk, the management has delegated a team responsible for determination of credit limits, 
credit approvals and other monitoring procedures to ensure that follow-up action is taken to recover overdue debts. In 
addition, the Group reviews the recoverable amount of each individual trade debt and debt investments at each reporting 
date to ensure that adequate impairment losses are made for irrecoverable amounts. In this regard, the directors of the 
Company consider that the Group’s credit risk is significantly reduced.

The credit risk on liquid funds is limited for the Group because the counterparties are banks with good reputations and credit 
ratings.

The Group’s concentration of credit risk by geographical location is mainly in North America, where 65.9% (2015: 62.2%) of 
the total trade receivables as at December 31, 2016 are located.

The Group has concentration of credit risk as 28.0% (2015: 25.9%) and 39.2% (2015: 38.7%) of the total trade receivables 
were due from the Group’s largest customer and the five largest customers respectively.

143

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201636. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.2  Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

36.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management

Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the board of directors which has built an appropriate liquidity 
risk management framework for the management of the Group’s short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity 
management requirements. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and 
reserve borrowing facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of 
financial assets and liabilities.

As at December 31, 2016, the Group has available unutilised overdrafts and short and medium term bank loan facilities of 
approximately US$256 million (2015: US$103 million) and US$1,559 million (2015: US$1,583 million) respectively.

Liquidity Tables
The following tables detail the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities as well as 
non-derivative financial assets which are included in the maturity analysis. For non-derivative financial assets, the tables have 
been drawn up based on the contractual maturities of the undiscounted cash flow of the financial assets unless specified 
separately. For non-derivative financial liabilities, the tables reflect the undiscounted cash flow of financial liabilities based on 
the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay. The table includes both interest and principal cash flows. To the 
extent that the interest flows are floating rate, the undiscounted amount is derived from the interest rate curve at the end of 
the reporting period. The inclusion of information on non-derivative financial assets is necessary in order to understand the 
Group’s liquidity risk management as the liquidity is managed on a net asset and liability basis.

In addition, the following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments. The tables have 
been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual net cash inflows and (outflows) on derivative instruments that settle 
on a net basis, and the undiscounted gross inflows and (outflows) on those derivatives that require gross settlement. When 
the amount payable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the foreign currency exchange 
rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period. The liquidity analysis for the Group’s derivative financial instruments are 
prepared based on the contractual maturities as the management considers that the contractual maturities are essential for 
an understanding of the timing of the cash flows of derivatives.

Weighted 
average 
effective 
interest rate 
%

2016
Non-derivative financial assets
  Available-for-sale investments (Note)
  Trade and other receivables
  Bills receivable
  Trade receivables from an associate
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

—
—
—
—
0.001% - 0.70%

Non-derivative financial liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Discounted bills with recourse
  Variable rate borrowings
  Bank overdrafts
  Financial guarantee contracts

—
—
1.80%
0.72% - 2.60%
3.50% - 5.00%
—

Less than 
1 month/ 
on demand 
US$’000

539
666,428
10,927
4
789,722

1,467,620

(874,630)
(13,226)
(48,035)
(10,668)
(1,656)
(9,545)

1-3 months 
US$’000

4 months-
1 year 
US$’000

1-2 years 
US$’000

2+ years 
US$’000

Total 
undiscounted 
cash flows 
US$’000

Total carrying 
amount at 
December 31, 
2016 
US$’000

3
265,688
263
2,945
15,028

283,927

(390,748)
(40,911)
(45,725)
(254,860)
—
—

71
18,766
—
591
—

19,428

(65,429)
—
(277)
(140,731)
—
—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

613
950,882
11,190
3,540
804,750

613
950,882
11,190
3,540
804,741

1,770,975

1,770,966

—
—
—
(117,165)
—
—

—
—
—
(387,657)
—
—

(1,330,807)
(54,137)
(94,037)
(911,081)
(1,656)
(9,545)

(1,330,807)
(54,137)
(93,897)
(894,277)
(1,656)
—

(957,760)

(732,244)

(206,437)

(117,165)

(387,657)

(2,401,263)

(2,374,774)

144

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.2  Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

36.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity Tables (continued)

2016
Derivatives - net settlement
  Acquisition right of certain

  property, plant & equipment

Derivatives - gross settlement
  Foreign currency forward contracts

  – inflow
  – EUR
  – GBP
  – US$
  – AU$
  – NZ$

  – outflow
  – EUR
  – GBP
  – US$
  – AU$
  – NZ$

Weighted 
average 
effective 
interest rate 
%

Less than 
1 month/ 
on demand 
US$’000

1-3 months 
US$’000

4 months- 
1 year 
US$’000

1-2 years 
US$’000

2+ years 
US$’000

Total 
undiscounted 
cash flows 
US$’000

Total carrying 
amount at 
December 31, 
2016 
US$’000

—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—

—

—

—

—

1,417
5,498
20,318
1,408
2,000

30,641

(1,450)
(5,398)
(20,521)
(1,420)
(2,114)

19,928
11,034
69,258
2,526
4,000

106,746

(18,762)
(10,787)
(67,973)
(2,562)
(4,230)

29,276
44,852
305,010
4,552
18,000

401,690

(27,551)
(43,179)
(292,282)
(4,627)
(18,197)

(30,903)

(104,314)

(385,836)

(262)

2,432

15,854

—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—

9,986

9,986

9,986

9,986

9,986

9,986

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—

50,621
61,384
394,586
8,486
24,000

539,077

(47,763)
(59,364)
(380,776)
(8,609)
(24,541)

50,621
61,384
394,586
8,486
24,000

539,077

(47,763)
(59,364)
(380,776)
(8,609)
(24,541)

(521,053)

(521,053)

18,024

18,024

145

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.2  Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

36.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity Tables (continued)

Weighted 
average 
effective 
interest rate
%

—
—
—
—
—
0.03% - 0.05%

—
—
1.43%
0.51% – 2.58%
3.25% – 5.00%
—

Less than 
1 month/ 
on demand
US$’000

1,116
492
619,098
14,967
4
749,966

1,385,643

(627,965)
(12,648)
(30,618)
(8,347)
(3,837)
(8,877)

(692,292)

1-3 months
US$’000

4 months-
1 year
US$’000

1-2 years
US$’000

2+ years
US$’000

Total 
undiscounted 
cash flows
US$’000

Total carrying 
amount at 
December 31, 
2015
US$’000

—
3
168,996
7,349
1,362
24,657

202,367

(370,181)
(24,792)
(35,657)
(462,181)
—
—

—
—
61,394
4,961
1,315
—

67,670

(162,348)
—
(11,561)
(120,379)
—
—

(892,811)

(294,288)

—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
(85,989)
—
—

(85,989)

—
—
—
—
—
—

—

1,116
495
849,488
27,277
2,681
774,623

1,116
495
849,488
27,277
2,681
774,608

1,655,680

1,655,665

—
—
—
(383,495)
—
—

(1,160,494)
(37,440)
(77,836)
(1,060,391)
(3,837)
(8,877)

(1,160,494)
(37,440)
(77,629)
(1,045,021)
(3,837)
—

(383,495)

(2,348,875)

(2,324,421)

2015
Non-derivative financial assets
  Held-for-trading investments (Note)
  Available-for-sale investments (Note)
  Trade and other receivables
  Bills receivable
  Trade receivables from an associate
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Non-derivative financial liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Discounted bills with recourse
  Variable rate borrowings
  Bank overdrafts
  Financial guarantee contracts

146

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.2  Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

36.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity Tables (continued)

Weighted 
average 
effective 
interest rate
%

Less than 
1 month/ 
on demand
US$’000

1-3 months
US$’000

4 months-
1 year
US$’000

1-2 years
US$’000

2+ years
US$’000

Total 
undiscounted 
cash flows
US$’000

Total carrying 
amount at 
December 31, 
2015
US$’000

2015
Derivatives - net settlement
  Acquisition right of certain

  property, plant & equipment
Interest rate swap

—
0.00% - 0.62%

  Foreign currency forward contracts

  – AU$
  – NZ$

Derivatives - gross settlement
  Foreign currency forward contracts

  – inflow
  – DKK
  – EUR
  – RMB
  – GBP
  – US$

  – outflow
  – DKK
  – EUR
  – RMB
  – GBP
  – US$

—
—

—
—
—
—
—

—
—
—
—
—

—
—

108
90

198

—
8,333
61,394
6,000
46,007

—
(388)

42
(50)

(396)

—
13,405
71,468
18,002
70,362

121,734

173,237

—
(8,178)
(62,198)
(5,664)
(43,912)

—
(13,094)
(72,734)
(17,024)
(68,500)

(119,952)

(171,352)

1,782

1,885

—
(310)

(150)
(921)

(1,381)

460
33,795
317,586
25,997
407,284

785,122

(450)
(32,936)
(325,776)
(24,545)
(395,154)

(778,861)

6,261

—
—

—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—

10,544
—

—
—

10,544

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—

10,544
(698)

—
(881)

8,965

460
55,533
450,448
49,999
523,653

10,544
(660)

—
(881)

9,003

460
55,533
450,448
49,999
523,653

1,080,093

1,080,093

(450)
(54,208)
(460,708)
(47,233)
(507,566)

(450)
(54,208)
(460,708)
(47,233)
(507,566)

(1,070,165)

(1,070,165)

9,928

9,928

Note:  Maturities are based on the management’s estimation of the expected realisation of these financial assets.

The amounts included above for financial guarantee contracts are the maximum amounts the Group could be required to 
settle under the arrangement for the full guaranteed amount if that amount is claimed by the counterparty to the guarantee. 
Based on expectations at the end of the reporting period, the Group considers that it is more likely than not that no amount 
will be payable under the arrangement. However, this estimate is subject to change depending on the probability of the 
counterparty claiming under guarantee which is a function of the likelihood that the financial receivables held by the 
counterparty which are guaranteed suffer credit losses.

The amount included above for variable interest rate instruments for non-derivative financial liabilities is subject to change if 
changes in variable interest rates differ to those estimates of interest rate determined at the end of the reporting period.

147

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.3 Fair Value

The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows:

• 

• 

• 

• 

the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves 
derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the contract;

the fair value of the interest rate swap is measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based 
on the applicable yield curves derived from noted interest rate;

the fair value of financial assets with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with 
reference to quoted market bid prices; and

the fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) are determined in accordance 
with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market 
transactions.

The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities carried at amortised cost approximate their carrying amounts.

Fair Value Measurements Recognised in the Statement of Financial Position
Fair value of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities are measured on a recurring basis.

Some of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period. The 
following table gives information about how the fair values of these financial assets and financial liabilities are determined (in 
particular, the valuation technique(s) and inputs used), as well as the level of the fair value hierarchy into which the fair value 
measurements are categorised (Levels 1 to 3) based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value measurements are 
observable.

• 

• 

• 

Level 1: fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or 
liabilities;

Level 2: fair value measurements are those derived from inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are 
observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and

Level 3: fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that 
are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).

148

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201636. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.3 Fair Value (continued)

Fair Value Measurements Recognised in the Statement of Financial Position (continued)

Financial assets / financial liabilities

Fair value

2016

2015

Fair value
hierarchy

Valuation techniques
and key inputs

1) 

2) 

3) 

4) 

Acquisition right of certain 
  property, plant and 
  equipment classified as 
  derivative financial 
instruments in the 

  consolidated statement of 

financial position

Foreign currency forward 
  contracts classified as 
  derivative financial 
instruments in the 

  consolidated statement of 

financial position

Acquisition right of
certain property,
plant and equipment:
US$9,986,000

Acquisition right of
certain property,
plant and equipment:
US$10,544,000

Assets – 
US$20,199,000; 
and Liabilities – 
US$2,175,000

Assets – 
US$22,415,000; 
and Liabilities – 
US$13,368,000

Level 2 Measured at the fair value of 

the land and buildings 

  associated with the 
  acquisition right which is 
  based on a valuation by 3rd 
  party independent valuer at 
the end of the financial year.

Level 2

Quoted forward exchange 

rates matching maturities of 
the contracts.

Held-for-trading non-derivative 
financial assets classified 

Unlisted investment
fund: Nil

Unlisted investment
fund: US$1,116,000

Level 2

Quoted prices provided by the 
fund administrator based on 
the prices of stocks invested 

  by the investment fund.

  as held-for-trading 
investments in the 

  consolidated statement of 

financial position

Interest rate swaps classified 
  as derivative financial 
instruments in the 

  consolidated statement of 

financial position

Liabilities
(not designate for
hedging) –
Nil

Liabilities
(not designated for
hedging) –
US$660,000

Level 2 Measured at the present value 
  of future cash flows 
  estimated and discounted 
  based on the applicable 
  yield curves derived from 
  quoted interest rates.

The directors of the Company consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised 
cost in the consolidated financial statements approximate their fair values. There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 in both 
periods.

149

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.3 Fair Value (continued)

Fair Value Measurements Recognised in the Statement of Financial Position (continued)

2016
Financial assets
Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment
Foreign currency forward contracts

Total

Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts

Total

2015
Financial assets
Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment
Foreign currency forward contracts
Held-for-trading investments

Total

Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts
Interest rate swap

Total

36.4 Transfer of Financial Assets

Level 2

Total
US$’000

9,986
20,199

30,185

(2,175)

(2,175)

10,544
22,415
1,116

34,075

(13,368)
(660)

(14,028)

The following were the Group’s financial assets as at December 31, 2016 that were transferred to banks by discounting or factoring 
those trade and bills receivables on a full recourse basis. As the Group has not transferred all of the significant risks and rewards 
relating to these receivables, it continues to recognise the full carrying amount of the receivables and has recognised the cash 
received on the transfer as discounted bills with recourse (see Note 34) and unsecured borrowings - due within one year (see Note 37). 
These financial assets are carried at amortised cost in the Group’s consolidated statement of financial position.

The trade and bills receivable discounted with banks with full recourse at the year end was as follows:

Carrying amount of transferred assets
Carrying amount of associated liabilities

Net position

2016
US$’000

168,897
(168,897)

2015
US$’000

152,629
(152,629)

—

—

150

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37. Unsecured Borrowings

Bank advance from factored trade receivables
Bank loans

Total borrowings

The borrowings of the Group are repayable as follows:

Floating rate
Within one year
In more than one year but not more than two years
In more than two years but not more than five years

Less: Amount due within one year shown under current liabilities

Amount due after one year

2016
US$’000

75,000
819,277

2015

US$’000

75,000
970,021

894,277

1,045,021

2016
US$’000

403,825
115,941
374,511

2015

US$’000

588,341
86,701
369,979

894,277

1,045,021

(403,825)

(588,341)

490,452

456,680

The ranges of effective interest rates (which are also equal to contracted interest rates) on the Group’s borrowings are as follows:

Effective interest rate:
  Variable-rate borrowings

2016

2015

0.72% to 2.60% 0.51% to 2.58%

The Group’s borrowings that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the relevant group entities are set out 
below:

As at December 31, 2016
As at December 31, 2015

US$’000

265,387
390,904

The carrying amount of bank borrowings approximates their fair value as the weighted average interest rates approximate the contracted 
market rates.

151

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38. Share Capital

Ordinary shares
Authorised shares

Issued and fully paid:
  At the beginning of the year

Issue of shares upon exercise of share options

  Buy-back of shares

At the end of the year

Details of the share options are set out in Note 45.

2015
Number of shares Number of shares

2016

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2,400,000,000

2,400,000,000

N/A

N/A

1,833,736,941
1,660,000
(1,500,000)

1,831,346,941
2,390,000
—

1,833,896,941

1,833,736,941

647,109
2,105
—

649,214

643,914
3,195
—

647,109

During the year, the Company bought back and cancelled its own shares through the Stock Exchange as follows:

Month of buy-back

November 2016
December 2016

No. of ordinary
shares

1,000,000
500,000

1,500,000

Price per share

Highest
HK$

28.00
28.60

Lowest
HK$

27.60
28.00

Aggregate
consideration
paid
US$’000

3,593
1,832

5,425

The shares bought back were settled and cancelled during the year. The consideration paid on the buy-back of the shares of 
approximately US$5,425,000 was charged to retained profits.

152

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39. Reserves

The Company
At January 1, 2015
Loss for the year
Fair value loss on foreign currency

forward contracts in hedge

  accounting

Other comprehensive loss for the year

Total comprehensive loss for the year

Shares issued at premium on
  exercise of options
Vesting of awarded shares
Shares for share award scheme
Recognition of equity settled
  share-based payments
Final dividend – 2014
Interim dividend – 2015

At December 31, 2015
Loss for the year

Other comprehensive income

for the year

Total comprehensive loss for the year

Shares issued at premium on
  exercise of options
Buy-back of shares
Vesting of awarded shares
Shares for share award scheme
Recognition of equity settled
  share-based payments
Final dividend – 2015
Interim dividend – 2016

Shares held
for share
award scheme
US$’000

Employee
share-based
compensation
reserve
US$’000

Hedging
reserve
US$’000

Retained
profits
US$’000

Total
US$’000

(2,441)
—

3,954
—

21,087
—

1,566,566
(47,502)

1,589,166
(47,502)

—

—

—

—
813
(7,626)

—
—
—

(9,254)
—

—

—

—
—
8,087
(9,309)

—
—
—

—

—

—

(637)
(813)
—

3,546
—
—

6,050
—

—

—

(401)
—
(8,087)
—

9,448
—
—

7,010

(21,087)

(21,087)

(21,087)

—
—
—

—
—
—

—
—

—

—

—
—
—
—

—
—
—

—

—

—

(47,502)

—
—
—

—
(44,799)
(37,726)

(21,087)

(21,087)

(68,589)

(637)
—
(7,626)

3,546
(44,799)
(37,726)

1,436,539
(92,062)

1,433,335
(92,062)

—

—

(92,062)

(92,062)

—
(5,425)
—
—

—
(54,881)
(47,240)

(401)
(5,425)
—
(9,309)

9,448
(54,881)
(47,240)

1,236,931

1,233,465

At December 31, 2016

(10,476)

As at December 31, 2016, the Company’s reserves available for distribution to shareholders comprised the retained profits of 
US$1,236,931,000 (2015: US$1,436,539,000).

153

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40. Retirement Benefit Obligations
Defined Contribution Plans:
The Company and its subsidiaries operating in Hong Kong have participated in the Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes (“MPF 
Schemes”) registered under the Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes Ordinance since December 2000. The assets of the MPF Schemes 
are held separately from those of the Group, in funds under the control of trustees. The Group contributes 5% of relevant payroll cost to 
the MPF Schemes with a maximum amount of HK$18,000 (2015: HK$18,000) per employee per annum, which contribution is matched 
by the employee.

The employees of the Group’s subsidiaries in the PRC are members of a state-managed retirement benefit scheme operated by the PRC 
government. The subsidiaries are required to contribute a specified percentage of payroll costs to the retirement benefit scheme to fund 
the benefits. The only obligation of the Group with respect to the retirement benefit scheme is to make the specified contributions.

The Group’s overseas subsidiaries operate a number of defined contribution schemes. Contributions to the defined contribution schemes 
applicable to each year are made at a certain percentage of the employees’ payroll.

The total expense recognised in profit or loss of US$9,160,000 (2015: US$7,996,000) represents contributions payable to these plans by 
the Group at rates specified in the rules of the plans.

Defined Benefits Plans:
The Group operates several defined benefit plans for qualifying employees of its subsidiaries in Germany and the US, of which these plans 
cover substantially all remaining employees that are not covered by defined contribution plans. The defined benefit plan is administered 
by a separate fund that is legally separated from the Group. The board of the pension fund is composed of an equal number of 
representatives from both employers and (former) employees. The board of the pension fund is required by law and by its articles of 
association to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme, i.e. active employees, inactive employees, 
retirees, employers. The board of the pension fund is responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund. The major 
defined benefit plans are as follows:

Pension plan obligations (Note i)
Post-retirement, medical and dental plan obligations (Note ii)
Life and medical insurance plan (Note ii)
Post-employment benefit plan obligations (Note iii)
Others

Note i: 

Pension plan obligations

2016
US$’000

78,020
68
1,630
11,234
17,215

108,167

2015

US$’000

77,871
126
1,109
9,813
10,977

99,896

The pension plan obligations are provided in the German operations and includes a plan that pays retirement benefits on service and final pay. In general, 

the benefit plans were closed to new members at the end of 1995. Under the plan, the employees are entitled to retirement benefits varying between 10% 

and 20% of final salary (based on the average of the last three years) on attainment of a retirement age of 65. The most recent actuarial valuations of the 

present value of the defined benefit obligations were carried out on January 1, 2017, by BDO AG Wirtschaftsprufungsgesellschaft, Germany.

Note ii: 

Post-retirement, medical and dental plan obligations/Life and medical insurance plan

Milwaukee Electric Tool Corporation, a subsidiary of the Group in the US, operates unfunded post-retirement, medical benefits, dental and life insurance 

plans. The most recent actuarial valuations of the present value of the obligations were carried out on December 19, 2016 by Willis Towers Watsons.

Note iii: 

Post-employment benefit plan obligations

The pension plan obligations are provided by Hoover Inc. for members of IBEW (International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers) Local 1985 employed by 

Hoover. The most recent actuarial valuation of the present value of the obligations were carried out on January 13, 2017 by CBIZ Benefits & Insurance 

Services.

154

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)

Defined Benefits Plans:(continued)
The plans in Germany and the US expose the Group to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and salary 
risk.

Investment risk

Interest rate risk

Longevity risk

Salary risk

The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate determined by reference 
to high quality corporate bond yields; if the return on plan asset is below this rate, it will create a plan deficit.
A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the plan liability; however, this will be partially offset by an 
increase in the return on the plan’s debt investments.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality 
of plan participants both during and after their employment. An increase in the life expectancy of the plan 
participants will increase the plan’s liability.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan 
participants. As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.

The risk relating to benefits to be paid to the dependents of plan members (widow and orphan benefits) is reinsured by an external 
insurance company.

The main actuarial assumptions used were as follows:

Discount rate
Expected rate of salary

increases

Expected return on plan assets
Future pension increases
Medical cost trend rates

Pension plan

Post-retirement medical 
and dental plan

Life & medical
insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2016

2015

2.00%

2.70%

0.75%

1.00%

2.75%

3.25%

4.11%

3.71%

2.00%
N/A
2.00%
N/A

2.00%
N/A
2.00%
N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

N/A
4.11%
N/A
N/A

N/A
3.71%
N/A
N/A

The actuarial valuation showed that the market value of plan assets was US$7,102,000 (2015: US$5,637,000) and that the actuarial 
value of these assets represented 38.7% (2015: 36.5%) of the benefits that had accrued to members.

The effect of an increase of one percentage point in the assumed medical cost trend rate on the aggregate of the current service cost and 
interest cost; and the accumulated post-employment benefit obligations are as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement medical
and dental plan

Life & medical
insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

Current service cost and

interest cost

Accumulated post-employment
  benefit obligations for 
  medical costs

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

—

—

—

1

3

106

2

66

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

155

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
40. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)

Amounts recognised in comprehensive income in respect of the plans are as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement medical 
and dental plan

Life & medical 
insurance plan

Post-employment 
benefit plan

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

418
1,463

300
2,022

1,881

2,322

—
1

1

—
1

1

—
34

34

4,838

744

(45)

(80)

550

4,838

6,719

744

3,066

(45)

(44)

(80)

(79)

550

584

—
34

34

43

43

77

—
295

295

—
232

232

4,625

3,920

4,625

4,920

3,920

4,152

Service cost:
  Current service cost
Net interest on defined benefit liabilities

Components of defined benefit costs

recognised in profit or loss

Remeasurement on the net defined 
  benefit liability:
  Actuarial losses (gains) arising from 
  changes in financial assumptions

Components of defined benefit costs 
recognised in other comprehensive 
income

Total

The charge for the year has been included in staff costs.

The amount included in the consolidated statement of financial position arising from the Group’s obligation in respect of the major plans is 
as follows:

Present value of funded obligations
Fair value of plan assets

Present value of unfunded obligations

Pension plan

Post-retirement medical 
and dental plan

Life & medical 
insurance plan

Post-employment 
benefit plan

2016
US$’000

—
—

—
78,020

78,020

2015
US$’000

—
—

—
77,871

77,871

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

—
—

—
68

68

—
—

—
126

126

—
—

—
1,630

1,630

—
—

—
1,109

1,109

2016
US$’000

18,336
(7,102)

11,234
—

11,234

2015
US$’000

15,450
(5,637)

9,813
—

9,813

156

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
40. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)

Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligations in the current year in respect of major plans were as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement medical 
and dental plan

Life & medical 
insurance plan

Post-employment 
benefit plan

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

77,871
(2,923)
418
4,838
1,463
(3,647)

78,020

87,027
(8,374)
300
744
2,022
(3,848)

77,871

126
—
—
(45)
1
(14)

68

220
—
—
(80)
1
(15)

126

1,109
—
—
550
34
(63)

1,630

1,100
—
—
43
34
(68)

1,109

15,450
—
—
4,332
600
(2,046)

18,336

13,106
—
—
3,666
482
(1,804)

15,450

At January 1
Exchange differences
Current service cost
Actuarial losses (gains)
Interest cost
Benefit paid

At December 31

Movements in the fair value of the plan assets in the current year in respect of certain major plans were as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement medical 
and dental plan

Life & medical 
insurance plan

Post-employment 
benefit plan

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

5,637
—
304
(293)
3,500
(2,046)

7,102

7,445
—
250
(254)
—
(1,804)

5,637

At January 1
Exchange differences
Expected return on plan assets
Actuarial losses
Contribution from employer
Benefit paid

At December 31

The plan assets of the post-employment benefit plan are cash and cash equivalents in a Federated Money Market Fund with an expected 
return of 4.11% (2015: 4.57%).

The actual return on plan assets was US$293,000 (2015: US$254,000).

The significant actuarial assumption for the determination of the defined obligation is the discount rate. If the discount rate is 100 basis 
points higher (lower), the effect on defined benefit obligation would be immaterial.

The Group expects to make no contribution (2015: a contribution of US$3,500,000) to the defined benefit plans during the next financial 
year.

157

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41. Deferred Tax Assets (Liabilities)

The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised and movements thereon during the current and prior year:

Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation
US$’000

Warranty 
provision
US$’000

Employee 
related 
provision
US$’000

3,823
(11)
(10,481)
—

(6,669)
(42)
(6,169)
—

6,256
(185)
5,583
—

11,654
(56)
2,015
—

38,241
(151)
3,748
1,823

43,661
(134)
1,767
2,905

Tax 
losses
US$’000

47,119
(15)
60,742
—

107,846
513
(18,407)
—

Inventory 
provision 
and LIFO
US$’000

8,283
(59)
5,057
—

13,281
(17)
(2,430)
42

Others 
US$’000

Total
US$’000

(21,176)
(62)
(13,653)
482

(34,409)
(831)
21,327
(21)

82,546
(483)
50,996
2,305

135,364
(567)
(1,897)
2,926

At January 1, 2015
Currency realignment
(Charge) credit to profit or loss
Credit to equity

At December 31, 2015
Currency realignment
(Charge) credit to profit or loss
Credit (charge) to equity

At December 31, 2016

(12,880)

13,613

48,199

89,952

10,876

(13,934)

135,826

For the purpose of presentation in the consolidated statement of financial position, certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been 
offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances for financial reporting purposes:

Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax liabilities

2016
US$’000

178,191
(42,365)

135,826

2015
US$’000

146,064
(10,700)

135,364

At the end of the reporting period, the Group has unused tax losses of US$848 million (2015: US$715 million) available for the offset 
against future taxable profits that carry forward for at least twenty years. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of tax losses 
of US$618 million (2015: US$443 million) due to the lack of probable future taxable profits.

42. Major Non-Cash Transactions

During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Group entered into finance lease arrangements in respect of assets at the inception of the 
finance leases of US$3,850,000 (2015: US$1,878,000).

43. Lease Commitments

At the end of the reporting period, the Group had outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as 
follows:

Within one year
In the second to fifth year inclusive
After five years

2016
US$’000

52,824
138,994
63,242

255,060

2015
US$’000

46,908
109,604
48,228

204,740

Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its plant and machinery, motor vehicles, office properties 
and other assets. Leases are negotiated for a term ranging from 1 year to 20 years.

158

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44. Contingent Liabilities

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

Guarantees given to banks in respect of credit facilities utilised by associates

9,545

8,877

In addition, the Company has given guarantees to banks in respect of general facilities granted to its subsidiaries. The extent of such 
facilities utilised by the subsidiaries as at December 31, 2016 amounted to US$235,920,000 (2015: US$207,031,000).

45. Share Options

Scheme adopted on May 29, 2007 (“Scheme D”)
Scheme D was adopted pursuant to a resolution passed on May 29, 2007 for recognition of the contribution to the development and 
growth of the Group by the eligible persons. This scheme will expire on May 28, 2017. Under Scheme D, the Board of Directors of the 
Company may grant share options to the following eligible persons (and their wholly owned companies) of the Company, its subsidiaries 
and any companies in which the Group holds any equity interest, to subscribe for shares in the Company:

(i) 

employees; or

(ii) 

non-executive Directors (including Independent Non-executive Directors or Officers); or

(iii) 

secondees; or

(iv)  business partners, agents, consultants; or

(v) 

suppliers or customers; or

(vi) 

any person or entity that provides research, development or other technological support; or

(vii)  shareholders.

Share options granted must be taken up within 21 days of the date of grant, upon payment of HK$1.00 in cash by way of consideration 
for the grant thereof. Share options may be exercised at any time, subject to vesting conditions from the date of grant to the tenth 
anniversary thereof. The subscription price is set at the highest of: the closing price of the shares on the date of offer of the share option; 
or the average closing price of shares as stated in the daily quotation sheets issued by the Stock Exchange for the five trading days 
immediately preceding the date of offer; or the nominal value of shares on the date of offer.

The maximum number of shares in respect of which share options may be granted under Scheme D is not permitted to exceed 30.0% of 
the issued share capital of the Company from time to time or 10.0% of shares in issue as at the adoption date of Scheme D. No person 
shall be granted an option which exceeds 1.0% of the shares in issue as at the date of offer in any 12-month period up to the date 
thereof.

Options may be exercised at any time after the first anniversary of the date of grant of the share option to the tenth anniversary of the date 
of grant. The exercise price is determined by the Directors of the Company and will not be less than the higher of (i) the closing price of 
the Company’s shares on the date of grant, (ii) the average closing price of the shares for the five business days immediately preceding 
the date of grant; and (iii) the nominal value of the Company’s shares.

159

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45. Share Options (continued)

The following tables disclose movements in the Company’s share options during the year:

Date of

Share option

Outstanding 

share options

granted

scheme

category

at beginning

of the year

Granted

during

the year

Exercised

during

the year

Lapsed

during

the year

Outstanding

at end of

the year

Subscription

price

HK$

Exercise period

2016

Share option holders

Directors

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

21.5.2012

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

16.11.2009

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

11.9.2015

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

11.9.2015

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Total for directors

Employees

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

11.9.2015

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

11.9.2015

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

11.9.2015

24.8.2007

16.10.2007

7.11.2007

14.1.2008

17.4.2008

14.5.2008

30.5.2008

16.11.2009

28.12.2009

17.1.2011

Total for employees

Total for all categories

Exercisable at the end of the year

160

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

230,000

168,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

250,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

250,000

1,000,000

250,000

150,000

150,000

100,000

250,000

150,000

200,000

200,000

250,000

150,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

150,000

8,748,000

730,000

50,000

40,000

505,000

350,000

40,000

250,000

1,570,000

30,000

20,000

3,585,000

12,333,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(100,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(400,000)

(200,000)

(250,000)

—

(950,000)

(60,000)

(35,000)

(40,000)

(75,000)

(100,000)

—

(250,000)

(150,000)

—

—

(710,000)

(1,660,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

230,000

168,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

250,000

21.600  
29.650  

20.3.2015  -  19.3.2024
11.9.2016  -  10.9.2025

8.742  
21.600  
29.650  

21.5.2013  -  20.5.2022
20.3.2015  -  19.3.2024
11.9.2016  -  10.9.2025

1,000,000

6.770   16.11.2010  -  15.11.2019

21.600  
29.650  

20.3.2015  -  19.3.2024
11.9.2016  -  10.9.2025

21.600  
29.650  

20.3.2015  -  19.3.2024
11.9.2016  -  10.9.2025

29.650  

11.9.2016  -  10.9.2025

29.650  

11.9.2016  -  10.9.2025

9.872  
8.742  
29.650  

23.5.2012  -  22.5.2021
21.5.2013  -  20.5.2022
11.9.2016  -  10.9.2025

6.770   16.11.2010  -  15.11.2019
23.5.2012  -  22.5.2021
9.872  
21.5.2013  -  20.5.2022
8.742  
11.9.2016  -  10.9.2025
29.650  

6.770   16.11.2010  -  15.11.2019
23.5.2012  -  22.5.2021
9.872  
21.5.2013  -  20.5.2022
8.742  
11.9.2016  -  10.9.2025
29.650  

8.390  
24.8.2008  -  23.8.2017
8.810   16.10.2008  -  15.10.2017
7.11.2008  -  6.11.2017
8.088  
14.1.2009  -  13.1.2018
7.566  
17.4.2009  -  16.4.2018
7.780  
14.5.2009  -  13.5.2018
7.500  
7.546  
30.5.2009  -  29.5.2018
6.770   16.11.2010  -  15.11.2019
6.390   28.12.2010  -  27.12.2019
17.1.2012  -  16.1.2021
10.436  

1,000,000

250,000

1,000,000

250,000

150,000

150,000

—

250,000

150,000

200,000

200,000

250,000

150,000

—

—

—

150,000

7,798,000

670,000

15,000

—

430,000

250,000

40,000

—

1,420,000

30,000

20,000

2,875,000

10,673,000

9,839,000

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45. Share Options (continued)

The following tables disclose movements in the Company’s share options during the year: (continued)

Date of

Share option

share options

granted

scheme

category

Outstanding

at beginning

of the year

Exercised

during

the year

Lapsed

during

the year

Outstanding

at end of

the year

2015

Share option holders

Directors

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

26.11.2010

21.5.2012

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

21.5.2012

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

16.11.2009

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

11.9.2015

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

11.9.2015

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

11.9.2015

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

11.9.2015

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

11.9.2015

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

Granted

during

the year

—

—

—

168,000

—

—

—

250,000

150,000

150,000

—

—

150,000

—

—

—

150,000

—

—

—

150,000

(600,000)

(570,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

250,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

—

—

—

250,000

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

600,000

570,000

230,000

—

1,000,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

—

—

—

100,000

250,000

—

200,000

200,000

250,000

—

400,000

200,000

250,000

—

200,000

250,000

Total for directors

8,700,000

1,668,000

(1,620,000)

—

—

(200,000)

(250,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

230,000

168,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

250,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

250,000

1,000,000

250,000

150,000

150,000

100,000

250,000

150,000

200,000

200,000

250,000

150,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

150,000

—

—

8,748,000

Subscription

price

HK$

8.310

8.742

21.600

29.650

8.742

21.600

29.650

Exercise period

26.11.2011 
21.5.2013 
20.3.2015 
11.9.2016 

-  25.11.2020
- 
20.5.2022
- 
- 

10.9.2025

19.3.2024

21.5.2013 
20.3.2015 
11.9.2016 

- 
- 
- 

20.5.2022

19.3.2024

10.9.2025

6.770

16.11.2010 

-  15.11.2019

- 
- 

- 
- 

- 

- 

- 
- 
- 

19.3.2024

10.9.2025

19.3.2024

10.9.2025

10.9.2025

10.9.2025

22.5.2021

20.5.2022

10.9.2025

-  15.11.2019
- 
22.5.2021
- 
- 

20.5.2022

10.9.2025

-  15.11.2019
- 
22.5.2021
- 
- 

20.5.2022

10.9.2025

21.600

29.650

21.600

29.650

20.3.2015 
11.9.2016 

20.3.2015 
11.9.2016 

29.650

11.9.2016 

29.650

11.9.2016 

23.5.2012 
21.5.2013 
11.9.2016 

16.11.2010 
23.5.2012 
21.5.2013 
11.9.2016 

16.11.2010 
23.5.2012 
21.5.2013 
11.9.2016 

9.872

8.742

29.650

6.770

9.872

8.742

29.650

6.770

9.872

8.742

29.650

9.872

8.742

23.5.2012 
21.5.2013 

- 
- 

22.5.2021

20.5.2022

161

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exercise period

16.4.2018

13.1.2018

24.8.2008  - 
23.8.2017
16.10.2008  -  15.10.2017
7.11.2008  - 
6.11.2017
14.1.2009  - 
17.4.2009  - 
14.5.2009  - 
30.5.2009  - 
29.5.2018
16.11.2010  -  15.11.2019
28.12.2010  -  27.12.2019
13.9.2011  - 
12.9.2020
17.1.2012  - 

13.5.2018

16.1.2021

45. Share Options (continued)

The following tables disclose movements in the Company’s share options during the year: (continued)

2015

Date of share

Share option

beginning of the

Granted during

Exercised during

Lapsed during

Outstanding at

Subscription

Outstanding at

Share option holders

options granted

scheme category

year

the year

the year

the year

end of the year

Employees

Total for employees

Total for all categories

Exercisable at the end of the year

24.8.2007

16.10.2007

7.11.2007

14.1.2008

17.4.2008

14.5.2008

30.5.2008

16.11.2009

28.12.2009

13.9.2010

17.1.2011

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

830,000

60,000

40,000

505,000

400,000

40,000

250,000

1,680,000

30,000

500,000

20,000

4,355,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(100,000)

(10,000)

—

—

(50,000)

—

—

(110,000)

—

(500,000)

—

(770,000)

13,055,000

1,668,000

(2,390,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

730,000

50,000

40,000

505,000

350,000

40,000

250,000

1,570,000

30,000

—

20,000

3,585,000

12,333,000

9,050,000

price

HK$

8.390

8.810

8.088

7.566

7.780

7.500

7.546

6.770

6.390

7.390

10.436

162

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45. Share Options (continued)

The following significant assumptions were used to derive the fair values using the Black-Scholes option pricing model:

Date of grant

For the year ended December 31, 2015
11.9.2015

Expected volatility
based on
historical volatility
of share prices

Hong Kong
Exchange Fund
Notes rate/Yields
of Hong Kong
Government Bonds

Expected annual
dividend yield

Expected life of
share options

Exercise price
HK$

29.650

3 years

40%

0.523%

1.5%

The share options are vested in parts over 1 to 2 years from the date of grant.

Expected volatility was determined by using the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the previous 3 years. The expected 
life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions 
and behavioural considerations.

The Black-Scholes option pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the volatility of the share price. 
Because changes in subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in the directors’ opinion, the existing model 
does not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of the share options.

The weighted average closing price of shares immediately before the options grant date during 2015 was HK$29.80.

The closing price of the Company’s shares immediately before the date of grant was HK$29.80 in 2015.

The weighted average closing prices of the Company’s shares immediately before various dates during 2016 and 2015 on which the share 
options were exercised were HK$30.75 and HK$29.83 respectively.

The Group recognised a total expense of US$1,069,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016 (2015: US$1,189,000) in relation to 
share options granted by the Company.

The fair value of the share options granted in 2015 measured at the date of grant was HK$7.39 per option.

The Company had 10,673,000 share options outstanding, which represented approximately 0.58% of the issued share capital of the 
Company as at December 31, 2016. No option was cancelled during the year.

Total securities available for issue under Scheme D are 150,505,065 shares, which represented approximately 8.21% of the issued shares 
of the Company as at December 31, 2016.

163

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46. Share Award Scheme

The purpose of the share award scheme is to recognise the contributions by certain eligible persons and to provide them with incentives 
in order to retain them for the continual operation and development of the Group and to attract suitable personnel for further development 
of the Group.

The share award scheme of the Company was adopted by the Board of Directors on January 9, 2008. The Board may from time to time at 
their absolute discretion select any eligible person for participation in the scheme as a selected grantee and determine the number of 
shares to be awarded or make reference to a nominal amount. The Board must cause to be paid to the trustee the purchase price and the 
related expenses. The trustee must either purchase shares from the market or subscribe for new shares. The trustee must hold the shares 
until they are vested in accordance with the scheme rules. When the selected grantee has satisfied all vesting conditions specified by the 
Board at the time of making the award and becomes entitled to the shares forming the subject of the award, the trustee will transfer the 
relevant vested shares together with the income derived therefrom (net of accrued interest) to the selected grantee.

An award of shares automatically lapses when, (i) a selected grantee who is an employee ceases to be an employee; or (ii) the subsidiary 
by which a selected grantee is employed ceases to be a subsidiary of the Company (or of a member of the Group); or (iii) a selected 
grantee who is a Director of the Company or a subsidiary ceases to be a director of the same; or (iv) an order for the winding-up of the 
Company is made or a resolution is passed (otherwise than for certain purposes) for the voluntary winding-up of the Company, and, in any 
such case, the award, unless the Board otherwise agrees, automatically lapses forthwith and all the awarded shares and related income of 
such award do not vest on the relevant vesting date but become returned shares for the purpose of the scheme.

Recognition of share-based payment expenses under the share award scheme during the year was US$8,379,000 (2015: US$2,357,000). 
During 2016, 2,324,500 shares (2015: 274,500) were transferred to the awardees upon vesting.

(i)  Movements in the number of awarded shares and their related average fair value were as follows:

At January 1
Awarded (Note (a))
Vested

At December 31 (Note (b))

Notes:

Number

2016

2015

2,349,500
1,000,000
(2,324,500)

824,000
1,800,000
(274,500)

1,025,000

2,349,500

(a) 

All the awarded shares were purchased from the market.

(b) 

At the end of the year, the average fair value per share is HK$29.22 (2015: HK$26.00). The average fair value of the awarded shares is based on the 

average purchase cost.

(ii) 

The remaining vesting periods of the awarded shares outstanding are as follows:

Number of awarded shares

2016

2015

1,025,000
—

1,324,500
1,025,000

1,025,000

2,349,500

Less than 1 year
More than 1 year

164

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
47. Capital Commitments

Capital expenditure in respect of the acquisition of
  property, plant and equipment contracted for but not
  provided in the consolidated financial statements

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

32,828

20,942

48. Related Party Transactions

During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions with its associates, which did not constitute connected transactions 
under Chapter 14A of the Listing Rules:

Sales income
Purchases

The remuneration of directors and other members of key management during the year was as follows:

Short-term benefits
Post-employment benefits
Share-based payments

2016
US$’000

7,281
7,204

2016
US$’000

43,225
717
6,942

50,884

2015
US$’000

9,305
7,003

2015
US$’000

46,078
607
3,546

50,231

Details of the balances and transactions with related parties are set out in the statements of financial position and Notes 21, 26 and 44.

165

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
49. Statement of Financial Position of the Company

As at December 31, 2016

Note

2016
US$’000

2015
US$’000

ASSETS
Non-current assets
  Property, plant and equipment

Intangible assets
Investments in subsidiaries

  Loans to subsidiaries
Interests in associates

  Available-for-sale investments

Current assets
  Other receivables
  Deposits and prepayments
  Amounts due from subsidiaries
  Derivative financial instruments
  Held-for-trading investments
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Current liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Tax payable
  Derivative financial instruments
  Amounts due to subsidiaries
  Unsecured borrowings - due within one year

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Capital and Reserves
  Share capital
  Reserves

Non-current Liabilities
  Unsecured borrowings - due after one year

Total equity and non-current liabilities

4,132
7
1,147,043
791,656
2,376
228

3,594
10
1,020,765
856,681
5,298
183

1,945,442

1,886,531

—
10,056
2,043,260
—
—
267,280

4,372
8,483
1,863,707
35
1,116
220,712

2,320,596

2,098,425

42,530
2,700
—
1,530,083
317,594

32,486
2,700
684
911,746
500,216

1,892,907

1,447,832

427,689

650,593

2,373,131

2,537,124

39

649,214
1,233,465

647,109
1,433,335

1,882,679

2,080,444

490,452

456,680

2,373,131

2,537,124

The Company’s statements of financial position was approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on March 14, 2017 and 
are signed on its behalf by:

Chi Chung Chan
Group Executive Director

Stephan Horst Pudwill
Vice Chairman

166

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50. Particulars of Principal Subsidiaries

Particulars of the principal subsidiaries of the Company as at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 are as follows:

Name of subsidiary

Place of
incorporation/
operation

Issued and
fully paid
share capital

Proportion of
nominal value of
issued capital held
by the Company

Baja, Inc.

US

US$ 17.36

DreBo Werkzeugfabrik GmbH *

Germany

EUR 1,000,000

Homelite Consumer Products, Inc.

US

Hoover Inc.

US

US$ 10

US$ 1

Marco Polo Industries &
  Merchandising Company Limited

Hong Kong

HK$ 100,000

Milwaukee Electric Tool Corporation

US

US$ 50,000,000

One World Technologies, Inc.

US

US$ 10

Royal Appliance International GmbH

Germany

EUR 2,050,000

Royal Appliance Mfg. Co.

US

US$ 1

Sang Tech Industries Limited

Hong Kong

HK$ 1,000,000

Santo Industries Limited

Hong Kong

HK$ 2,000,000

Directly
%

—

—

—

—

100

—

—

100

—

100

100

Solar Wide Industrial Limited

Hong Kong

HK$ 2,000,000

75.725

Techtronic Floor Care
  Technology Limited

Techtronic Industries

(Dongguan) Co. Ltd.#

BVI

PRC

US$ 1

US$ 47,000,000

Techtronic Industries (Taiwan) Co. Ltd. Taiwan

NT$ 5,000,000

Techtronic Industries (UK) Ltd

United Kingdom

GBP 4,000,000

100

—

100

—

Indirectly
%

100

Principal activities

Trading of outdoor power
  equipment products

100

Trading and manufacture of

 power equipment products

100

100

—

100

100

—

100

—

—

—

—

100

—

100

Trading of outdoor power
  equipment products

Trading and manufacture 
  of floor care products

Trading of household
  electronic and
  electrical products

Trading and manufacture of
  power equipment products

Trading of power 
  equipment products

Trading of floor care products

Trading and manufacture of floor 
  care products

Manufacture of plastic parts

Manufacture of metallic parts

Manufacture of
  electronic products

Investment and intellectual
  properties holding

Manufacture of power equipment, 
floor care and outdoor power

  equipment products

Provision of inspection services

Trading of power equipment
  products

167

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50. Particulars of Principal Subsidiaries (continued)

Name of subsidiary

Place of
incorporation/
operation

Issued and
fully paid
share capital

Proportion of
nominal value of
issued capital held
by the Company

Principal activities

Directly
%

—

—

—

—

—

100

—

100

100

100

100

100

100

Indirectly
%

100

100

100

100

100

—

100

—

—

—

—

—

—

Trading of power
  equipment, floor care and
  outdoor power
  equipment products

Trading of power
  equipment products

Trading of power equipment
  products and outdoor power
  equipment products

Trading of power equipment 
  products

Trading and manufacture of power
  equipment products

Trading of power equipment 
products

Trading of power equipment, floor
  care and outdoor power
  equipment products

Trading of power equipment, floor
  care and outdoor power
  equipment products

Investment holding

Investment and intellectual
  properties holding

Investment and intellectual
  properties holding

Engage in research and
  development activities

Trading of power equipment, floor
  care and outdoor power
  equipment products

Techtronic Industries Australia
  Pty. Limited

Australia

AU$ 25,575,762

Techtronic Industries Central
  Europe GmbH*

Germany

EUR 25,600

Techtronic Industries ELC GmbH*

Germany

EUR 25,000

Techtronic Industries France SAS

France

EUR 14,919,832

Techtronic Industries GmbH

Germany

EUR 20,452,500

Techtronic Industries Korea Limited

Korea

KRW 3,400,000,000

Techtronic Industries Mexico, 
  S.A. de C.V.

Mexico

MXN 50,000
(Serie I)
MXN362,720,990
(2015: 
MXN53,290,717)
(Serie II)

Techtronic Industries N.Z. Limited

New Zealand

NZ$ 4,165,500

Techtronic Industries North 
  America, Inc.

US

US$ 10

Bermuda

US$ 12,000

Techtronic Outdoor Products
  Technology Limited

Techtronic Power Tools
  Technology Limited

Techtronic Product
  Development Limited

BVI

Hong Kong

Techtronic Trading Limited

Hong Kong

168

US$ 1

HK$ 2

HK$ 2

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50. Particulars of Principal Subsidiaries (continued)

Name of subsidiary

Place of
incorporation/
operation

Issued and
fully paid
share capital

TTI (Macao Commercial Offsore)
  Limited (formerly known as AC
(Macao Commercial Offsore)

  Limited name changed on
  September 29, 2016)

TTI Investments (Dongguan)
  Company Limited

Macau

MOP 780,000

Hong Kong

HK$ 2

Vax Limited

United Kingdom

GBP 30,000
(Ordinary A shares)
GBP 2,500
(Ordinary B shares)

* 

# 

Exempt from the obligation to publish local financial statements.

A wholly foreign owned enterprise.

Proportion of
nominal value of
issued capital held
by the Company

Directly
%

—

Indirectly
%

100

Principal activities

Trading of power equipment, floor
  care and outdoor power
  equipment products

100

100

—

—

Investment holding

Trading of household electrical 
  and floor care products

The above table lists the subsidiaries of the Company which, in the opinion of the directors, principally affected the results or assets of the 
Group. To give details of other subsidiaries would, in the opinion of the directors, result in particulars of excessive length.

At the end of the reporting period, the Company has other subsidiaries that are not material to the Group. The principal activities of these 
subsidiaries are summarised as follows:

Principal activities

Principal place of business

Number of subsidiaries

Manufacture of power equipment, floor care 
  and outdoor power equipment products
Trading of power equipment, floor care 
  and outdoor power equipment product
Investment holding
Dormant

Europe, Latin America, PRC, US

Canada, Europe, HK, Latin America,
  PRC, US
Australia, BVI, Europe, HK, US
BVI, Europe, HK, US

2016

2015

5

33
23
13

5

33
23
12

None of the subsidiaries had any debt securities outstanding at the end of the year, or at any time during the year.

169

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51. Particulars of Principal Associate

Particulars of the principal associate are as follows:

Name of associate

Place of
incorporation/
operation

Issued and fully
paid share 
capital

Proportion of nominal value
of issued capital held by the
Company directly

Principal activities

Gimelli International
(Holdings) Limited

The Cayman Islands

US$ 6,250

2016
%

40.8

2015
%

40.8

Investment holding

170

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results

Revenue

Profit before taxation

Taxation charge

Profit for the year

Attributable to:

  Owners of the Company

  Non-controlling interests

Profit for the year

Year ended December 31

2012
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2016
US$’000

3,852,418

4,299,755

4,752,960

5,038,004

5,480,413

222,246

(22,139)

200,107

200,991

(884)

200,107

276,398

(29,036)

247,362

250,284

(2,922)

247,362

325,159

(25,680)

299,479

300,330

(851)

299,479

386,957

(32,814)

354,143

440,029

(31,242)

408,787

354,427

408,982

(284)

(195)

354,143

408,787

Basic earnings per share (US cents)

11.42

13.68

16.41

19.37

22.32

Assets and Liabilities

Total assets

Total liabilities

2012
US$’000

3,581,078

2,024,556

As at December 31

2013
US$’000

4,012,559

2,267,123

2014
US$’000

4,351,383

2,384,357

2015
US$’000

4,802,718

2,647,146

2016
US$’000

5,120,407

2,721,475

1,556,522

1,745,436

1,967,026

2,155,572

2,398,932

Equity attributable to Owners of the Company

1,548,877

1,740,713

1,967,153

2,155,983

2,399,538

Non-controlling interests

7,645

4,723

(127)

(411)

(606)

1,556,522

1,745,436

1,967,026

2,155,572

2,398,932

171

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Financial Summary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Listing Information
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
  Ordinary Shares (stock code: 669)
ADR Level 1 Programme (symbol: TTNDY)

Share Registrar and Transfer Office
Tricor Secretaries Limited
Level 22, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East
Hong Kong
Tel: (852) 2980 1888

ADR Depositary
The Bank of New York

Principal Bankers
Bank of America, N.A.
Bank of China
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
Standard Chartered Bank
Citibank N.A.
The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.
Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Hong Kong Branch

Solicitors
Vincent T.K. Cheung, Yap & Co.

Auditor
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu

Company Secretary
Ms Veronica Ka Po Ng

Trademarks
All Trademarks and Trade names listed other than AEG, BLUETOOTH 
  and RYOBI are owned by the Group.

AEG is a registered trademark of AB Electrolux (publ.), and is used 
  under license.

The BLUETOOTH word mark and logos are registered trademarks 
  owned by Bluetooth SIG, Inc. and any use of such marks by the 
  Group is under license.

RYOBI is a registered trademark of Ryobi Limited, and is used under 
  license.

Board of Directors
Group Executive Directors
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill
Chairman

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill
Vice Chairman

Mr Joseph Galli Jr
Chief Executive Officer

Mr Patrick Kin Wah Chan
Mr Frank Chi Chung Chan

Non-executive Directors
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP
Mr Camille Jojo

Independent Non-executive Directors
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung
Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse

Financial Calendar 2017
March 14 
May 16 

: Announcement of 2016 annual results
: Last day to register for the entitlement to
    attend and vote at Annual General Meeting
: Book closure period for the entitlement to
    attend and vote at Annual General Meeting
: Annual General Meeting
: Last day to register for 2016 final dividend
: Book closure for 2016 final dividend
: Final dividend payment
: Six months interim period end
: Financial year end

May 17-19 

May 19 
May 25 
May 26 
June 23 
June 30 
December 31 

Investor Relations Contact
Investor Relations and Communications
Techtronic Industries Co. Ltd.
29/F, Tower 2
Kowloon Commerce Centre
51 Kwai Cheong Road
Kwai Chung, N.T.
Hong Kong
email: ir@tti.com.hk

Website
www.ttigroup.com
Earnings results, annual/interim reports are available online.

172

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2016Corporate Information 
 
Published by Techtronic Industries Co. Ltd.
© 2017 Techtronic Industries Co. Ltd.

