Annual Report

2018 

Power Equipment,  
Accessories, Hand Tools 
and Storage

see page 10

Outdoor 
Products

see page 36

Floor Care and  
Appliances

see page 42

Contents

Company Profile

2  Financial Highlights

4  Chairman’s Statement

6 Chief Executive Officer’s Message

10 Power Equipment, Accessories, Hand Tools and Storage

42 Floor Care and Appliances

50 Management’s Discussion and Analysis

60 Board of Directors 

66 Corporate Governance Report

78 Environmental, Social and Governance Report

112 Report of the Directors

122 Independent Auditor’s Report

126 Consolidated Financial Statements

132 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

215 Financial Summary

216 Corporate Information

Techtronic Industries Company Limited (the “Company”, the “Group” 
or “TTI”) is a fast growing world leader in Power Tools, Accessories, 
Hand Tools, Outdoor Power Equipment, and Floor Care and Appliances 
for Do-It-Yourselfer (DIY), professional and industrial users in  
the home improvement, repair, maintenance, construction and 
infrastructure industries. TTI is accelerating the transformation  
of these industries through environmentally friendly cordless 
technology.

An unrelenting strategic focus on Powerful Brands, Innovative 
Products, Operational Excellence and Exceptional People drives  
our culture. The TTI brands like MILWAUKEE, RYOBI, and HOOVER, 
and their products are recognized worldwide for their deep heritage, 
superior quality, outstanding performance and compelling innovation. 
Through an ongoing company-wide commitment to cordless 
technology, innovation and strong customer partnerships, TTI 
consistently delivers exciting new products that enhance customer 
satisfaction and productivity. This focus and drive provides TTI with  
a powerful platform for sustainable leadership and strong growth.

Founded in 1985 and listed on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong 
(“SEHK”) in 1990, TTI is included in the Hang Seng Index as one  
of their fifty constituent stocks. The Company has a worldwide 
customer reach, and over 23,000 staff. TTI maintains a healthy 
financial position and in 2018 had worldwide annual sales of over 
US$7 billion.

Financial Highlights

• Record results on strong organic growth, fueled by new cordless products

• Sales expanded by 15.8% and net profit grew 17.4%

• Gross margin improvement for the tenth consecutive year

• Milwaukee Tool delivered an outstanding 28.2% sales growth

• RYOBI ONE+ sales grew double-digit

• Floor Care and Appliance business improved, growing sales 9.3%

9th
consecutive year  
of record revenue

Revenue

US$m

11th
consecutive year  
of record profit

Net Profit

US$m

2

+15.8%

US$7,021 million

+17.4%

US$552 million

200030004000500060007000'12'11'10'18'17'16'15'13'143,0002,0004,0005,0006,0007,000Revenue010020030040050060097.189 mm97.189 mm'12'11'10'18'17'16'15'13'141002000300400500600Net profitTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Revenue

Gross profit margin

EBIT

Profit attributable to Owners of the Company

Basic earnings per share (US cents)

Dividend per share (approx. US cents) 

2018
US$’
million

7,021

37.2%

607

552

30.16

11.33

2017
US$’
million

6,064

36.7%

519

470

25.66

8.69

Changes

+15.8%

+50 bps

+17.0%

+17.4%

+17.5%

+30.4%

EBIT

Gross Profit Margin

Basic Earnings per Share

Dividend per Share

+17.0%

US$607 million

+50 bps

37.2%

+17.5%

US30.16 cents

+30.4%

US11.33 cents

EBIT margin improved by 
10 basis points to 8.7%

Driven by new product, 
mix, volume and 
productivity

Delivered the eleventh 
consecutive year of record 
basic EPS

The final dividend is  
US$6.44 cents per share

2

.

7
7 3
.
6
3

2
.
6
3

7
.
5
3

2
.
5
3

7
0
6

9
1
5

0
5
4

0
0
4

1
5
3

US$m

600

500

400

300

200

100

0

%

37

36

35

34

33

32

31

30

US cents

US cents

6
1

.

0
3

6
6
.
5
2

2
3
.
2
2

7
3
.
9
1

1
4
.
6
1

30

25

20

15

10

5

0

3
3

.

1
1

9
6
.
8

4
4
.
6

5
0
.
5

5
0
.

4

12

10

8

6

4

2

0

'14

'15

'16

'17

'18

'14

'15

'16

'17

'18

'14

'15

'16

'17

'18

'14

'15

'16

'17

'18

EBIT

Gross Profit Margin

Basic Earnings per Share

Dividend per Share
3

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Chairman’s Statement

 “I am proud to announce that TTI has 
been included in the Hang Seng Index 
as one of their fifty constituent stocks.  
As a Company founded in Hong Kong  
in 1985 and listed on the SEHK in  
1990 this is a landmark achievement  
in the Company history.”

Horst Julius Pudwill
Chairman

4

I am pleased to report that in 2018  
we delivered another year of record profit 
and our ninth consecutive year of  
record revenue.

We have delivered impressive growth through the years while 
continuing to drive gross margin expansion. Our momentum could 
not be stronger and we are highly confident in our disciplined focus 
on the key strategic drivers of powerful brands, innovative products, 
exceptional people, and operational excellence.

Industry Leading Year
TTI delivered another solid year in 2018 with record sales and  
profits. For 2018, we reported a 15.8% revenue increase over 2017 
to US$7.02 billion, the ninth consecutive year of record revenues. 
Every geographic region generated exceptional growth powered  
by a stream of exciting new cordless products. Our flagship Power 
Equipment business, representing 85.6% of total sales, grew 17.0% 
to US$6.0 billion with operating profit up 16.9% to US$598 million. 
The Milwaukee Tool business maintained its outstanding growth rate 
delivering a revenue increase of 28.2%, while the RYOBI business 
generated double-digit growth. The Floor Care and Appliance 
business grew 9.3% and showed meaningful improvement 
throughout the year. TTI is focused on transforming our industry 
through innovative cordless technology and remains dedicated  
to the core principles of powerful brands, innovative products, 
exceptional people, and operational excellence.

Strong Financial Performance
Gross margin continued to improve from 36.7% in 2017 to 37.2%  
in 2018 driven by new product, mix, volume and productivity.  
We maintained our relentless focus on driving efficiencies throughout  
our operations while offsetting commodity inflation. Our EBIT 
increased 17.0% to US$607 million, with the EBIT margin improving 
by 10 basis points to 8.7%. Shareholders’ profits rose 17.4% to 
US$552 million, with earnings per share increasing 17.5% over  
2017 to US30.16 cents. Through our highly disciplined working 
capital management we again delivered a net cash position.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018The Board is recommending a final dividend of HK50.00 cents 
(approximately US6.44 cents) per share. Together, with the interim 
dividend of HK38.00 cents (approximately US4.89 cents) per share, 
this will result in a full-year dividend of HK88.00 cents (approximately 
US11.33 cents) per share, against HK67.50 cents (approximately 
US8.69 cents) per share in 2017, an increase of 30.4%.

Reshaping Cordless Performance
TTI continues on its path to growth by being on the technology 
forefront with a superior lithium battery cordless product portfolio.  
We see cordless as the future of power equipment and floor care 
products with a transition that is expanding at a rapid rate. TTI has 
strategically committed significant resources in R&D to develop 
innovative products that redefine how individuals conduct work at 
home and on the jobsite. We continue to enter new markets and 
verticals as our technology advancements create opportunities 
previously unimagined. We are launching cutting edge innovation  
that delivers better performance, outstanding ergonomics, improved 
productivity and increased jobsite safety.

Our powerful product development capabilities and deep technical 
cordless expertise in lithium battery technology, high performance 
brushless motors, and system electronics are showcasing our 
industry leadership. Leveraging our exceptional brands and 
overarching battery platforms, we are producing a growing network 
effect and attracting users with our cordless innovations at a swift 
pace. TTI is changing the cordless landscape by investing in the 
technology that is building our future.

Operational Excellence
An important element of our strategic approach to continuous 
operational improvement is our diversified global manufacturing 
network. With multiple manufacturing operations in Europe, Asia,  
and the United States and our supply chain, we have focused 
manufacturing capabilities that harness cost efficiencies with the 
flexibility to handle our high level of growth while adapting to an  
ever changing market. TTI has made significant investments in the 
expansion of our distribution, manufacturing and R&D capabilities in 
North America and added a new manufacturing complex in Vietnam 
to support the rapid growth. Continuing our productivity trend,  
global headcount for the entire Group increased 5.7%, well below  
the 15.8% revenue increase. Additionally, ongoing investments in 

automation, supply chain, and productivity improvements continue  
to drive higher quality at better cost while promoting environmental, 
social and governance requirements. We remain committed to 
delivering world class on-time fill rates with superior quality products 
while maintaining best cost.

Exciting Future
We are confident that our above market organic growth will continue 
into the future. Our significant investments in R&D and new product 
development teams have driven a pipeline of disruptive, innovative 
products that are fundamentally changing the way our users work  
at home and on the jobsite.

We have an intense focus on our strategic initiatives and the 
connected management disciplines that drive their execution.  
Our financial rigor is another key element to our success.  
Additionally, our obsession with world class organizational 
development is a central theme in our success. Our ongoing 
commitment to the successful Leadership Development Program 
ensures TTI will have a strong pool of talent in the years ahead.  
A commitment to sustainability is an essential part of our broader 
responsibility to our employees, customers, investors, suppliers, 
communities, business and partners. We are dedicated to stringent 
governance practices and to reducing our impact on the 
environment. 

On behalf of the Board, I would like to express my sincere gratitude  
to our shareholders, loyal customers and the entire TTI team for  
their energy, devotion, hard work, and on-going commitment.  
I am convinced that our bold strategy, customer focus, and business 
momentum will make 2019 another outstanding year.

Horst Julius Pudwill
Chairman
March 6, 2019

5

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Chief Executive Officer’s Message

 “TTI is a technology company creating 
labor saving devices and transforming 
the global market for power tools, 
outdoor equipment and floor care  
from traditional power sources to 
revolutionary lithium powered cordless.”

Joseph Galli Jr
Chief Executive Officer

6

TTI delivered a remarkable year, achieving 
a level of organic growth not thought 
possible in our served industry. 

This performance again dramatically outpaced our competitors as  
we captured significant share in our core markets, entered new 
categories where cordless innovation is disrupting the entire 
industry, and continued our geographic expansion. We are growing 
organically, introducing a myriad of technology rich new products, 
and have kept up this pace without turning to acquisitions to boost 
revenues. TTI has surged to a new level with so many growth drivers 
and vast innovation platforms in front of us. 

Driving Strategic Growth Opportunities
TTI is at the forefront, driving the move to cordless products around 
the world. We have been investing in battery, motor and electronics 
technologies to capture the leadership position across multiple 
cordless platforms. TTI’s powerful brands offer the go-to-products  
for consumers and professionals with new-to-world innovations  
that are dramatically disrupting existing markets while also creating 
new opportunities in a growing number of vertical disciplines.  
Our tremendous technology improvements in power, run time,  
and durability are now delivering cordless innovation that will tackle 
heavy duty infrastructure projects. TTI is uniquely positioned  
at the vanguard of this seismic shift to cordless and the endless 
opportunities generated. 

We have generated outstanding momentum at Milwaukee Tool, through 
a dedicated focus on delivering technically advanced cordless tools, 
lighting, accessories, storage and hand tools to the professional 
tradesmen. Our strategy is different from competitors. We are 
transforming the global market for professional power tools and 
equipment from traditional power sources to revolutionary  
lithium powered cordless. Milwaukee Tool has the broadest line of 
professional tools, powered by our M18 and M12 battery platforms, 
loaded with advanced technology which deliver unmatched 
performance, jobsite safety and productivity. Our new range of 

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018 
high-technology FUEL tools are aimed at trade professionals  
such as the commercial plumber, commercial electrician and 
datacom electrician in vertical industries from industrial construction, 
maintenance, infrastructure projects and well beyond. With the 
current product offering Milwaukee Tool has massive opportunity  
in new verticals and geographically, but we will not stop as our  
new product roadmap and technology advancements will bring  
even more growth potential. 

We are transforming the DIY market with our ongoing stream of 
innovative RYOBI ONE+ products which feeds the world’s largest 
cordless DIY system with an overarching platform in batteries that 
goes from power tools to outdoor products. The RYOBI ONE+ battery 
system is compatible to previous generations of RYOBI tools, an 
unmatched capability that has been rewarding the RYOBI ONE+  
user for years. We see our broad platform and significant market 
penetration as an opportunity to continue introducing product 
innovations and expanding the network. As an example of cordless 
penetration, RYOBI in outdoor products which is a growing success 
as we pioneer the shift, the revolution, from gas powered lawn gear  
to lithium-ion cordless. Our high performance, easy to use and 
environmentally friendly cordless lawn mowers are driving demand 
towards our RYOBI ONE+ and RYOBI 40V battery systems. 

We have a winning strategy for the Floor Care business which is 
propelled forward with the cordless technology of TTI and our unique 
position in the carpet washing category, all marketed by our iconic 
brands like HOOVER and VAX. We are well on the way to developing 
our cordless range that creates tremendous value for the user. The 
new ONEPWR platform is a detachable and interchangeable lithium 
battery system that powers a number of innovative cleaners from  
high performance uprights, stick vacs and other fantastic cleaning 
products. The product opportunities for the HOOVER ONEPWR 
platform are exciting, positioning the business for further growth. 

New Product Powerhouse
At our foundation is a high-speed product development system that  
is central to our growth. Launching new products at TTI is a strategic 

and rigorous process that ensures high quality, game changing 
technology and innovative products. We have built a powerful, 
streamlined, fast paced, and comprehensive product development 
process. TTI has a number of brand-focused innovation centers  
in key markets dedicated to research, design, engineering technologies, 
and developing new products. Across our brands and innovation centers 
we drive product development through our process to bring to market 
a broad range of breakthrough, value-enhancing products. We are 
producing a continuous stream of new products that excite end-users, 
overwhelm the competition, and change the respective industries.

Bold, Targeted Geographic Expansion
TTI is successfully building a global presence beyond our strong 
foundation in the US, expanding into new countries in which we  
are under-represented with a very thoughtful, risk managed strategy. 
Once we enter a market, we go boldly to establish our leadership. 
Today we have a network of vibrant marketing companies in dozens 
of key geographies, allowing us to further harvest the benefit of our 
industry leading cordless platforms. Our teams in Canada, Australia 
and New Zealand, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, are delivering 
significant results. We are investing in selective targets in Asia,  
such as South Korea and Malaysia, and Latin America, which are 
gaining momentum and delivering the cordless benefits of safety  
and productivity to users in these markets. 

Exceptional Team
The TTI business leaders around the world represent a level of talent 
our industry has never seen. We firmly believe our leaders are not 
only the best, but with their incredible passion, industry knowledge 
and relentless drive to succeed, the organization is positioned  
for even better performance. The TTI team is a real differentiator  
for the company and has become an unassailable competitive 
advantage. With such an array of focused, motivated and outstanding 
people, TTI will continue to outperform the competition and change 
our industries. The leadership team is the fuel behind our success at 
every level of the organization. 

7

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Chief Executive Officer’s Message

The TTI culture of entrepreneurship and creativity motivates people 
to achieve their goals and reach their potential quickly. We provide  
a focused, strategic roadmap, strong financial backing, clear 
leadership direction and a high-energy environment that allows our 
employees to learn, contribute and grow. In addition, we take our 
global responsibilities as a company seriously by taking a strong 
position on all ESG requirements. Our goal is to always lead by 
example by going above and beyond what is expected. We enforce 
strict standards of behavior and integrity throughout our organization 
and the complete supply chain. We are proud to provide powerful 
leadership in these areas. 

Leadership Development Program (LDP)
TTI has a deep bench of exceptional leaders to support our business 
goals. We have been investing in campus recruiting and hiring into 
our thriving LDP top level, high-potential college graduates from  
over 75 campuses around the world for more than ten years. As this 
investment has been going on year after year we have established  
a pipeline for superstars that are populating our sales, marketing, 
engineering, purchasing, supply-chain, manufacturing and finance 
disciplines throughout the company around the world. We feel 
strongly that our recruiting, hiring, mentoring and organizational 
development process are absolute TTI core strengths. Through a 
highly selective process which identifies high-potential candidates, 
we are planning to hire over 780 college graduates from top 
universities in 2019. We are committed to our extremely effective  
LDP and the development of our future leaders. We now have twelve 
vice president level executives that started as college graduates in  
our LDP program. This number will continue increasing as more  
and more of our talented LDPs progress quickly into meaningful 
leadership roles.

We Are Just Getting Started
I am extremely proud with what we have achieved. Our outstanding 
performance leads the industry. Our strategy and execution continue 
to deliver impressive results. We have great customers around the 
world and excellent momentum with them. The strategic investments 
in our new product system, R&D, product teams and supply chains 
are delivering break-through innovations and generating a cycle  
of improving gross margins. With our iconic brands and unwavering 
commitment to creating cordless leadership through innovation, 
we have established a powerful platform with vast potential.  
The unprecedented momentum we have generated at TTI mirrors 
the powerful future that lies ahead.

I would like to thank our visionary Chairman, Horst Pudwill, for his 
tremendous mentorship, support, and guidance throughout  
our record breaking 2018 year. It is his bold vision, leadership  
and relentless drive that best defines our extraordinary culture.  
He motivates us to continue to achieve spectacular, record breaking 
results. We share the cordless vision for an incredible TTI future.

Joseph Galli Jr
Chief Executive Officer
March 6, 2019

8

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018TTI is driving the revolution of cordless technology  
and generating even more growth opportunities.

8

Batteries
Aftermarket

7
Replacement
Cycle 

1

Corded to
Cordless

Network
Effect

2

Pneumatic
to Cordless

3

Gas to
Cordless

6

Hydraulic
to Cordless

4
Corded Lighting
to Cordless 

5

Hand Tools
to Cordless

9

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Power Equipment, 
Accessories, Hand Tools 
and Storage

10

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

TTI is a fast growing world leader in power tools, outdoor products, 
accessories, hand tools and storage for the DIY, professional and 
industrial users. We have a relentless focus on creating and advancing 
cordless technology and innovative product solutions in the home 
improvement, repair, maintenance, construction and infrastructure 
verticals. Our portfolio of powerful brands are recognized as market 
leaders across the globe.

Milwaukee Tool is an industry-leading 
manufacturer of heavy-duty power 
tools, accessories and hand tools  
for professional users worldwide.

AEG POWERTOOLS promises to  
draw upon its heritage and deliver 
exciting, high performance, innovative 
working solutions for the professional 
tradesmen of today and the future.

As one of the world’s largest and most 
innovative DIY power tool and outdoor 
product manufacturers, RYOBI 
specializes in making pro-featured 
power equipment truly affordable.

For over nine decades, homeowners 
everywhere have been looking  
to HOMELITE to deliver quality 
outdoor tools at the best value.

Since 1919, Empire level has earned 
the trust of the construction trades  
by delivering a broad range of 
innovative solutions focused  
on layout applications. 

The original inventor of the universal 
shank for use on oscillating multi-tools, 
Imperial Blades is known for high 
quality products and a broad range  
of accessory solutions.

STILETTO tool sets the standard  
with premium titanium hand tools  
and hammers that are 45% lighter 
than steel, while providing the  
same striking force and strength.

HART family of products focus  
on delivering innovative signature 
features that provide contractors  
with top quality hand tools to  
enhance productivity.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

11

12

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Industrial Power ToolsPORTABLE PRODUCTIVITY
TRADE FOCUSED 
SYSTEM WIDE

TM

The MILWAUKEE M12 Cordless System is the largest sub-compact system on the market, delivering 
industry-leading durability and power in a size that outperforms the competition in the tightest places. 
Powered by REDLITHIUM battery technology for unmatched run-time, and coupled with patented 
technologies, innovative motors, and advanced electronics, M12 changes the game. MILWAUKEE offers 
more than 90 professional cordless solutions focused on providing tool belt portability, without  
sacrificing power and speed.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

13

14

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Industrial Power ToolsPERFORMANCE DRIVEN
TRADE FOCUSED 
SYSTEM WIDE

TM

The MILWAUKEE M18 Cordless System is the fastest-growing 18V cordless tool lineup in the industry  
and represents the best combination of professional grade power, extreme performance, and superior 
durability. Powered by REDLITHIUM battery technology for unmatched run-time, and coupled with 
patented technologies, innovative motors, and advanced electronics, M18 changes the game.  
Dedicated to improving productivity for the professional trades, MILWAUKEE offers more than  
175 performance-driven solutions so users can perform an entire day’s work on one battery system.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

15

DRIVEN TO OUTPERFORM.

For the first time in power tool history, M18 FUEL products are delivering game-changing corded 
performance without the cord. The motors on MILWAUKEE M18 FUEL tools are more powerful 
and energy efficient – outliving any other brand. To add to the revolutionary technology, M18 
FUEL possesses the smartest electronics found in any power tool. REDLINK PLUS electronics 
manage an array of power requirements across more than 175 M18 tools using one common 
battery. MILWAUKEE built, the M18 battery delivers cleaner, more consistent power, lasts longer 
and delivers more run-time in the harshest jobsite conditions.

LONGER 

MOTOR LIFE

MORE 

POWER

MORE 

RUN-TIME

HIGH OUTPUT

50%

VS REDLITHIUM HD

MORE POWER 
& RUNS COOLER

M
T

TM

2.0
1
D
 H
T
U
P
T
U
O
H
G
H

I

1POWERSTATE 

BRUSHLESS 
MOTOR
This best-in-class brushless motor  
works harder and lives longer than  
all leading competitors.

 ■  MILWAUKEE designed  

and built brushless motor

 ■  Outperforms all  

leading competitors

 ■  Longer motor life

16

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Industrial Power Tools 
2

REDLINK PLUS 
INTELLIGENCE

The most advanced system of hardware  
and software in cordless power tool 
electronics today.

 ■  Most advanced electronic system on  
the market for maximum performance

 ■  Total system communication with 

overload protection increases tool life

M
T

.0
5
C
X

3

REDLITHIUM XC5.0
BATTERY PACK

Compatible with the entire M18 system,  
it delivers more run-time, power and  
recharges than the competition.

 ■  Most durable pack on the market

 ■  Over 2X more recharges than  

leading competitor

 ■  Fuel gauge displays remaining charge

 ■  Operates below -18°C / 0°F

TM

PERFORMANCE DRIVEN 
TRADE FOCUSED  
SYSTEM WIDE

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

17

Industrial Power Equipment

SITE LIGHTING
MILWAUKEE site lighting is the industry’s first system of high-output 
LED lights to offer full-day runtime in portable packages. The site lights 
utilize the most advanced lighting technology to deliver a consistent 
beam, optimized color temperature and true representation of colors 
and detail leading to a more productive work area. Our job site lights 
shine brighter, last longer and are uniquely designed to adapt,  
perform and survive the daily demands of professional use.

M12 ROCKET  
Dual Power Tower Light

USB Rechargeable ROVER  
Pivoting Flood Light

USB Rechargeable  
Pivoting Flashlight

18

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

DRAIN CLEANING
As the first to bring cordless solutions to the user, MILWAUKEE is 
committed to providing drain cleaning professionals with the most 
portable and versatile drain cleaning solutions. Through a thorough 
evaluation of the job at hand — the frustrations, needs, previous 
limitations — MILWAUKEE sets out to completely rethink a solution, 
delivering game-changing innovation. MILWAUKEE is committed  
to developing solutions that improve the ability for drain cleaning 
professionals to service more calls with less hassle.

M12 AIRSNAKE  
Drain Cleaning Air Gun

M18 FUEL Drain Snake w/ CABLE DRIVE  
Locking Feed System

M18 FUEL SWITCH PACK  
Sectional Drum System Kit

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

19

Industrial Power Equipment

OUTDOOR  
POWER EQUIPMENT
From landscaping professionals to trade professionals, MILWAUKEE  
is committed to improving productivity by providing performance-driven 
and trade-focused solutions. These tools have the power to outperform 
competitive 18V and higher voltage solutions, and are fully compatible 
with more than 175 solutions on the M18 System.

20

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

FORCELOGIC™

THE SMARTEST WAY 
TO WORK
FORCE LOGIC is engineered to not only improve upon, but 
fundamentally change the way high-force tools are used in  
the field. Through thoughtful design focused on workflow,  
each tool simplifies a complicated process to deliver the  
best user experience of its kind.

M18 FORCE LOGIC  
750 MCM Crimper

M18 FORCE LOGIC  
1590 ACSR Cutter 

M18 Short Throw Press Tool  
w/ PEX Crimp Jaws

M18 FORCE LOGIC  
2” – 3” PROPEX Expansion Tool

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

21

Power Tool Accessories

CARBIDE TEETH

CUT LONGER. CUT MORE. CUT FASTER.

The Power Tool accessories business continues to push the limits of 
performance to solve jobsite problems and make users more productive. 
Constant improvements and innovations, such as the self-sharpening 
chisels, are the direct result of relentless user research and product 
testing. Investments in accessory manufacturing technology with 
creative designs combined with power tool advancements deliver 
game-changing solutions year after year.

9” 7 TPI Metal THE TORCH with  
Carbide Teeth SAWZALL Blade

9” 5 TPI Wood THE AX with  
Carbide Teeth SAWZALL Blade

3-1/2” HOLE DOZER with  
Carbide Teeth Hole Saw

2-9/16” BIG HAWG with  
Carbide Teeth Hole Saw

22

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

IMPACT DUTY

™

Driving performance forward with the launch of SHOCKWAVE 
accessories in 2009, MILWAUKEE delivered the first line of  
power tool accessories specifically designed for use with impact 
drivers. As tool usage and technological advancements within 
impact drivers has rapidly increased, MILWAUKEE has continued  
to innovate and provide tradesmen with the best performing impact 
accessories available. SHOCKWAVE accessories will continue to be 
at the forefront of impact accessory technology and focus on driving 
performance forward.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

23

Hand Tools & Storage

In 2018, MILWAUKEE continued to expand its hand tool and storage 
offering by providing innovative, trade-specific solutions that deliver 
increased durability and productivity to users. As demonstrated with  
the industry’s most durable tape measure, STUD, MILWAUKEE  
develops its products from the ground up, disrupting stagnant 
categories in the market.

24

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

25

Hand Tools & Storage
Hand Tools & Storage

LIFETIME
LIFETIME

GUARANTEE
GUARANTEE

GARANTÍA DE POR VIDA
GARANTIE À VIE

MILWAUKEE mechanics hand tools keep 
users productive in the shop and on the 
jobsite. These hand tools are designed  
for durability, versatility, and ease of use. 
New-to-world FOUR FLAT sides on all 
sockets deliver an anti-roll and wrench-
ready design for maximum versatility  
and efficiency. Ratcheting combination 
wrenches feature 2.5° of arc swing for 
better access in small and tight work 
spaces. All MILWAUKEE mechanics hand 
tools are backed by a lifetime guarantee, 
ensuring the job gets done every time.

Ratchet & Socket Set

Hook & Pick Set

Pry Bars

Combination Wrenches

26

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

In 2018, MILWAUKEE continued to expand its new-to-the-world 
PACKOUT modular storage system delivering the most versatile 
and durable storage. PACKOUT continued revolutionize tool 
transportation, organization, and storage for the trades by  
providing users with the ability to interchange and interlock  
a wide assortment of heavy duty tool boxes, organizers,  
and storage totes in multiple configurations.

MODULAR STORAGE SYSTEM

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

27

Layout and Measuring Tools

REDSTICK Box Levels

REDSTICK Magnetic Box Levels

REDSTICK Concrete Levels

REDSTICK Digital Levels

28

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

MILWAUKEE REDSTICK levels set the bar with industry-leading 
performance, delivering best-in-class vial readability, reinforced frames 
and lifetime accuracy guarantee. SHARPSITE vial technology has a 
magnified bubble and high-visibility vial spirit designed to deliver visual 
accuracy on the jobsite. REDSTICK levels area backed by a lifetime 
accuracy guarantee within 0.029 degrees and limited lifetime warranty.

EMPIRE continues to own users within the construction trades with innovative products and user-focused 
technology. The expansion of ULTRAVIEW LED technology into the torpedo level category gives users a lightweight 
pocketable solution for everyday work in poorly lit conditions. The new line of digital levels exceeded user 
expectations with industry-first features like auto-calibration and inspect mode making them the easiest and most 
functional levels on the market. As the dominant industry leader, EMPIRE continued to upgrade core categories 
with the expansion of compact box levels, and long reel tapes driving high double digit sales growth in 2018  
and taking significant market share.

Closed Reel Steel Tapes

ULTRAVIEW LED Torpedo Level

Compact Box Levels

Digital Box Levels

Magnetic Digital Box Levels

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

29

Accessories

Imperial Blades was founded with the  
sole mission to provide the highest quality 
and most innovative oscillating multi-tool 
accessories. Imperial Blades has stayed 
true to its promise of delivering innovation 
with its ONE FIT universal anchor in 2009 
as well as its premium STORM Titanium 
Enhanced series in 2010. Since then, 
Imperial Blades has expanded lines to 
accommodate more tool fitments as well as 
added reciprocating blades to its arsenal.

STILETTO tool sets the standard with premium titanium hand tools  
and hammers that are 45% lighter than steel, while providing the  
same striking force and strength. In addition, titanium tools produce 
10X less recoil shock, which means less downtime due to injury, more 
productivity and most importantly less pain while getting the job done.

30

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Professional Tools

AEG POWERTOOLS is a global leader in product innovation and development, 
with more than 100 years’ experience in delivering robust solutions to the 
building and construction industry.

The recent implementation of more powerful brushless motors tools range, 
coupled with technologically-advanced batteries, now deliver unprecedented 
power and run-times to tradesmen who stake their reputation on AEG.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

31

DIY Power Tools

The World Largest  
18-volt Tool System and Growing
The leading DIY RYOBI ONE+ cordless system, with hundreds of tools that  
all operate on the same 18-volt battery platform, continues to expand with 
innovative products. Our deep household penetration has established a loyal 
following of users. ONE+ tools can power you through all types of projects  
from drilling, driving, cutting, and fastening, to lighting, plumbing, cooling,  
and rocking, to trimming, edging, mowing, and clearing – and so much more.

32

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

WORLD’S
LARGEST

Higher Performance Solutions
RYOBI 18-volt ONE+ batteries feature advanced electronics to allow you to maximize tool performance with added 
capacity to all 18-volt ONE+ tools. With superior runtime, power, and performance, ONE+ batteries can take on 
more demanding applications than ever before.

Lithium+ HP battery technology allows two way communicating with ONE+ brushless tools to maximize 

performance in all applications, allowing users to make faster cuts, drive larger screws, utilize bigger drill bits, etc.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

33

DIY Power Tools

RYOBI 18-volt 50ft Drain Auger

The ONE+ Drain Auger clears the toughest  
clogs from drains up to 3 in. wide with  
a 50 ft. reinforced cable to  
minimize kinking. With quick  
change replaceable tips and drum,  
the ONE+ Hybrid 50 ft. Drain Auger  
Kit guarantees convenience when  
handling a variety of clogs.

RYOBI 18-volt Stapler

The ONE+ 18-volt Stapler with 
compression drive technology drives  
over 5,500 3/8 in. crown staples on  
single battery and on-board dual  
screen/wire attachment allows  
installation that guide staples  
without penetrating wire or screen.

RYOBI 18-volt Propane Heater

RYOBI 18-volt 3/8” Impact Driver

The ONE+ Propane heater delivers up  
to 15,000 BTUs of heat output on the  
jobsite or the tailgate. The hybrid design  
allows you to use either an 18-volt RYOBI battery  
or extension cord. Get up to 5 hours heating using  
the P108 4.0 Ah High Capacity LITHIUM+ Battery.

The ONE+ 18-volt 3/8 in. Impact Wrench produces  
150 ft. lbs. of torque and up to 3,400 impacts per  
minute allowing you to use this tool for a variety of  
automotive applications.

34

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

RYOBI 18-volt Multi-Purpose Fogger

The RYOBI 18-volt ONE+ Multi-Purpose  
Fogger is ideal defending yards against bugs,  
mold and weeds. For use with fungicides, 
herbicides and insecticides, this fogger  
can cover up to 10,000 sq. ft. per charge.  
With up to 15 ft. reach, it delivers quick  
and comprehensive coverage. 

RYOBI 18-volt Grease Gun

The ONE+ 18-volt Grease Gun features  
a max PSI of 10,000 and a max  
flow-rate of up to 7.5 oz./minute,  
allowing this grease gun to power  
through the toughest grease fittings.  
Dispense up to 19 grease cartridges  
on a single battery.

RYOBI 18-volt ONE+ Brushless Jigsaw

The RYOBI 18-volt ONE+ Cordless Brushless Jigsaw 
combines precision and power without the cord.  
The brushless motor provides 3,350 strokes per 
minute and variable speed for fast efficient cutting.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

35

Outdoor Products

The #1 Cordless Mower Brand*
RYOBI is now the #1 Cordless Mower Brand in the U.S.*. With two voltage  
platforms, a variety of deck sizes, and features that empower users of all  
skill levels, there is a RYOBI mower that is perfect for any homeowner  
and yard. Featuring mowers with “Gas-Like Power,” exceptional run  
times and the convenience of battery power, RYOBI lithium  
mowers make the decision of switching to cordless  
an obvious choice.

*  Based on TraQline 2018 Dollar Brand Share Sales Data  
for Cordless Handheld Outdoor Products in the U.S.**  
and Walk-Behind Cordless Mowers.

** Cordless Handheld Outdoor Products include string trimmers,  

leaf blowers and chainsaws.

36

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Mower Innovation
Adding technology does not always mean adding 
complexity. Smart Trek Self-Propelled Technology 
is intelligent and intuitive – automatically  
adjusting to your walking speed.

LAWN   GARDEN BRAND

TM

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

37

Outdoor Products

A Growing Family
The RYOBI 40-volt lithium family continues to expand – now  
with over 40 products in the family. All RYOBI 40-volt batteries  
are compatible with all RYOBI 40-volt tools, so as the family grows, 
so do the possibilities of doing all lawn and garden projects on  
a single battery platform.

38

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

#1 Cordless Lawn and Garden Brand*
The RYOBI 40-volt lithium platform has been an integral part in 
making RYOBI the #1 Cordless Lawn and Garden Brand in the 
U.S.*. With RYOBI 40-volt, get the power and mobility of  
gas with the convenience of cordless. This innovative  
range offers a variety of tools including lawn mowers,  
string trimmers, chain saws, hedge trimmers and  
more. Each tool is powered by a 40-volt lithiumion  
battery for fade-free, long-lasting performance.

*  Based on TraQline 2018 Dollar Brand Share Sales Data for Cordless Handheld Outdoor Products in the U.S.** and Walk-Behind Cordless Mowers.

** Cordless Handheld Outdoor Products include string trimmers, leaf blowers and chainsaws.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

39

Outdoor Products

RYOBI 40-volt Backpack Blower

RYOBI 40-volt Chainsaw

Powerful but not intimidating. High-tech but simple tooperate. This 
chain saw, with its intelligent brushless motor, delivers Gas-Like 
Power without any complicated starting procedures, exhaust or  
hot mufflers. With a charged battery, pull the trigger and it’s ready  
to get to work. This chain saw comes with a high-capacity 4 Ah 
battery and has twice the run time of the previous 40-volt model.

RYOBI 40-volt Attachment  
Capable String Trimmer

Gas-Like Power, Attachment Capable and 
well balanced – we’ve taken all the things 
people love about our top selling string 
trimmer and made it better. Now with 
more power, more run time, and lighter 
weight, you get even more for the 
same great value.

Incredibly powerful. Unbelievably quiet. The 40-volt 
Backpack Blower with crossforce fan technology,  
a unique dual-intake design, is the industry’s quietest 
blower. With its brushless motor and lithium-ion battery,  
it generates 625 CFM of clearing force.

RYOBI 40-volt Hedge Trimmer

This hedge trimmer exemplifies the perfect balance of power 
and comfort. With its 24” hardened steel dual-action 
blades and up to 1” cut capacity, it is ready to tame  
the wildest hedges. Engineered with superior 
ergonomics, it is well balanced and has  
a rotating handle for comfortable  
trimming at all angles.

RYOBI 40-volt Jet Fan Blower

Innovation, performance, and maximum clearing 
force. The next generation 40-volt Jet Fan Blower  
is here with more power, more run time and 
lighter weight. With Gas-Like Power and 
jet fan technology, this blower has the 
perfect combination to make clearing 
your yard a breeze.

RYOBI 40-volt VAC ATTACK Leaf Mulcher

The RYOBI 40-volt VAC ATTACK Leaf Mulcher  
has been optimized for superior suction and 
mulching. With its durable metal blades, it quickly 
mulches 16 bags of leaves down to one. With  
the included 4 Ah battery, mulch up to eight 
30-gallon bags on a single charge.

40

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Electric Zero Turn  
Riding Mower
The future of mowing has taken a 
turn. The RYOBI ZT480e Electric 
Riding Mower uses zero turn 
technology with lap bar steering  
to help cover more yard in less time. 
Cutting over two acres on one charge, 
it’s quietly and quickly changing  
the way America mows – one turn  
at a time.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

41

Floor Care and
Appliances

42

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

TTI is a global leader in Floor Care with our iconic HOOVER, VAX, 
ORECK and DIRT DEVIL brands. We are dedicated to creating and 
advancing innovative cordless cleaning products and carpet washing 
products for the home and the commercial user. Our strategic  
multi-brand approach, high-speed product development capabilities 
and cordless technology are redefining the floor care industry.

For more than 100 years, HOOVER 
has designed powerful, easy-to-use 
products that clean your entire home 
from floor to ceiling, and even the  
very air you breathe.

ORECK produces and sells vacuums, 
steam mops, floor machines, air 
purifiers and cleaning products  
for use in both hotels and homes 
throughout the U.S., Canada and 
parts of Europe.

VAX is the UK’s leading floor care 
brand offering cleaning products 
across all the floor care categories. 
The VAX brand is continuing to  
invest in new technologies, which  
are both innovative and market 
leading to drive the next generation  
of cordless products that truly meet 
the changing consumer needs.

The DIRT DEVIL brand has a portfolio 
of powerful and easy-to-use uprights, 
sticks and hand vacuums. With 
products designed to be lightweight, 
versatile with quality performance. 

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

43

Floor Care and Appliances

®®

PWR ON.
PWR UP.
PWR HOUSE.

The HOOVER ONEPWR System 
is an innovative family of 
cordless cleaning products  
that share the same powerful, 
lithium-ion battery for a faster 
and easier cleaning routine.

From carpets to hard floors, 
patios and more, HOOVER has 
a ONEPWR cordless product  
for any cleaning need. Every 
HOOVER ONEPWR product 
delivers high-performance, 
cord-free cleaning with the 
continuous run time consumers 
need to power through cleaning 
tasks in and around the home.

44

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

FLOORMATE JET

SPRAYCLEAN  
Solution Nozzle
For on-demand  
solution control

BLADE

DUSTVAULT 
TECHNOLOGY
Removes 99% of  
ﬁne particles with  
no loss of suction

SPOTLESS GO

High Performance Blower

Hard Surface Blower

Wet/Dry Utility Vac

High Capacity Utility Vac

Task Light

Handvac

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

45

Floor Care and Appliances

Powerful Carpet Cleaning. Two Powerful Solutions.
Eliminate stains and lift deep embedded dirt with two powerful HOOVER carpet washers. 
Packed with innovative features and highly rated by consumers, the new SMARTWASH and 
POWERDASH carpet cleaning machines offer easy-to-use operation and professional-grade 
results. Additionally, HOOVER’s new line of pre-treatment & cleaning solutions are formulated 
to offer a deep clean and leave carpets looking and smelling fresh.

AUTOMATIC CARPET CLEANER

COMPACT CARPET CLEANER

Our Best Cleaning Full Size  
Carpet Cleaner
Eliminate the guesswork with HOOVER’s 
most powerful and easy-to-use carpet 
cleaner that makes deep cleaning 
carpets as easy as vacuuming. Simply 
push forward to wash, pull back to dry. 
Seriously simple. Seriously Clean.

46

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

2X More Cleaning Power*
Easily tackle pet messes & everyday 
stains with 2X more cleaning power 
than the leading lightweight carpet 
cleaner. The perfect go-to carpet 
washer for high traffic areas and  
small spaces in an easy-to-use  
compact design.

*  Than the leading lightweight carpet cleaner

Our best carpet washer is proven to out clean the leading rental^ and removes up to 
93% of bacteria. The XL brushbar and patented SPINSCRUB technology, agitate 
and lift away deep down dirt from your carpet fibres, cleaning your carpet five times 
better than a high performance vacuum cleaner ^.

THE PLATINUM POWER MAX comes loaded with handy tools so you can deep clean 
your stairs, upholstery and car interior, helping you to remove the most stubborn of 
stains. Our quick clean function will have your carpet dry again in as little as 1 hour*.

COMPACT CARPET CLEANER

Deep Cleaning
The powerful DUAL V technology  
lifts away any dirt from your 
carpets, leaving them looking 
clean and smelling fresh.

SPINSCRUB Technology
THE VAX PLATINUM POWER MAX  
has seven SPINSCRUB bristles that 
sit behind the XL brush bar. These  
lift and remove any dirt from deep 
within your carpet.

Quick Dry
Leaves carpets dry in as little as  
1 hour* The rinse function and 
DUAL V technology removes any 
shampoo residue and water left 
behind after carpet cleaning.

*  Tested in quick clean mode. Results may vary.
^  Cleaning effectiveness on carpet, tested using Platinum solution in deep clean mode according to IEC 62885-3:2014 part 5.2.1. For further information email info@vax.co.uk

SPINSCRUB Hand Tool

Long Reach for Use on Stairs

Use on Upholstery

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

47

Floor Care and Appliances

Premium Cordless Cleaning at Its Finest
ORECK continues to focus on superior cleaning with sleek, powerful product designs, engineered to deliver the best 
possible clean. With an expanded focus on cordless cleaning and breakthrough features, the ORECK brand remains 
the lead in premium design and experience and will expand its focus into other cleaning categories with the 
introduction of a new cordless upright product in 2019.

Hoover Commercial will expand 
the portfolio of professional 
cleaning solutions in 2019  
with the launch of a new series 
of M-PWR cordless products. 
The new line will focus on an 
optimal blend of ergonomic 
design, seamless user experience, 
and uncompromising power, 
engineered to deliver 
professional-grade cleaning  
at an affordable price.

48

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Ready. Set. Cordless.
DIRT DEVIL brings all the power you need, the features you want, all at a price you can 
afford with a line of cordless stick vacuums designed to get the job done faster and easier. 
Cord-free benefits like fade-free battery power, longer runtime and faster charging are 
paired with simple features guaranteed to get the job done and get you back to life.

DIRT DEVIL VERSA

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

49

Management’s Discussion and Analysis

MILWAUKEE M18 FUEL SUPER SAWZALL Reciprocating Saw

Review of Operations
Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools

Representing 85.6% of total 
sales, the Power Equipment 
business reported global sales 
of US$ 6.0 billion, a 17.0% 
increase over the same  
period in 2017.

A multitude of strategic factors contributed to the record performance 
including innovative new product introductions, product category 
expansion, geographic expansion and market share gains.  
Operating profit was US$598 million, an increase of 16.9% over 
 last year.

Industrial Tools
The Milwaukee Tool business generated excellent results with 
worldwide sales up 28.2% over the previous period with double-digit 
growth in all geographic regions. The dedicated focus on cordless 
innovation is producing a volume of disruptive products across 
targeted product categories in markets we serve. Consequently,  
the Milwaukee Tool business continues to significantly outperform  
the global market by providing tool solutions to the professional  
user in a growing number of categories and industries.

Focus on cordless innovation

17.0%

Revenue growth of  
Power Equipment business

US$598 million

The business delivered operating 
profit of US$598 million, a 16.9% 
increase over the previous year

The MILWAUKEE and RYOBI  
brands both delivered double-digit 
sales growth

50

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018US$6.0 billion

Sales in Power Equipment,  
Accessories and Hand Tools

Sales by Business

85.6%

Power Equipment,  
Accessories and  
Hand Tools 

14.4%
Floor Care and  
Appliances

corded saw and providing unmatched run time. The break-through 
M18 16” Chainsaw was introduced with the power to address the 
most demanding application and the capability to outperform gas 
and higher voltage competitors. These are just a few of the exciting 
FUEL products that were introduced during the year.

Ongoing technology advancements keep MILWAUKEE on the leading 
edge of cordless performance. Our most powerful M18 REDLITHIUM 
HIGH OUTPUT HD12.0 Battery produces more work per charge 
while remaining compatible with the M18 System. We continued  
to bring more innovations with the next generation POWERSTATE 
Brushless Motor, the most powerful motor ever produced by 
Milwaukee Tool. The latest REDLINK PLUS is the most intelligent  
and powerful microprocessor ever used in a power tool by  
Milwaukee Tool and manages significantly more current under 
demanding applications.

Power Tools

The Milwaukee Tool business continues to expand cordless product 
solutions on their M18 and M12 battery platforms. The M18 system, 
the fastest-growing cordless system for the professional end user, 
offers over 165 compatible tool and lighting solutions on a single 
battery platform. In addition, Milwaukee Tool is the dominant leader 
in the global sub-compact cordless space, with the M12 cordless 
system offering over 100 compatible tools and lighting solutions.

In 2018, Milwaukee Tool introduced the most powerful line of  
M18 FUEL products ever. These tools have the performance of 
traditional corded tools but with the productivity and safety of 
cordless. The M18 FUEL ½” Hammer Drill Driver is the most 
powerful and compact in the Milwaukee Tool range. The powerful 
M18 SUPER SAWZALL reciprocating saw was launched with faster 
cut speeds than a corded reciprocating saw delivering up to 150 cuts 
per charge. The new M18 FUEL Table Saw allows contractors to rip 
large jobsite materials to size while creating more power than a 

MILWAUKEE M18 FUEL 1/2” Hammer Drill / Driver

51

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018HIGH OUTPUT and Personal Lighting

Hand Tools & Storage

The MILWAUKEE HIGH OUTPUT Lighting program is another 
example of entering a traditional market with cordless technology. 
With recent introductions into the personal lighting and temporary 
lighting markets, Milwaukee Tool now offers the most comprehensive 
work lighting portfolio in the industry. The M12 ROCKET Dual Power 
Tower Light is the lightest, most compact tower light in its class with 
the ability to broadcast light in any direction. The M18 RADIUS 
Compact Site Light with Flood Mode has with 18 hours of run time 
and a compact size that allows users to effortlessly bring and  
remove this light from the jobsite.

Milwaukee Tool is providing break-through product innovations in 
hand tools and storage aimed at our core trade users. We launched 
over 115 new innovative products in the hand tool and storage 
category during 2018 helping to drive another year of significant 
growth. The PACKOUT storage system, designed to provide users 
with the ability to interchange and interlock a wide assortment of 
heavy duty tool boxes, organizers, and storage totes, added new 
innovative products to the system including Tool Bags, Low Profile 
Organizers, Backpacks, Tech Bags, and a Cooler. A new range of 
Mechanics Hand Tools was also introduced that include Sockets  
with patented FOUR FLAT sides featuring anti-roll and wrench-ready 
design and an innovative 90 tooth ratchet tool with 4° of arc swing 
with a slim profile design allowing users to work in tighter, confined 
spaces. The EMPIRE business again outpaced its competitors in  
the layout category with a complete new line of squares. 

MILWAUKEE M12 ROCKET Dual Power Tower Light

Accessories

End users demand the same attention to quality, durability, and 
innovation in their accessories as they do in their tools. Focusing  
on problem solving new technologies, Milwaukee Tool launched the 
HOLE DOZER Hole Saw with Carbide Teeth and the BIG HAWG Hole 
Cutter with Carbide Teeth, both innovative cutting accessories with 
carbide strength which deliver superior life, versatility, and user 
productivity in the most demanding applications.

Milwaukee Tool acquired the Imperial Blades company in 2018 
which manufactures a full range of blades for use in oscillating 
multi-tools. Founded in 2008 and the original inventor of the 
universal shank for use in oscillating multi-tools, the company  
has grown at an impressive rate with new product technology  
such as STORM Titanium coating and the Carbide Extreme Blade. 
The acquisition is part of the ongoing effort to provide the most 
complete range of accessories on the market.

52

MILWAUKEE PACKOUT Modular Storage System

MILWAUKEE Ratchet & Socket Set

Management’s Discussion and AnalysisTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2018AEG Professional Tools

We continue to broaden the AEG range of cordless tools. Our 
strategic approach to expand the brand in certain key markets  
has allowed us to capture market share with the trade professional. 
Twelve new products were added to the AEG 18V platform bringing 
the total to over 52 in 2018. Other new product introductions 
included two new 18V jobsite radios, 18V Brushless large angle 
grinder, 18V brushless small angle grinder with paddle switch,  
and the 18V 9.0Ah battery. Looking forward, we have a formidable 
and exciting pipeline of new 18V tools and 18V kits to be  
introduced in 2019.

RYOBI Outdoor Products

The movement to innovative cordless products was evident in the 
RYOBI brand outdoor products business which delivered double  
digit sales growth. We made market share gains through cordless 
penetration into traditional gas product categories with new product 
introductions that utilize our RYOBI ONE+ and 40V battery systems. 
There were a number of key product innovations that drove the 
growth and expanded the cordless platform. These include the 
brushless 40V self-propelled mower, the 40V brushless string 
trimmer, and the 18V RYOBI ONE+ Bazooka jet fan blower. Product 
development for the popular 40V battery system continues to expand 
across a growing number of lawn and garden product categories that 
require long runtime.

RYOBI 40-volt 20 inch self propelled BRUSHLESS Mower

53

RYOBI 18-volt ONE+ PEX Crimp Ring Press Tool

DIY and Professional Tools

RYOBI DIY Power Tools

The RYOBI DIY Power Tool business continued to grow in 2018. 
Innovative cordless product launches and significant retail 
merchandising programs contributed to driving the growth.  
The leading DIY RYOBI ONE+ cordless system, with hundreds of 
tools that all operate on the same 18V battery platform, continues to 
expand with innovative products. Our deep household penetration 
has established a loyal following of users.

We continue to bring high performance tools to the DIY user with  
the RYOBI ONE+ Brushless line, all utilizing the RYOBI ONE+ battery 
system. New tools in this range were the variable speed jig saw 
providing more run time, faster cuts, increased power, and longer 
motor life. The innovative RYOBI ONE+ PEX Crimp Ring Press Tool 
delivering 320 crimps per charge and easy one-handed crimping 
operation helps eliminate user fatigue while increasing productivity.  
A new series of high performance lithium-ion batteries with advanced 
electronics was introduced effectively adding capacity to all  
18V RYOBI ONE+ tools that enhanced run time, power, and overall 
performance in more demanding applications. The RYOBI ONE+ 
family of LED lighting products is a growing range for the DIY user. 
This includes the innovative Color Range LED Worklight with variable 
color temperature providing the end user with the most accurate view 
of the work space. 

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Management’s Discussion and Analysis

VAX BLADE 2 Max 40V Cordless Vacuum Cleaner

Floor Care and Appliances

The Floor Care and Appliance 
business returned to positive 
sales growth in 2018 with 
cordless vacuums and carpet 
washing products driving  
our 9.3% growth.

The business continued to drive efficiency and lower costs to align 
the business around the strategic plan of increasing market share 
and profitability through the focus on carpet washing and cordless 
cleaning. This is allowing resources to be dedicated to the future as 
we invest in the global cordless product development under our 
HOOVER, VAX, DIRT DEVIL and ORECK brands, all with major 
product launches planned for 2019. We remain confident that the 
focus on carpet washing and the significant portfolio transition to 
cordless cleaning will continue to improve the business.

North America

The sales increase in North America was driven by Hoover’s carpet 
cleaning product line with the launch of SMARTWASH, an innovative 
motion sensing Automatic Cleaning Technology that washes when 
pushed forward and dries when pulled back. The addition of new 
FLEXFORCE Power Brushes makes this Hoover’s best full-size carpet 
cleaner. Hoover also introduced the highly successful new compact 
POWERDASH designed for the trend to smaller living spaces with 
double the cleaning power of competitive compact cleaners. 

The Floor Care and Appliance 
business grew 9.3%, with sales of 
US$1.0 billion

Focus on carpet washing and  
cordless cleaning 

The business continued to drive 
efficiency and lower costs

54

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018US$1.0 billion

Sales in Floor Care and Appliances

Sales by Business

14.4%

Floor Care and  
Appliances

85.6%
Power Equipment,  
Accessories and  
Hand Tools 

Additionally, carpet cleaning solutions, used in the carpet  
washers, continue to be a focus as we invest and grow in the  
carpet washing category.

Europe

The EMEA business had solid sales growth. The focus on our 
cordless strategy and carpet washing products continued to be the 
driving force fueling this growth. The BLADE cordless stick vac range 
contributed to the growth as distribution and sales velocity continue 
to build across the region. With its new floor cleaning head and direct 
helix technology, the VAX BLADE delivers the cleaning performance 
of a corded vacuum, is lightweight, converts easily to a handheld, 
and has a superior 45 minute run time. The BLADE 2 MAX, with  
3X more suction power, is proven to clean carpets better than the  
top ten selling cordless vacuums in the UK. Alongside the cordless 
expansion, the business generated substantial growth in the carpet 
washing category with the innovative launch of the new VAX 
PLATINUM Powermax Pro which is our best cleaning carpet washer 
and rids up to 93% of bacteria. We are looking forward to 2019 with 
the continued introductions of exciting new carpet washers and 
cordless products.

HOOVER POWERDASH Pet Compact Carpet Cleaner

VAX PLATINUM Power Max Carpet Cleaner

55

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Financial Review
Financial Results

The Group’s revenue for  
the year amounted to  
US$7.0 billion, an increase  
of 15.8% as compared to 
US$6.1 billion in 2017. 

Result Analysis

Profit attributable to Owners of the Company amounted to  
US$552 million as compared to US$470 million in 2017, an  
increase of 17.4%. Basic earnings per share for the year improved  
to US30.16 cents as compared to US25.66 cents in 2017.

EBITDA amounted to US$846 million, an increase of 16.2% as 
compared to US$728 million in 2017. 

EBIT amounted to US$607 million, an increase of 17.0% as 
compared to US$519 million in 2017.

Gross Margin

Gross margin improved to 37.2% as compared to 36.7% last year. 
The margin improvement was the result of new product introduction, 
product mix, category expansion, improvements in operational 
efficiency and supply chain productivity.

37.2% (+50bps)

Gross Profit Margin

US$7,021 million

Revenue

US$846 million

EBITDA

US$1.67

(2017: US$1.49)
Book Value per Share

2.9% of Turnover

(2017: 2.7% of turnover)
Investments in Product Design  
and Development

56

Management’s Discussion and Analysis'18'17'16'15'14343536373031323334353637Gross profit marginTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Operating Expenses

Total operating expenses for the year amounted to US$2,014 million 
as compared to US$1,712 million in 2017, representing 28.7% of 
turnover (2017: 28.2%). The increase was mainly due to the strategic 
investments in new products and promotional activities to maintain 
the sales growth momentum and continual margin improvements.

The Group’s net gearing, expressed as a percentage of total net 
borrowing (excluding bank advance from factored trade receivables 
which are without recourse in nature) to equity attributable to Owners 
of the Company, was at net cash in 2018. The gearing improvement 
is the result of very disciplined and focused management over 
working capital. The Group remains confident that gearing, if any,  
will remain low going forward.

Investments in product design and development amounted to 
US$203 million, representing 2.9% of turnover (2017: 2.7%) 
reflecting our continuous strive for innovation. We will continue to 
invest in breakthrough technology and deliver broad base end-user 
products and categories as these are most critical not only to 
maintain sales growth momentum but also margin expansions.

Net interest expenses for the year amounted to US$13 million  
as compared to US$14 million in 2017, a reduction of 1 million  
or 6.2%. Interest coverage, expressed as a multiple of EBITDA  
to total interest was 22.9 times (2017: 30.2 times).

The effective tax rate, being tax charged for the year to before  
tax profits was at 7.1% (2017: 6.9%). The Group will continue  
to leverage its global operations and align its strategy to cope  
with various tax policies change globally to further improve overall  
tax efficiencies.

Liquidity and Financial Resources

Shareholders’ Funds

Total shareholders’ funds amounted to US$3.1 billion as compared  
to US$2.7 billion in 2017. Book value per share was at US$1.67  
as compared to US$1.49 last year, an increase of 12.1%.

Financial Position

The Group continued to maintain a strong financial position.  
As at December 31, 2018, the Group’s cash and cash equivalents 
amounted to US$1,104 million (2017: US$864 million), of which 
54.1%, 23.3%, 11.4% and 11.2% were denominated in US$, RMB, 
EUR and other currencies respectively.

Bank Borrowings

Long term borrowings accounted for 56.0% of total debts (2017: 66.5%).

The Group’s major borrowings continued to be in US Dollars. 
Borrowings are predominantly LIBOR based. There is a natural hedge 
mechanism in place as the Group’s major revenues are in US Dollars  
and currency exposure therefore is low. Currency, interest rate 
exposures, and cash management functions are all being closely 
monitored and managed by the Group’s treasury team.

Amongst the bank borrowings, fixed rate debts account for 10.9%  
of the total bank borrowings, the balance being floating rate debts.

Working Capital 

Total inventory was at US$1,767 million as compared to  
US$1,467 million in 2017. Days inventory increased by 4 days  
from 88 days to 92 days. The higher inventory days as compared  
to past years was mainly due to the strategic decision to carry a 
higher level of inventory to support our service level, considering  
our high growth momentum. The Group will continue to focus in 
managing the inventory level and improve inventory turns.

Trade receivable turnover days were at 57 days as compared to  
67 days last year. Excluding the gross up of the receivables factored 
which is without recourse in nature, receivable turnover days were at 
53 days as compared to 62 days last year. The Group is comfortable 
with the quality of the receivables and will continue to exercise due 
care in managing the credit exposure.

Trade payable days were 100 days as compared to 95 days in 2017 
as the Group managed to leverage the volume and order visibility for 
better trade terms from suppliers.

Working capital as a percentage of sales was at 13.3% as compared 
to 16.5% in 2017.

57

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018 
Capital Expenditure

Total capital expenditures for the year amounted to US$259 million 
(2017: US$205 million).

Capital Commitments and Contingent Liabilities

As at December 31, 2018, total capital commitments for the 
acquisition of property, plant and equipment contracted for but  
not provided amounted to US$119 million (2017: US$22 million), 
and there were no material contingent liabilities or off balance  
sheet obligations.

Charge

None of the Group’s assets are charged or subject to encumbrance.

Major Customers and Suppliers

For the year ended December 31, 2018

Corporate Strategy and Business Model
The Group is a world-class leader in design, manufacturing and 
marketing of power tools, outdoor power equipment and floor care  
for consumers, professional and industrial users in the home 
improvement, infrastructure and construction industries. We are 
committed to implementing our long term strategic plan that focuses 
on “Powerful brands, Innovative Products, Operational Excellence 
and Exceptional People”.

We continue to strengthen our portfolio of powerful brands with  
a focused marketing approach. Brands extension into new product 
categories and under-represented markets enable us to generate 
outstanding growth. Geographic expansion will be a highlight of  
TTI’s future, our long term strategy is to aggressively build our 
business both inside and outside North America and we have spent 
relentless efforts to expand and establish presence in high potential 
markets around the world.

(i) 

the Group’s largest customer and five largest customers 
accounted for approximately 45.5% and 54.2% respectively  
of the Group’s total revenue; and

(ii)   the Group’s largest supplier and five largest suppliers accounted 

for approximately 7.2% and 22.2% respectively of the Group’s 
total purchases (not including purchases of items which are of  
a capital nature).

As far as the Directors are aware, none of the Directors, their 
associates or any shareholders who owned more than 5% of 
TTI’s share capital had any interest in the five largest customers  
or suppliers of the Group.

Introducing innovative new products is the centerpiece of our long 
term strategy. We continue to invest in building a high-speed product 
development process, enabling us to respond faster to customer 
requests and emerging opportunities, giving us a vigorous  
competitive advantage.

Our strategy in operational excellence will continue, we will drive 
further gains in efficiency across our manufacturing operations, 
supporting further margin improvement.

We continue to deploy our Leadership Development Program (LDP) 
to develop our pool of talent for the future. The LDP initiative is 
successfully feeding talent into key positions throughout the company.

Human Resources
The Group employed a total of 23,279 employees as at  
December 31, 2018 (2017: 22,033) in Hong Kong and overseas. 
Total staff cost for the year under review amounted to US$1,062 million  
(2017: US$963 million).

The Group regards human capital as vital for the Group’s continuous 
growth and profitability and remains committed to improving the 
quality, competence and skills of all employees. It provides job-
related training and leadership development programs throughout the 
organization. The Group continues to offer competitive remuneration 
packages, discretionary share options and bonuses to eligible staff, 
based on the performance of the Group and the individual employee.

Our Commitment to ESG 
TTI is committed to operating its business in line with environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) best practices, and to do so in compliance 
with all applicable laws and regulations. We understand that a large 
measure of our ability to grow, innovate and prosper depends on our 
ESG performance.

We have a robust risk management system in place which allows us 
to identify and address issues in an appropriate and timely manner 
as well as mitigate risk to our business. We have identified legal and 
regulatory requirements related to ESG practices that have the potential 
to have a significant impact to our operations and performance. We had 
no reports of ESG-related non-compliance in 2018.

58

Management’s Discussion and AnalysisTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2018In 2018, we developed a Sustainability Strategy and Implementation 
Plan to align our actions and goals globally with the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). We also sharpened  
our focus on human rights, labor, environment, governance and 
anti-corruption practices with specific initiatives and goals. In terms 
of governance, we have formalized the role of the ESG Working 
Committee to oversee our ESG direction and activities. The committee 
will continue to review and lead our Sustainability Strategy and 
monitor our performance against our goals and targets.

TTI understands the importance of continuous engagement with our 
stakeholders to monitor and address their expectations and evolving 
legal and industry requirements. We have various communication 
channels with our key stakeholders including employees, customers, 
investors, shareholders and suppliers. Communication occurs via 
regular meetings, focus group discussions and training sessions. 

Details on our ESG commitments, relevant policies and standards  
is provided throughout this report. Specific ESG key performance 
results and initiatives of 2018 are shared on pages 78 to 111.

Purchase, Sale or Redemption of Securities
A total of 8,600,000 ordinary shares were bought back by the 
Company during 2018 at prices ranging from HK$36.25 to  
HK$47.55 per share. Among these shares bought back and settled 
by the Company in 2018, 7,100,000 shares were cancelled during 
2018 and 1,500,000 shares were cancelled in January 2019.  
The aggregate amount paid by the Company for such buy-backs 
cancelled during 2018 amounting to US$38,608,000 was charged  
to the retained earnings. 

The shares bought back were cancelled and accordingly the issued 
share capital of the Company was reduced. The buy-backs of the 
Company’s shares during the year were effected by the Directors 
pursuant to the mandate granted by shareholders at the previous 
annual general meeting of the Company, with a view to benefiting 
shareholders as a whole by enhancing the net asset value per share 
and earnings per share of the Company. 

Except as disclosed above, neither the Company nor any of its 
subsidiaries purchased, redeemed or sold any of the Company’s 
listed securities during the year.

Review of Financial Information
The Audit Committee has reviewed with senior management of  
the Group and Messrs Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu the accounting 

principles and practices adopted by the Group and has discussed 
internal controls and financial reporting matters, including the review 
of Group’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended 
December 31, 2018. The Board acknowledges its responsibility  
for the preparation of the accounts of the Group.

Dividend
The Directors have recommended a final dividend of HK50.00 cents 
(approximately US6.44 cents) per share with a total of approximately 
US$117,666,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018 (2017: 
HK39.75 cents (approximately US5.12 cents)) payable to the 
Company’s shareholders whose names appear on the register of 
members of the Company on May 24, 2019. Subject to the approval 
of the shareholders at the forthcoming annual general meeting of  
the Company, the proposed final dividend is expected to be paid  
on or about June 21, 2019. This payment, together with the interim 
dividend of HK38.00 cents (approximately US4.89 cents) per share 
(2017: HK27.75 cents (approximately US3.57 cents)) paid on 
September 21, 2018, makes a total payment of HK88.00 cents 
(approximately US11.33 cents) per share for 2018 (2017: HK67.50 
cents (approximately US8.69 cents)).

Closure of Register of Members
The register of members of the Company will be closed for the 
following periods:

To ascertain members’ eligibility to attend and vote at the 2019 
Annual General Meeting, the register of members of the Company will 
be closed from May 15, 2019 to May 17, 2019, both days inclusive, 
during which period no transfers of shares will be effected. In order  
to qualify to attend and vote at the 2019 Annual General Meeting,  
all transfers accompanied by the relevant share certificates must  
be lodged with the Company’s share registrars, Tricor Secretaries 
Limited, at Level 22, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queen’s Road East,  
Hong Kong for registration not later than 4:00 p.m. on May 14, 2019.

To ascertain members’ entitlement to the final dividend, the register 
of members of the Company will be closed on May 24, 2019 when  
no transfers of shares will be effected. In order to qualify for the final 
dividend, all transfers accompanied by the relevant share certificates 
must be lodged with the Company’s share registrars, Tricor Secretaries 
Limited, at Level 22, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queen’s Road East,  
Hong Kong for registration not later than 4:00 p.m. on May 23, 2019.

59

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Mr Horst Julius Pudwill, aged 74, is Chairman of TTI, a position  
he has held since he jointly founded the Group in 1985. Until 2008, 
he also served as Chief Executive Officer. As Chairman, Mr Pudwill 
focuses on the strategic planning and development of the Group and 
continues to have oversight of the operations, with the Chief Executive 
Officer reporting directly to him. Mr Pudwill has extensive experience 
in international trade, business and commerce. Mr Pudwill is also  
a director of Sunning Inc. which has an interest in the equity of  
the Company.

Mr Pudwill holds a Master of Science Degree in Engineering and a 
General Commercial Degree. 

Mr Pudwill is the father of Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill, Vice Chairman 
and Group Executive Director.

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill, aged 42, joined the Group in 2004.  
Mr Pudwill was appointed as Executive Director in 2006 and 
subsequently was appointed as the Vice Chairman of the Company 
on October 1, 2016. He is mainly responsible for managing, 
improving and monitoring internal operations and identifying 
synergistic business opportunities within the Group.

Prior to joining the Group, Mr Pudwill held managerial positions at 
Daimler Chrysler AG that included product marketing and strategic 
planning for the Mercedes-Benz car group.

Mr Pudwill holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree from the University of 
British Columbia and is Mr Horst Julius Pudwill’s son.

Board of Directors

Group Executive Directors

Horst Julius Pudwill MSc
Chairman

Stephan Horst Pudwill
Vice Chairman

60

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Group Executive Directors (continued)

Joseph Galli Jr BSBA, MBA
Chief Executive Officer

Patrick Kin Wah Chan FCCA, FCPA
Operations Director

Frank Chi Chung Chan FCCA, FCPA, CPA (Practising)
Group Chief Financial Officer

Mr Joseph Galli Jr, aged 60, joined the Group in 2006 as the Chief 
Executive Officer of Techtronic Appliances and was appointed  
as Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director of TTI effective 
February 1, 2008. He is responsible for integrating acquisitions in 
North America and Europe, and enhancing the global sales potential 
of the Group’s strong brand portfolio. He is also responsible for 
leading the management team in the Group’s daily operation.

Mr Galli joined Black & Decker in 1980 where he worked for over  
19 years and held various high level management positions, rising to 
the position of President of Worldwide Power Tools and Accessories. 
During his tenure at Black & Decker, he was responsible for highly 
successful launch of the “DeWalt®” Brand heavy duty power tools  
in 1992. After leaving Black & Decker, Mr Galli joined Amazon.com 
where he was President and Chief Operating Officer from 1999 to 
2000. From 2001 to 2005, he was a Director and Chief Executive 
Officer of Newell Rubbermaid Inc.

Mr Galli graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1980  
with a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration. In 1987,  
he obtained an MBA from Loyola College in Baltimore, Maryland.

Mr Patrick Kin Wah Chan, aged 59, joined the Group in 1988 and 
was appointed as Executive Director in 1990. He is now in charge of 
the manufacturing operations of the Group.

Mr Chan is currently the Vice-Chairman of the Dongguan City 
Association of Enterprises with Foreign Investment, the Chairman of 
Houjie Association of Enterprises with Foreign Investment. He is also 
the Vice-Director of Electric Tool Sub-Association of China Electrical 
Equipment Industrial Association.

Mr Chan is a fellow member of The Association of Chartered  
Certified Accountants and the Hong Kong Institute of Certified  
Public Accountants.

Mr Frank Chi Chung Chan, aged 65, joined the Group in 1991 and 
was appointed as Executive Director in 1992. He is now responsible 
for corporate affairs and financial management of the Group.

Mr Chan is a fellow member of The Association of Chartered  
Certified Accountants and the Hong Kong Institute of Certified  
Public Accountants, a fellow member of The Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England & Wales and qualified to practise as a Certified 
Public Accountant in Hong Kong.

Mr Chan is currently an Independent Non-executive Director of  
Gold Peak Industries (Holdings) Limited which is listed on the stock 
exchange of Hong Kong. 

61

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung GBS BBS JP, aged 66, is a Co-founder of 
TTI. Prof Chung, previously the Group Managing Director since 1985, 
was appointed as the Group Vice Chairman and Executive Director  
of the Company on April 18, 2007. He has been re-designated to 
Non-executive Director of the Company with effect from July 1, 2011.

Prof Chung holds a Doctor of Engineering Degree from the University 
of Warwick, United Kingdom and Doctor of Business Administration 
Degree from City University of Macau. He was appointed as an 
Industrial Professor by the University of Warwick, United Kingdom in 
December 2010. He was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Business 
Administration by the Lingnan University in 2015, an Honorary Doctor 
of Business Administration by the Hong Kong Polytechnic University 
in 2007 and an Honorary Doctorate Degree by the University of 
Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia in 2006. He was awarded  
the Gold Bauhinia Star (GBS) Medal and the Bronze Bauhinia Star 
(BBS) Medal by the Hong Kong SAR Government on June 30, 2017 
and July 1, 2011 respectively. He was also appointed as Justice of 
Peace by the Hong Kong SAR Government on July 1, 2005 and won 
the Hong Kong Young Industrialists Award in 1997. In November 2014, 
he was further awarded the Industrialist of the Year.

Prof Chung is highly dedicated to the advancement of industry and 
was the Chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries until 
July 5, 2013. In addition, Prof Chung holds positions on a number  
of Hong Kong SAR Government advisory committees and is also  
an active member of many social committees and associations.  
He has been appointed as Chairman of Vocational Training Council 
since January 1, 2018.

Prof Chung is also an Independent Non-executive Director of TK 
Group (Holdings) Limited, Fujikon Industrial Holdings Limited and 
Vitasoy International Holdings Limited (effective June 24, 2017).  
Prof Chung retired as Independent Non-executive Director of  
Kin Yat Holdings Limited and KFM Kingdom Holdings Limited 
effective August 25, 2014 and August 27, 2015 respectively.

Non-executive Directors

Roy Chi Ping Chung GBS, BBS, JP

62

Board of DirectorsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Non-executive Directors (continued) 

Camille Jojo

Independent Non-executive Directors 

Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Camille Jojo, aged 62, was appointed as a Non-executive Director 
with effect from October 30, 2015. Mr Jojo has practiced as a lawyer 
in Hong Kong for a continuous period in excess of 30 years as  
a specialist in (i) civil litigation in the higher courts of Hong Kong,  
(ii) arbitration and (iii) regulatory. He graduated with a LL.B. Hons. 
degree from the University of Cardiff in 1977 and obtained his 
Professional Qualifying Examination Certificate from Guildford College 
of Law in 1978. He was qualified and was admitted as a solicitor of 
the Supreme Court of England and Wales in 1980, as a solicitor of  
the Supreme Court of Hong Kong in 1982 and as a solicitor and 
barrister of the Supreme Court of Victoria, Australia in 1984.  
Mr Jojo was admitted as a fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Arbitrators in November 1997. He has been a member of the Law 
Society Insolvency Law Committee since 1996 and was granted 
Higher Rights of Audience as a solicitor advocate in respect of civil 
proceedings in the Hong Kong Courts in 2015. Mr Jojo was awarded 
the Dispute Resolution Lawyer of the Year 2018 at the 17th Annual 
Hong Kong Law Awards. He is a Partner of Norton Rose Fulbright 
Hong Kong and head of its dispute resolution practice in Hong Kong.

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley, aged 74, was appointed as an 
Independent Non-executive Director in May 2001.

Mr Langley was formerly an Executive Director of The Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd and is currently a Non-executive 
Director of Lei Shing Hong Limited which has been delisted from  
the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited on March 17, 2008.

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann, aged 74, was appointed as an Independent 
Non-executive Director in 2004. He was General Manager of 
Dresdner Bank AG Hong Kong Branch between 1994 and 1998 and 
General Manager of Dresdner Bank AG Dubai before he retired in 
August 2004. Mr Kuhlmann is a graduate of the Banking Academy, 
Hamburg and has extensive experience in the finance and banking 
industry. Since 2005 he served as “Hamburg Ambassador” in the 
UAE to support the economic ties between Hamburg, Germany  
and the UAE. He retired from that position in May 2013 as he had 
moved his residence to Cyprus.

63

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Mr Peter David Sullivan, aged 70, was appointed as Independent 
Non-executive Director effective February 1, 2008. He was  
an Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of Standard 
Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited. Mr Sullivan held governance 
responsibility for franchises of the Standard Chartered Group in 
Japan, Australia, the Philippines and Bohai Bank in Tianjin, China. 
He also held a number of other major appointments, including as  
the Chairman of the Hong Kong Association of Banks and the British 
Chamber of Commerce.

Mr Sullivan has been appointed as a Non-executive Director to  
the boards of Standard Bank Group and The Standard Bank of  
South Africa Limited with effect from January 15, 2013. He is a 
Non-executive Director of Circle Health LTD, AXA ASIA, AXA China 
Region Insurance Company Limited and AXA General Insurance 
Hong Kong. Mr Sullivan was an Independent Non-executive Director 
of Standard Bank plc London and SmarTone Telecommunications 
Holdings Limited, a Non-executive Director of AXA Asia Pacific 
Holdings Limited that was listed on the Australian and New Zealand 
stock exchanges.

Mr Sullivan holds a Bachelor of Science (Physical Education) Degree 
from the University of New South Wales (Wollongong).

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung, aged 77, was appointed as a Director 
in 1991 and was re-designated as an Independent Non-executive 
Director on March 30, 2012.

Mr Cheung is a graduate in law from University College London and 
has been a practising solicitor since 1970. He is qualified to practice 
law in Hong Kong and England and Wales and he is now a Consultant 
of Vincent T.K. Cheung, Yap & Co. He is also a Fellow of University 
College London and a Commandeur de l’Ordre du Mérite Agricole  
of France.

Independent Non-executive Directors (continued)

Peter David Sullivan BS

Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

64

Board of DirectorsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Independent Non-executive Directors (continued)

Johannes-Gerhard Hesse

Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse (commonly known as Hans-Gerd 
Hesse), aged 59, was appointed as an Independent Non-executive 
Director of the Company with effect from October 1, 2016.  
Mr Hesse holds a graduate degree in Business Administration  
from the University of Cologne and has acquired extensive business 
management, strategy, leadership and corporate governance 
experience in Europe and Asia.

Mr Hesse’s professional career turned global in 1988 when joining  
RJ Reynolds International, a division of RJR Nabisco Inc., where  
he henceforth held market research and marketing positions in 
Germany, its regional headquarters in Switzerland and the Czech 
Republic. In 1996 he was appointed General Manager Hungary and 
in 1998 Regional Vice President Marketing for the Commonwealth  
of Independent States & Baltics (i.e. former Soviet Union). In 1999, 
JT International, a division of Japan Tobacco Inc. (“JTI”), appointed 
Mr Hesse as General Manager Singapore, Philippines & Australasia. 
He became Vice President & General Manager China in 2002 and 
served simultaneously as Vice Chairman on the board of directors  
of China American Cigarette Co. JV in Xiamen. In 2003 followed his 
appointment to Vice President Corporate Strategy at JTI’s global 
headquarters. In 2007, Mr Hesse joined JTI’s Executive Committee 
as Regional President Asia Pacific based in Hong Kong, holding 
concurrently governance and board director responsibilities in 
affiliates of the JTI Group of Companies in Asia. He retired from these 
positions before the end of 2010. From 2011 onwards, Mr Hesse 
started to develop his proprietary investment holding and business 
advisory company, maintaining permanent residency in Hong Kong 
and Switzerland.

65

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018The Company strikes for high standard corporate governance 
to enhance shareholders’ interests and promote sustainable 
development. A quality board of directors (the “Board”) for 
leadership, effective internal controls, as well as transparency and 
accountability to all shareholders are essential to the Company. The 
Board reviewed the codes and practices of corporate governance 
and the disclosure of this Corporate Governance Report, from time to 
time, to improve the Company’s corporate governance practices with 
regards to the latest developments on all applicable laws, rules and 
regulations.

Compliance with the Corporate Governance 
Code
The Board has reviewed the Company’s corporate governance 
practices and is satisfied that the Company has complied with all 
the code provisions of the Corporate Governance Code set out in 
Appendix 14 of the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the 
Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”) (the 
“Corporate Governance Code”) throughout the year ended December 
31, 2018, save that none of the Directors are appointed for a specific 
term since they are subject to retirement by rotation and re-election 
in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company. Under 
Article 107(A) of the Articles of Association of the Company, one-third 
of the Board must retire by rotation at each general meeting of the 
Company, and if eligible, offer themselves for re-election.

The Company has also voluntarily complied with a number of the 
recommended best practices set out in the Corporate Governance 
Code, aimed at further enhancement of the Company’s corporate 
governance standard as well as promotion of the best interests of the 
Company and shareholders as a whole.

Corporate Governance Policy
The Board continuously develops, reviews and monitors the corporate 
governance policies and practices to ensure compliance with the 
Company’s Articles of Association and the laws, rules and regulatory 
requirements governing the Group. The corporate governance 
function performed by the Board through, but not limited to, the 
following:

• 

review compliance of the Corporate Governance Code and the 
disclosure set out in this Corporate Governance Report.

•  monitor and review compliance of the Model Code for Securities 

Transactions by Directors, the Code for Securities Transactions 
by Relevant Employees and other codes of conduct of the 
Company.

•  monitor and review the training and continuous professional 

development of Directors and senior management.

Board of Directors
Roles and Responsibilities
With an effective corporate governance framework, the Board is 
collectively responsible for leading, supervising and setting directions 
and strategies for the affairs of the Group to strike for long term 
success of the Company. The principal responsibilities of the Board 
include, but are not limited to, the following:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

develop and review overall mid-term and long-term strategy and 
direction of the Company.

review and monitor risks and changes in local and international 
business communities in order to enhance shareholders’ value.

oversee the Company’s operations and financial performance 
through determination of the annual budget and continuous 
review of performance results.

consider matters covering major acquisitions and disposals, 
appointment of Directors, senior management and external 
auditors, as well as other significant operational matters.

formulate the Company’s policies and practices on corporate 
governance.

The Board continuously monitors the delegation and the reservation 
for decision and consideration of specifically identified matters, with 
specific functions are delegated to Board Committees and senior 
management of the Group. The Company has adopted formal written 
procedures, which are reviewed regularly, for the governance of 
delegation and reservation of responsibilities of the Board.

66

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Corporate Governance ReportBoard Composition
As at the date of this report, the Board consists of five Group 
Executive Directors, two Non-executive Directors and five 
Independent Non-executive Directors. An analysis of the current 
composition of the Board of the Company is set out below:

Group Executive Directors
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill (Chairman)
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill (Vice Chairman)
Mr Joseph Galli Jr (Chief Executive Officer)
Mr Kin Wah Chan (Operations Director)
Mr Chi Chung Chan (Group Chief Financial Officer)

Non-executive Directors
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung GBS BBS JP
Mr Camille Jojo

Independent Non-executive Directors
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung
Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse

Number of Directors

12

11

10

9

8

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

0

Male

ED

Non-
Chinese

66-77

100%

31-40

NED

INED

Chinese

51-65

41-50

21-30

11-20

0-10

Gender

Designation

Ethnicity

Age 
Group

Attendance Rate at 
Board and Board
Committee Meetings

Length of 
Service

Educational Background

The biographical details and relevant relationships of the members 
of the Board are set out on pages 60 to 65 of this annual report. A 
list of Directors and their roles and functions are published on the 
Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com) and the Stock Exchange’s 
website (www.hkexnews.hk).

Professional Experience

Accounting

Business

Engineering

Legal

Others

Science

Accounting

Banking

Consumer Products

Industrial

Legal

Properties & Investment Holding

Technology/Telecom

67

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018The Nomination Committee recommends the appointment 
of directors for approval of the Board. Before accepting their 
appointment, Directors are aware that they must be able to contribute 
sufficient time and attention to the affairs of the Company. A formal 
orientation is provided for each newly appointed Director, which 
details the duties and responsibilities of Directors under the Listing 
Rules, the Company’s Articles of Association, and related ordinances 
and relevant regulatory requirements of Hong Kong. Presentations 
by external professionals and senior executives of the Company are 
also provided to ensure a proper understanding of the Company’s 
business and operations.

Directors are subject to retirement by rotation at least once every 
three years in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association 
and the Listing Rules. Any Directors appointed to fill a casual vacancy 
would be subject to election by shareholders at the next annual 
general meeting after their appointment. Independent Non-executive 
Directors and Non-executive Directors form a majority of the Board, 
and the Independent Non-executive Directors represent over 
one-third of the Board as at the date of this report. Furthermore, 
majority of the Independent Non-executive Directors possesses 
professional qualifications or accounting or related financial 
management expertise as required under Rule 3.10 of the Listing 
Rules. All Independent Non-executive Directors meet the guidelines 
for assessing independence set out in Rule 3.13 of the Listing Rules. 
Annual confirmation of independence from each of the Independent 
Non-executive Directors has been received by the Company and they 
are still considered to be independent.

The Board has arranged appropriate Directors’ and Officers’ liability 
insurance to indemnify the Directors and Officers of the Group for 
liabilities arising out of corporate activities. The coverage and the sum 
insured under the policy are reviewed annually.

In order to promote balance of authority, accountability and power, 
the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company 
have been segregated and clearly distinguished.

The roles of Chairman comprise, but are not limited to, the following:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

take the lead to ensure the Board discharges its responsibilities 
and performs effectively.

oversee and ensure sound practices and procedures.

ensure all Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at 
Board meetings and always receive timely, accurate and reliable 
information.

encourage all Directors to make active and full contributions to 
the Board’s affairs.

lead the Board to ensure it acts in the best interests of the 
Company.

enhance effective communication with shareholders and 
encourage the views of shareholders are communicated to the 
Board as a whole.

The roles of Chief Executive Officer comprise, but are not limited to, 
the following:

execute the Company’s strategic initiatives.

provide leadership for the global management team in the 
Group’s daily operations.

enhance the global sales potential of the Company’s strong 
brand portfolio and facilitate the integration of acquisitions, if 
any.

• 

• 

• 

68

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Corporate Governance ReportDirectors’ Continuous Professional Development
To ensure that Directors are aware of the latest development in the 
commercial and regulatory environment in which the Company 
conducts its business, all Directors are provided with regular training, 
updates and written materials on relevant laws, rules and regulations. 
The Directors are encouraged to participate in various professional 
development programs especially in relation to compliance 
requirements to develop and refresh their knowledge and skills and 
the latest updates on relevant rules, regulations in order to ensure 
that the Directors’ contribution to the Board remains informed and 
relevant.

All Directors participate in continuous professional development as 
set out in code provision A.6.5 of the Corporate Governance Code. 
According to the records of training provided by each Director to 
the Company, the training received by the Directors in 2018 is 
summarized in the following table:

Type of Continuous Professional  
Development Programme

Updates on 
business 
operations, 
laws, 
rules and
regulations 
or corporate 
governance 
matters

Updates on 
directors’ 
roles, 
functions 
and duties

Updates on 
accounting, 
financial 
or other 
professional 
skills

√
√
√
√
√

√
√

√
√
√
√
√

√
√
√
√
√

√
√

√
√
√
√
√

√
√

√
√

√

√
√

Group Executive Directors
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill
Mr Joseph Galli Jr
Mr Kin Wah Chan
Mr Chi Chung Chan

Non-executive Directors
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung GBS BBS JP
Mr Camille Jojo

Independent Non-executive Directors
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung
Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse

Compliance with the Codes for  
Securities Transactions
The provisions of the Model Code for Securities Transactions by 
Directors of Listed Issuers set out in Appendix 10 of the Listing Rules 
(the “Model Code”) has been adopted by the Board. In response to 
the specific enquiries made, all Directors have confirmed that they 
have fully complied with the required standards as set out in the 
Model Code during the year ended December 31, 2018.

The Company has also adopted another code of conduct on terms 
no less onerous than the Model Code that applies to securities 
transactions of all relevant employees who may be in possession of 
unpublished price sensitive information in relation to the Company 
(the “Code for Securities Transactions by Relevant Employees”). 
During the year, no incident of non-compliance was noted by the 
Company.

Both the Model Code and the Code for Securities Transactions by 
Relevant Employees have been published on the Company’s website 
(www.ttigroup.com).

Board Meetings
The Board meetings of the Company are held regularly, at least four 
Board meetings are scheduled in a year with more frequent meetings 
as and when required in order to facilitate the effectiveness of the 
Board. In 2018, five Board meetings were held and the attendance 
records of each Director are set out in the section headed “Board, 
Board Committee and General Meetings in 2018” at the end of this 
report.

To ensure maximum attendance of Directors, Board meeting, Board 
Committee meeting and Annual General Meeting dates for 2019 
were agreed upon at the Board meeting held in August 2018. The 
meeting agenda is set by the Chairman in consultation with members 
of the Board to include any other matters raised by Directors in 
advance. Minutes of the Board and Board Committee meetings with 
sufficient details of matters and concerns discussed are prepared and 
maintained by the Company Secretary of the Company (the “Company 
Secretary”), which are sent to the Directors for comment and records. 
Board records which are kept in safe custody by the Company 
Secretary are available for inspection by the Directors.

69

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018All Directors are provided with accurate reliable and complete 
information on the affairs of the Group in a timely manner. They 
have access to all related materials in relation to the Board’s 
issues to facilitate informed decisions with sufficient details. To 
enhance understanding of the business of the Group and Directors’ 
responsibilities under statute and at common law, all Directors 
are provided with briefings and professional development training 
as necessary. The Company Secretary provide full support to the 
Directors in order to ensure Board procedures and all applicable 
laws, rules and regulations are followed. Directors are also provided 
with access to senior management of the Group upon request, as well 
as to independent professional advice on performing their duties at 
the Company’s expense.

Board Committees
The Board has established three Board Committees, namely the 
Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration 
Committee, to delegate various responsibilities. Each of these Board 
Committees has specific written terms of reference which deal clearly 
with their authority and duties and have been published on the 
Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com) and the Stock Exchange’s 
website (www.hkexnews.hk).

Independent Non-executive Directors form majority of all Board 
Committees. With regular attendance and active participation of 
Independent Non-executive Directors, independent views and 
opinions are encouraged to be contributed and expressed at the 
Board Committee meetings. The Board monitors and oversees the 
delegated authority and responsibilities through regular reporting 
by the Board Committees in relation to their activities involved and 
recommendations and decisions made. The attendance records of 
each Board Committee are set out in the section headed “Board, 
Board Committee and General Meetings in 2018” at the end of this 
report.

Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is formed by four Independent Non-executive 
Directors and chaired by Mr Peter David Sullivan with other members 
being Mr Manfred Kuhlmann, Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung and 
Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse. Most of the members of the Audit 
Committee have professional qualifications or accounting or related 
financial management expertise as required under Rule 3.10 of the 
Listing Rules.

The Audit Committee aims to ensure compliance with the Group’s 
obligations under the Listing Rules and other applicable laws and 
regulations as well as effectiveness of the risk management and 
internal control systems. It also oversees the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Company. The Audit Committee is also directly 
responsible on behalf of the Board for the selection, oversight and 
remuneration of the Company’s external auditors, the assessment 
of the independence and qualifications of the external auditors, the 
oversight of the performance of the Company’s external auditors and 
the maintenance of an appropriate relationship with the external 
auditors.

The Audit Committee held four meetings in 2018 and performed 
duties summarized below:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

review and make recommendations to the Board for the approval 
of the interim and annual financial statements of the Group.

review the Group’s accounting principles and practices, financial 
reporting matters and significant financial matters.

review the scope, extent and effectiveness of internal audit 
function of the Group.

review and assist to maintain the effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management and internal controls systems.

oversee the relationship between the Company and the external 
auditors, recommend the re-appointment of the external auditors 
and review the audit and non-audit services provided by the 
external auditors.

70

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Corporate Governance ReportNomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr Horst Julius Pudwill 
(Chairman of the Board) with the other members being Mr Vincent 
Ting Kau Cheung, Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE, Mr Manfred 
Kuhlmann and Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse (who has been 
appointed with effect from March 6, 2019). All members except 
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill are Independent Non-executive Directors.

The Nomination Committee aims to ensure a fair and transparent 
process of Board appointments, and in particular, to assist the Board 
to identify suitably qualified candidates and make recommendations 
for consideration of the Board and shareholders. In their 
recommendations, the Nomination Committee considers factors 
including, but not limited to, ethics, professional knowledge, integrity, 
industry experience and personal skills as well as the ability to 
contribute sufficient time and attention to the Board when considering 
suitable candidates of Directors.

The Nomination Committee held two meetings in 2018. The work 
performed by the Nomination Committee in 2018, with sufficient 
resources provided by the Company and/or independent professional 
advice when necessary, included:

• 

• 

review the Board Diversity Policy and the Nomination Policy.

review of the structure, size and composition of the Board on a 
regular basis.

•  make recommendations to the Board on relevant matters 

relating to the retirement and re-election of the Directors at the 
2018 Annual General Meeting.

• 

assess the independence of Independent Non-executive 
Directors.

The Board has adopted the Board Diversity Policy in August 2013, 
which is published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com). 
Widening diversity at the Board level is essential for sustainable 
development of the Group. The Nomination Committee would 
consider various perspectives, including, but not limited to, age, 
gender, cultural and educational background, professional experience 
and length of service while reviewing the composition of the Board. 
An analysis of the current Board composition based on these 
objective criteria is set out on page 67 of this report.

Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is formed by majority of Independent 
Non-executive Directors and is chaired by Mr Vincent Ting Kau 
Cheung with the other members being Mr Christopher Patrick 
Langley OBE, Mr Manfred Kuhlmann, Mr Peter David Sullivan and 
Mr Camille Jojo.

The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include, but 
not limited to, developing and administering a fair and transparent 
procedure for setting policy on the overall human resources 
strategy of the Group and the remuneration of Directors and senior 
management of the Group, and determining their remuneration 
packages, on the basis of their competence, merit and qualifications, 
and having regard to individual performance, comparable market 
statistics and the Company’s return to shareholders and operating 
results. The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations 
to the Board on the remuneration packages of Executive Directors 
and senior management, including, without limitation, base 
salaries, benefits in kind, compensation payments and bonuses, 
and consults the Chairman and/or Chief Executive Officer for the 
proposals of other Executive Directors’ remuneration packages. The 
Remuneration Committee also makes recommendations to the Board 
on the remuneration of Non-executive Directors and Independent 
Non-executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee reports 
directly to the Board on its decisions or recommendations and with 
access to sufficient resources and professional advice if necessary.

The Remuneration Committee held two meetings in 2018 and 
performed, among other work, the following:

• 

• 

assess the Executive Directors’ performance and remuneration 
packages.

review and make recommendations on the existing 
Remuneration Policy for Directors and senior management.

The Group engages a global executive compensation consulting firm 
as an independent third party to review the compensation of the CEO. 
The compensation of the Group’s CEO was assessed relative to similar 
CEO positions at 20 similarly sized peer companies operating in the 
same or adjacent industries. The consultant’s assessment took into 
account the Group’s absolute share price, financial and operational 
performance, as well as that relative to the peer companies.

71

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018As shown in the chart below, over the past five years the Group has outperformed the peer companies in a number of key performance metrics 
such as revenue growth, EBIT growth, diluted EPS growth, gross profit margin improvement and stock price performance.

Five Year Performance Metrics Growth

%

120

100

80

60

40

20

0

-20

%

0.8

0.6

0.4

0.2

0.0

-0.2

-0.4

Revenue CAGR

EBIT CAGR

Diluted EPS CAGR

TSR

Gross Proﬁt % point
increase (annualized)

P25

P50

Average

P75

TTI

Source: Peer companies’ data from S&P Capital IQ

The Remuneration Committee reviewed and recommended to the 
Board for approval the 2018 incentive payouts for the CEO in the 
context of this strong performance delivered by the Group.

To retain Mr Galli as a CEO with a long track record of exceptional 
performance and to incentivize him to continue to deliver 
superior, sustainable, long-term results, the Remuneration 
Committee recommended, and the Board approved, multi-year 
performance-based share awards to Mr Galli (“CEO Share Awards”) 
subject to the Company’s achievement of share price and operational 
performance criteria (“Performance Criteria”) over the period 2019 to 
2023 to be specified by the Remuneration Committee. Provided the 
Company meets the Performance Criteria each year, Mr Galli will be 
awarded one million shares per year over five years for a total of five 
million shares. The first award will be made on or about  
January 1, 2020 for performance achievement over the 2019 financial 
year. All awarded shares will vest on the anniversary of the fifth award 
date, provided Mr Galli remains an employee in good standing at 
the Company through the vesting date. The CEO Share Awards will 
further align Mr Galli’s interest with those of the shareholders and 
help assure his services to the company through the vesting date. 
The CEO Share Awards will be made under the 2018 Share Award 
Scheme.

The Company has two share award schemes in place, namely the 
2008 Share Award Scheme and the 2018 Share Award Scheme. The 
2008 Share Award Scheme was adopted on January 9, 2008 (the 
“2008 Adoption Date”) and expired from January 9, 2018, though its 
provisions shall remain in full force and effect in all other respects. 
Following the expiry of the 2008 Share Award Scheme, the 2018 
Share Award Scheme was adopted with effect from January 17, 2018 
(the “2018 Adoption Date”).

The scheme rules of both the 2008 Share Award Scheme and the 
2018 Share Award Scheme are substantially identical and below are 
the summary of the principal terms of both schemes:

Any employee or Director (including, without limitation, any 
Executive, Non-executive or Independent Non-executive Director) of 
any member of the Group (the “Eligible Person”) will be entitled to 
participate the schemes. Unless terminated earlier by the Board in 
accordance with the respective scheme rules, the effective term of 
each scheme is 10 years commencing on the adoption date of the 
relevant scheme provided that no contribution to the trust will be 
made by the Company on or after the 10th anniversary date of the 
adoption date of the relevant scheme. Details of both schemes were 
announced by the Company on the respective adoption date of each 
scheme.

72

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Corporate Governance ReportThe Board may, from time to time, at their absolute discretion select any Eligible Person for participation in any scheme as a selected grantee (the 
“Selected Grantee”) and determine the number of shares to be awarded or make reference to a nominal amount. The relevant number of shares 
awarded will be purchased by the trustee of the schemes from the market or new shares will be subscribed for by the trustee at the cost of the 
Company and be held in trust until they are vested. When the Selected Grantee has satisfied all vesting conditions specified by the Board, the 
trustee will transfer the relevant vested shares together with the income derived therefrom (net of accrued interest) to the Selected Grantee.

The maximum number of shares which can be awarded under each scheme is 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the 
adoption date thereof, and the maximum number of shares which can be awarded under each scheme to a Selected Grantee, at any one time, 
shall not in aggregate exceed 1% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the adoption date thereof. The total issued share capital of the 
Company as at the 2008 Adoption Date and the 2018 Adoption Date were 1,501,252,152 shares and 1,835,021,941 shares, respectively.

Since the 2008 Adoption Date and up to December 31, 2018, a total of 3,946,000 shares had been awarded under the 2008 Share Award 
Scheme, representing 0.26% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the 2008 Adoption Date. Recognition of share-based payment 
expenses under the 2008 Share Award Scheme during the year was US$471,000. During the year ended December 31, 2018, a total of 10,500 
shares had been awarded under the 2008 Share Award Scheme to one Director of the Company, representing less than 0.01% of the issued 
share capital of the Company as at the 2008 Adoption Date. The total payout, including related expenses, amounted to US$42,000. In addition, 
during the year ended December 31, 2018, 160,500 shares were transferred to the Selected Grantees upon vesting under the 2008 Share 
Award Scheme.

Since the 2018 Adoption Date and up to December 31, 2018, a total of 1,164,000 shares had been awarded under the 2018 Share Award 
Scheme to five Directors of the Company, representing 0.06% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the 2018 Adoption Date. 
Recognition of share-based payment expenses under the 2018 Share Award Scheme during the year was US$1,873,000. The total payout, 
including related expenses, amounted to US$4,538,000. During the year ended December 31, 2018, no share was vested under the 2018 
Share Award Scheme. As at December 31, 2018, details of the awarded shares under the 2008 Share Award Scheme and the 2018 Share 
Award Scheme were as follows:

Date of 
Award

Share award 
scheme 
category

Number of 
awarded 
shares

As at 
January 1, 
2018

Awarded 
during 
the year

Vested 
during 
the year

Lapsed 
during 
the year

As at 
December 31, 
2018

Closing price 
at the Date 
of Award

Vesting Period

Number of shares

—   18.9.2015  –  18.9.2017

HK$22.50

Name of Directors

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Mr Camille Jojo

18.9.2014

26.9.2014
15.10.2015
23.3.2017
21.3.2018
15.10.2015
21.3.2018
17.12.2014
15.10.2015
19.8.2016
21.3.2018
15.10.2015
21.3.2018
15.10.2015
21.3.2018

4.1.2017
8.1.2018

2008

2008
2008
2008
2018
2008
2018
2008
2008
2008
2018
2008
2018
2008
2018

2008
2008

350,000

174,000
500,000
300,000
500,000
100,000
50,000
300,000
1,000,000
1,000,000
514,000
100,000
50,000
100,000
50,000

11,500
10,500

—

—
—

300,000
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—
—

—

—
—
—

500,000
—

50,000
—
—
—

514,000
—

50,000
—

50,000
—

10,500

—

—
—

(150,000)
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—

(10,500)

Total

5,110,000

300,000

1,174,500

(160,500)

1,314,000

—

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—
—

—

—   26.9.2015  –  26.9.2017
—  15.10.2016  –  15.10.2017
  23.3.2018  –  23.3.2019
  15.3.2019  –  15.3.2022
15.10.2016
  15.3.2019  –  15.3.2022
—  17.12.2015  –  17.12.2017
—  15.10.2016  –  15.10.2017
—
31.8.2016
  15.3.2019  –  15.3.2022
15.10.2016
  15.3.2019  –  15.3.2022
15.10.2016
  15.3.2019  –  15.3.2022

150,000
500,000
—

50,000

514,000
—

50,000
—

50,000
—
—

4.1.2017
8.1.2018

HK$22.10
HK$27.10
HK$32.15
HK$47.00
HK$27.10
HK$47.00
HK$25.85
HK$27.10
HK$30.50
HK$47.00
HK$27.10
HK$47.00
HK$27.10
HK$47.00

HK$28.00
HK$51.50

73

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes:

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

All the awarded shares are purchased from the market.

At the end of the year, the average fair value per share is HK$30.30. The 
average fair value of the awarded shares is based on the average purchase 
cost.

 During the reporting year, a total of 2,800,000 shares were purchased at an 
aggregate consideration of US$15,191,000 for satisfying the awards granted 
pursuant to the 2008 Share Award Scheme and the 2018 Share Award 
Scheme.

(4) 

10,000 shares were awarded and vested to Mr Camille Jojo on January 2, 
2019.

Change in Director’s Emoluments
Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse, an Independent Non-executive 
Director, was appointed as member of the Nomination Committee 
with effect from March 6, 2019. Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse will be 
entitled to the Nomination Committee fee which has been fixed by the 
Board.

The Remuneration Committee reviewed and recommended changes 
to Directors’ Emoluments in March 2019. These changes were 
approved by the Board and will be effective as of January 1, 2019.

• 

• 

• 

• 

Eliminated meeting fees to Non-executive Directors and 
Independent Non-executive Directors for attending Board and 
Board committee meetings

Increased the annual basic Director fee in cash to HK$600,000

Included as the basic Director fee an annual grant of shares to 
vest on the first anniversary of the date of award

Adjusted the Remuneration Committee and Nomination 
Committee chair and member fees to HK$100,000 and 
HK$60,000, respectively

The new remuneration framework for Non-executive Directors and 
Independent Non-executive Directors is as follows:

Board
  – Basic fee (cash)
  – Basic fee (shares)
Audit Committee
  – Chairman
  – Member
Nomination Committee
  – Chairman
  – Member
Remuneration Committee
  – Chairman
  – Member

74

HK$600,000
Varies

HK$225,000
HK$150,000

HK$100,000
HK$60,000

HK$100,000
HK$60,000

The changes to the Non-Executive Directors’ and Independent 
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration arrangements are intended 
to simplify and standardize the overall package while improving the 
Directors’ alignment with shareholders through annual grants of 
Company shares.

Company Secretary
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board 
procedures are followed. All Directors have access to the advice 
and services of the Company Secretary. The Company Secretary is 
also responsible for facilitating information flow and communication 
among Directors as well as with Shareholders and management 
of the Company. The Company Secretary is an employee of the 
Company and is appointed by the Board. The Company Secretary 
undertook over 15 hours of professional training to update her skills 
and knowledge every year.

Accountability and Audit
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for overseeing the 
preparation of the accounts of the Group which give a true and fair 
view of the Group’s state of affairs, results and cash flows for the year.

The Board will present a balanced, clear and understandable 
assessment of annual and interim reports, other price-sensitive 
announcements and other financial disclosures required under the 
Listing Rules, and reports to the regulators as well as information 
required to be disclosed pursuant to statutory requirements.

Risk Management and Internal Controls
Risk management and internal control is essential for the Group’s 
achievement of its long term goals. The Board continuously monitors 
and reviews key internal control policies which include the treasury 
management policy, delegated authorities, policy on market 
disclosure, investor and media relations and non-audit services, 
as well as key risk management functions which include treasury, 
capital management, insurance and legal. In order to maintain a 
sound and effective risk management and internal control systems, 
the Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the risk 
management and internal control systems of the Company, which 
is designed to manage and minimize risks of failure in operational 
systems, and to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that 
material misstatement or loss can be avoided. A whistle blowing 
policy (the “Whistle Blowing Policy”) has been adopted in order to 
detect and identify improprieties and bring the issues to the attention 
of the management, the Audit Committee as well as the Board.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Corporate Governance ReportThe Board, and in particular the Audit Committee, conducts 
a continuous review of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control systems that have been put in 
place. The reviews covering financial, operational, and compliance 
controls and risk management performed in 2018 included:

External Auditors
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, the external auditors of the Group, 
provided the following audit and non-audit services to the Group in 
2018:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

the delegated authorities and organization structure as well as 
the strategic and annual operating plan.

the scope and quality of management’s ongoing monitoring 
of risks and system of internal control and the effectiveness of 
the Company’s procedures relating to statutory and regulatory 
compliance.

the regular internal audit updates.

the performance and adequacy of accounting and financial 
reporting functions.

the risk management process including formal risk assessment 
at the enterprise level upon discussions with senior management 
responsible for day-to-day management of significant risks.

The internal audit function is essential to provide an independent 
and objective assurance to the Audit Committee and the Board in 
controlling the internal business environment. The Internal Auditor 
reports periodically to the Audit Committee and meets the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee regularly. The internal audit function maintain 
independent review continuously on key business aspects in 
accordance with the annual audit plan, and report the key findings to 
the Board through the Audit Committee.

The procedures and internal controls for handling and disseminating 
of inside information are governed by the Model Code, the Code for 
Securities Transactions by Relevant Employees, the Whistle Blowing 
Policy, the Policy on Market Disclosure, Investor and Media Relations 
with a view to ensure compliance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association and the statutory and regulatory requirements that the 
Group is subject to.

In light of the above reviews and policies, the Board confirms that the 
Group’s risk management and internal controls systems are effective 
and adequate.

Nature of Services

External Audit Services
Taxation Services
Other Services

Amount 
(US$ million)

2.4
0.3
—

The other services provided by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu comprised 
professional services conducted under the terms of specified 
engagements.

The nature and ratio of annual fees to external auditors for audit 
services and non-audit services are subject to scrutiny by the Audit 
Committee to ensure the independence of the external auditors.  
All non-audit services from external auditors are regulated by a  
Policy on Non-Audit Services published on the Company’s website  
(www.ttigroup.com).

The Audit Committee and the external auditors of the Group meet 
twice a year without the presence of the management of the Group 
to enhance independent reporting by external auditors of the Group. 
In order to maintain effective communication with shareholders, 
the external auditors attended the 2018 Annual General Meeting 
to answer questions about the accounting policies, the auditor 
independence, the conduct of the audit and the preparation and 
content of the auditors’ report.

Investor Relations and Shareholder 
Communications
The Company aims to maintain effective communication and on-going 
dialogue with its shareholders and investors particularly through the 
following major means:

Shareholders’ Communication Policy
The Board has adopted the Shareholders’ Communication Policy 
on March 22, 2012, which primarily covers the current practices 

75

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018for communicating with shareholders and is published on the 
Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com). All the Company’s circulars, 
announcements, notices and results of general meetings, annual and 
interim reports, and webcasts of results presentations conducted at 
press conferences, which are published on the Company’s website 
(www.ttigroup.com), provide timely, efficient and accurate information 
to shareholders and investors. Essential information is communicated 
to the shareholders mainly through the Company’s financial reports, 
general meetings and the information published on the Company’s 
website (www.ttigroup.com) and the Stock Exchange’s website  
(www.hkexnews.hk). In addition, the Company holds regular 
meetings with institutional shareholders and analysts and encourages 
shareholders to attend annual general meetings to communicate with 
Directors and management of the Company directly.

A Policy on Market Disclosure, Investor and Media Relations, 
published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com), ensures 
that the Company complies with its disclosure obligations under the 
Listing Rules and other applicable laws and regulations, and that 
all shareholders and potential investors have an equal opportunity 
to receive and obtain externally available information issued by the 
Company.

Shareholders’ Rights

Convening of extraordinary general meeting on requisition by 
shareholders

Pursuant to Article 64 of the Articles of Association of the Company 
and sections 566-568 of the Companies Ordinance (Chapter 622 of 
the laws of Hong Kong), shareholders holding at least 5% of the total 
voting rights of all the shareholders having a right to vote at general 
meetings of the Company (the “Requisitionists”), may request the 
Directors to convene an extraordinary general meeting (“EGM”). The 
written requisition must state the general nature of the business to be 
dealt with at the EGM and must be signed by the Requisitionists and 
sent to the registered office of the Company which is currently located 
at 29/F, Tower 2, Kowloon Commerce Centre, 51 Kwai Cheong 
Road, Kwai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong for the attention 
of the Company Secretary. The requisition may consist of several 
documents in like form and may include the text of a resolution that 
may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the EGM.

If the Directors do not, within 21 days after the date on which they 
become subject to the requirement, proceed duly to convene an EGM 
for a day not more than 28 days after the date of the notice convening 
the EGM, the Requisitionists, or any of them representing more 
than one half of the total voting rights of all of them, may themselves 
convene an EGM. The EGM must be called for a date not more than 
three months after the date on which the Directors become subject to 
the requirement to call an EGM. Any reasonable expenses incurred 
by the Requisitionists by reason of the failure of the Directors duly 
to convene an EGM shall be repaid to the Requisitionists by the 
Company.

Procedure for nominating a person for election as a Director

For the detailed procedure for shareholders to nominate a person to 
stand for election as Director, please refer to the written procedure 
named “Nomination of Directors by Shareholder” which is published 
on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com).

Procedure for directing shareholders’ enquiries to the Board
The Company values feedback from shareholders on its efforts to 
promote transparency and foster investor relationships. Shareholders 
may address their comments, suggestions and/or enquires to the 
Board in writing through Investor Relations and Communication 
(contact details are set out in the section headed “Corporate 
Information” of this annual report).

Procedure for putting forward proposals at general meetings

Pursuant to Section 615 of the Companies Ordinance, shareholders 
may submit a written requisition to circulate a resolution at an annual 
general meeting (“AGM”) if they: (a) represent at least 2.5% of the 
total voting rights of all shareholders having a right to vote on the 
resolution at the AGM to which the request relates; or (b) are at least 
50 shareholders having a right to vote on the resolution at the AGM to 
which the request relates.

The written requisition must: (a) identify the resolution of which notice 
is to be given; (b) be signed by the requisitionists; (c) be sent to the 
registered office of the Company for the attention of the Company 
Secretary; and (d) be received by the Company not later than six 
weeks before the AGM to which the request relates or if later, the time 
at which notice is given of that AGM. Shareholders are requested to 
refer to Section 580 and 615 of the Companies Ordinance for further 
details.

76

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Corporate Governance ReportConstitutional Document
No change has been made to the Company’s constitutional document during 2018. The constitutional document of the Company was published 
on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com) and the Stock Exchange’s website (www.hkexnews.hk).

Board, Board Committee and General Meetings in 2018
A summary of attendance of Board, Board Committee and general meetings in 2018 are detailed in the following table:

Number of meeting(s) held during the year

Group Executive Directors

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Non-executive Directors

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung GBS BBS JP

Mr Camille Jojo

Independent Non-executive Directors

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse(1)

Date(s) of meeting(s)

Meetings attended/Held in 2018

Audit 
Committee

Nomination 
Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

General 
Meeting

4

4/4

4/4

4/4

4/4

2

2/2

2/2

2/2

2/2

2

2/2

2/2

2/2

2/2

2/2

1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

Board

5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

5/5

16.1.2018

13.3.2018

17.5.2018

12.3.2018

17.5.2018

14.8.2018

15.8.2018

14.11.2018

14.11.2018

12.3.2018

14.8.2018

12.3.2018

14.8.2018

18.5.2018

Note:

(1) 

Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse was appointed as a member of the Nomination Committee with effect from March 6, 2019.

77

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Environmental, Social and Governance Report

TTI made significant progress in both expanding and 
deepening the integration of environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) practices and standards in 2018 as  
we continue to cement our position as a world-leading  
power equipment and household appliances manufacturer.

Strategy and Governance

People

Corporate Sustainability 
Strategy alignment with  
the UN SDGs

TTI employees engaged  
in 57,963 hours of online 
training on Learn TTI

see page 80

see page 101

Environment 

Health and Safety

AIP reduced electricity 
intensity by 18%

Zero work-related fatalities  
in 2018

see page 88

see page 100

Supply Chain Management

Communities

Online Compliance Platform 
implemented across all 
business units globally for 
suppliers of finished goods 
and raw materials

Over 12,000 volunteer  
hours in communities

see page 104

see page 106

78

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Introduction and Highlights
TTI is focused on transforming the industry through environmentally-
responsible cordless technology and strengthening measures to 
reduce energy and water consumption at the production stage.  
A large measure of our ability to grow, innovate and prosper depends 
on our ESG performance.

The culture of TTI is driven by an unrelenting strategic focus on 
Powerful Brands, Innovative Products, Operational Excellence and 
Exceptional People. We took several significant actions in 2018 that 
will guide our sustainability journey in the years to come.

Reporting Scope
This report covers the ESG initiatives and performance of TTI  
for the calendar year 2018 with reference to previous performance 
where relevant. The HKEX ESG Guide Content Index, which is 
available on TTI’s corporate website1 outlines how we address the 
Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEX)’s mandatory 
“comply or explain” requirements and recommended disclosures. 
This report has been endorsed by the Board of Directors  
(the “Board”) on March 6th 2019. The data in this report, unless 
otherwise stated, covers our operations in our North America,  
EMEA, Asia, Australia and New Zealand locations.

We are proud to share TTI’s 2018 sustainability achievements with 
our stakeholders.

Sustainability at TTI
Our commitment to sustainability is an essential part of TTI’s broader 
responsibility to our employees, customers, investors, suppliers, 
communities, NGO partners and our business. We are mindful of  
our actions and adopt stringent governance practices to manage our 
operations responsibly, reduce our impact on the environment, and 
strive to improve the everyday lives of people both in our business 
and the communities where we live and work.

In 2018, we reviewed and updated our corporate Sustainability 
Strategy and identified four strategic areas of focus, including human 
rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption with specific goals  
that support 14 of the 17 UN SDGs that are most relevant to TTI’s 
operations. TTI understands that disclosure is one of many drivers  
to improve ESG performance. Increased transparency supports our 
license to operate and enhances our reputation. Since we started 
reporting on ESG separately in our annual report in 2015, TTI has 
improved the comprehensiveness, quality and credibility of our 
disclosures and data to meet the expectations of stakeholders, 
including investors, as part of our integrated Sustainability Strategy.

1 

Our HKEX ESG Guide Content Index is available at www.ttigroup.com/ESG_Index_2018

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

79

• Developed a Sustainability Strategy and Implementation Plan to align our actions and goals globally, which are in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs)• Formalized the role of our ESG Working Committee to oversee our ESG direction and activities • Sharpened our focus on human rights, labor, environment, governance and anti-corruption practices with specific initiatives and goalsOur Environmental, Social and Governance Focus Areas 
The table below aligns the focus areas of our Sustainability Strategy with the UN SDGs and outlines key initiatives we undertake to implement  
our strategy. 

Focus Areas

Relevant UN SDGs

TTI Engagement

Social

Environment

Governance 

80

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

•  Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that outlines our values 

and requirements for human and labor rights

•  Policies for equal employment and to protect human  

and labor rights

•  Policy Against Slavery and Human Trafficking for own business 

and supply chain

•  Conflict Minerals Policy

•  Maintaining a safe and healthy workplace for our employees  

and treating everyone with respect and dignity

•  Training employees on compliance, education, leadership, 

professional and skill development

•  Gender equality initiatives

•  Environmental policies, GHG inventory management procedure, 
resource and energy management procedures and Code of 
Ethics and Business Conduct that outline our commitments for 
reducing environmental impact

•  Energy reduction initiatives in manufacturing plants

•  Water reuse initiatives in manufacturing plants

•  Battery recycling programs to reduce electronic waste

• 

• 

Introducing energy-efficient vehicles

Improving packaging to reduce material consumption and 
environmental impact

•  Environmental policies for suppliers to ensure compliance 

throughout the supply chain

•  Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and Business Partner Code 
of Conduct with policies that set requirements and emphasize 
the prohibition of corruption and bribes and provide guidelines 
that are acknowledged by all employees and suppliers

•  TTI Compliance hotline for employees and suppliers

•  Anti-corruption declaration signed by all suppliers and ongoing 

monitoring and audits

• 

Internal audit investigations and ongoing compliance monitoring 
accross TTI

•  Engagement against corruption by participating in an anti-fraud 

association (Enterprise Anti-Fraud Alliance in China)

Environmental, Social and Governance Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Material Issues and Stakeholder Engagement
We understand the importance of continuously engaging our 
stakeholders to improve our sustainability initiatives. We maintain 
regular communication with regulatory authorities, business partners, 
customers, suppliers, employees, shareholders and investors.  
This communication is essential for our awareness of evolving 
requirements and expectations, and for the regular updating of our 
Sustainability Strategy.

TTI continually monitors environmental, social and regulatory trends 
and identifies areas of its business operations where actions can be 
taken to better align our environmental and social initiatives with our 
sustainability goals.

TTI’s ESG Working Committee has identified a number of material 
issues, which we believe can be addressed at a global level as part  
of our implementation and strategy to work toward our sustainability 
goals. We have identified, employees, customers and suppliers and 
investors as our key stakeholder groups.

The table below presents our key stakeholders, their priority concerns and areas of interest, and the main ways that we engage with them.

Stakeholder Groups 

Key Concerns/Areas of Interest 

Engagement Channels 

Employees

•  Working terms, conditions and benefits

•  Compliance hotline

•  Equal opportunities

•  TTI Group Intranet

•  Health, safety and wellness

•  Learn TTI (e-learning platform)

•  Training and development

•  Face-to-face trainings

•  Governance

•  Engagement with NGOs

•  Community engagement

•  Social media

Customers 

•  Social and environmental responsibility

•  Acknowledge customers’ policies and codes

•  Modern slavery

•  Conflict minerals

•  Packaging

•  Battery recycling

•  Quality of products, including safety  

and environmental impact

•  Conduct audits and corrective action plans in accordance with 
their requirements and communicate regularly on progress

•  Complete declarations for conflict minerals and conduct  

due diligence

•  Focus groups at product development stage

Suppliers

•  Governance

•  Anti-corruption

•  Compliance hotline 

•  Online compliance platform

•  Social and environmental responsibility

•  Supplier conferences

Investors

•  Greenhouse gas footprint and climate 

•  Host meetings to understand their ESG expectations

change strategy

•  Supply chain management 

•  Conflict minerals and cobalt

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

81

 
Sustainability Governance

Governance Structure
Good governance provides clear direction and assigns roles, 
responsibilities and accountability to individuals within the company. 
Good governance creates a foundation from which the company  
can make progress toward our targets and build stakeholder 
confidence in our performance.

In 2018, TTI held an ESG Working Committee summit with all 
members who represent our business units in each region. The role 
of the committee is to enhance the ESG performance of TTI by setting 
policies, goals, targets and reviewing key performance Indicators 
(KPIs) for implementation. Going forward, the committee will continue 
to review and lead our Sustainability Strategy and monitor our 
performance against our goals and targets.

Governance Structure

Board

3 Executive Directors 

ESG Working Committee

(13 committee members)

Enhanced governance structure  
for sustainability

Adopted new Sustainability Strategy 
with goals, KPIs and targets 

Monitor compliance across all the 
business units on a biannual basis

Zero reported cases of corruption 
within TTI Group

82

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Environmental, Social and Governance ReportSustainability Performance
Another key milestone of 2018 was the development of goals, KPIs 
and targets set according to the newly adopted Sustainability Strategy. 
Based on the medium- and long-term strategies developed by the 

ESG Working Committee, each business unit developed its own 
implementation plan and KPIs based upon local needs.  
Performance will be reviewed on an annual basis and measured 
against the KPIs that are set at the beginning of each financial year.

Focus Areas

Key Goals

Governance

Zero cases of corruption among TTI Group and its business partner

Environment

1.  Reduction in GHG emissions

2.  Reduction in energy consumption and adoption of renewable energy

3.  Increase the volume of battery collection and recycling

4.  Require suppliers to collect environmental data

5.  Reduction in GHG emissions in the supply chain

6.  Reduction in water consumption at TTI’s operations and in the supply chain

7.  Reduction in packaging material at TTI’s operations and in the supply chain

Social

1.  Zero incidents of non-compliance with TTI’s Policies and Codes with transparency in  

reporting and remediation when necessary

2.  Respectful, healthy and safe workplaces

3.  Zero fatal accidents in our workplace

4.  Promote diversity in the workplace

5.  Continuous training and development 

Supply Chain 
Management

1.  Effective partnerships with non-governmental organizations (“NGO”) in major countries  

of operations and supply chain countries with human rights violation risk

2.  Substantive initiatives to raise awareness and improve human rights conditions and reduce 

environmental impact in the supply chain

3.  Zero incidents of non-compliance with TTI’s Policies and Codes with transparency in reporting  

and remediation when necessary, including incidents of child and forced labor

Communities

1.  Establish strategic partnerships with NGOs 

2.  Develop impact metrics to track our community investment and engagement activities

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

83

Risk Management Process
At TTI, we are vigilant in identifying and managing risk and ensuring 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations in the areas in which 
we do business and monitor compliance across all of our business 
units on a biannual basis. 

TTI implements processes to manage risk and audit performance  
to ensure compliance with all local laws, regulations and standards 
related to corporate governance, business operations and product 
safety, employment, health and safety, and the environment.

Our risk management process includes actions such as:

84

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Environmental, Social and Governance ReportAssurance• Providing independent assurance of the existence and effectiveness of the risk management activities and controls in TTI’s business operations worldwide.Audit Planning• Developing an annual audit plan to identify the highest risks to our business. The plan was developed by the  Audit Committee and TTI senior management and takes into account our risk assessment methodology and  TTI’s unique dynamics. The plan is reviewed on a regular basis throughout the year to ensure that adequate  resources are deployed and any changes in the business are reflected in the plan.Engagement Activities• Conducting various engagement activities, including process, financial and compliance audits. The results, including deficiencies and remediation plans (developed in conjunction with management), are communicated to individuals responsible for taking corrective action, including with TTI senior management and the Audit Committee, as appropriate. The scope and frequency of audits varies, depending on our assessment of operational and financial risks, management considerations, and the audit plan’s capacity and strategy. Risk Management• Assessing TTI’s risk management and internal control systems, formulating an impartial opinion on the systems,  and reporting the findings to the Audit Committee and the senior managers concerned, as well as following up on  the issues to ensure that they are satisfactorily resolved. Communications• Maintaining a regular dialogue with TTI’s external auditor.Our key goal:

Zero cases of corruption among TTI Group 
and its business partners

Anti-corruption and Code of Conduct
TTI upholds the highest standards in anti-corruption and the 
prevention of bribery. We do not, under any circumstances, allow 
corruption or bribery, both internally and with external stakeholders, 
such as suppliers or government officials. 

All TTI members, including employees, officers and directors across 
different business units, are expected to fully adhere to our Code  
of Ethics and Business Conduct, which establishes the rules and 
guidelines for conducting business ethically and in compliance with 
all applicable legal requirements. TTI’s employees are required to 
complete training on the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  
and to acknowledge their understanding of the code requirements.  
In addition, we have a number of related policies and employee 
handbooks, including a Complaint Resolution Policy and Procedure 
and the Business Partner Code of Conduct. We mandate that each 
employee and supplier in the People’s Republic of China executes a 
Declaration of Non-Conflict of Interest. Furthermore, during new hire 
orientation, employees receive face-to-face training on our codes and 
local employee handbooks.

Employees and suppliers are encouraged to actively report non-
compliance actions or activities. They can contact TTI’s Vice 
President, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer directly and 
complaints are then investigated by our internal audit team, the legal 
department or a third party and corrective measures, if appropriate, 
are taken accordingly. Alternatively, they can make use of the 
compliance hotline to report non-compliances, as outlined below.

In 2018, our Internal Audit department launched investigations into 
several supplier service sectors, including security, scrap handling, 
medical, transportation and food. All investigations were addressed 
on a timely basis and the details were reported to both management 
and the Audit Committee. 

TTI Compliance Hotline
TTI’s independent compliance hotline allows anyone, including 
employees, suppliers and customers, to raise concerns about 
potential misconduct, malpractice or irregularities in any matters 
related to TTI. The hotline is operated by an independent third party 
and all complaints, whether made through the hotline or by other 
means, are handled confidentially and anonymously. There were  
17 complaints raised through the hotline in 2018. Sixteen of the 
complaints came from employees and one complaint came from  
a supplier, and all were addressed in a timely and appropriate 
manner. The details were reported to both management and the 
Audit Committee.

Legal Compliance 
Compliance with laws and regulations in all of our markets is 
imperative to the integrity and success of our business.  
We operate in 40 jurisdictions and six regions and all business units 
and partners, and our suppliers, are expected to fully comply with  
local laws and regulations. 

Legal and regulatory requirements related to anti-corruption practices 
that have the potential to have a significant impact to our operations 
and performance include but are not limited to PRC Criminal Law, 
PRC Anti-Unfair Competition Law, US Foreign Corrupt Practices  
Act (FCPA), UK Bribery Act 2010, Hong Kong Prevention of Bribery 
Ordinance and Hong Kong Anti-money Laundering and Counter-
Terrorist Financing Ordinance. For a full list of significant legal and 
regulatory requirements, please refer to Appendix A of our HKEX ESG 
Guide Content Index on our website.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

85

Environment

Overview and Highlights
TTI is a product manufacturer that utilizes a wide range of base 
materials. Responsibly managing our environmental impact is 
therefore a substantive priority, not only in the manufacturing  
process but throughout the life cycle of our products and across  
our value chain. Our goal is to minimize negative environmental 
impact and provide industry leadership through responsible sourcing 
and the innovative use of materials, long-term product planning, 
manufacturing, research and development, attention to how  
people interact with our products, and establishing systems  
for battery recycling.

We are committed to ensuring that our operations and those of our 
suppliers are in compliance with all relevant legal and regulatory 
requirements related to environmental practices that have the 
potential to have a significant impact to our operations and 
performance. These include but are not limited to PRC Environmental 
Protection Law, PRC Atmospheric Pollution Prevention Law, PRC 
Water Pollution Prevention Law, PRC Environmental Noise Pollution 
Prevention Law, PRC Prevention and Control of Environmental 
Pollution by Solid Wastes Law and PRC Prevention and Control of  
Soil Pollution Law. For a full list of significant legal and regulatory 
requirements, please refer to Appendix A of our HKEX ESG Guide 
Content Index on our website.

In this section, we present the environmental performance data of  
all our manufacturing sites, with the exception of our new facilities  
in Vietnam and the Czech Republic, and of other plants and offices 
where identified.

Environmental Management
We adopt industry best practices and constantly look for ways to 
improve on them by enhancing our environmental and hazardous 
substance management system2 and endeavoring to produce 
defect-free products to reduce waste. Our manufacturing sites  
in Asia have a number of policies and procedures relating to the 
environment, including energy and greenhouse gas inventory 
management. We invest in new technology and equipment that 
improve the environmental performance of our facilities, ensuring  
that our operations not only adhere to local laws and regulations  
but also meet the high expectations of our customers. We actively  
set environmental management objectives and targets to better 
measure and improve our performance, and invest in raising the 
awareness and skills of our people.

TTI AIP: Electricity consumption was 
reduced by 18% per USD million of 
production value

TTI HK: 7% reduction in greenhouse 
gas (GHG) intensity per employee

TTI AIP: 22% reduction in GHG 
intensity from 2017 (tonnes of CO2e 
per USD million production value)

TTI Canada reduced air emissions by 
4% by switching to more efficient 
engines for its workforce vehicles

Eliminated all plastic packaging 
bands in our operations

2 

Our manufacturing process is certified to ISO 9001 and QC 080000 for 

quality, health, safety, environment and social responsibility management.

86

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Environmental, Social and Governance ReportOur key goals include:

1.  Reduction in GHG emissions

2.  Reduction in energy consumption and adoption of renewable energy

3.  Increase the volume of battery collection and recycling

4.  Require suppliers to collect environmental data

5.  Reduction in GHG emissions in the supply chain

6.  Reduction in water consumption at TTI’s operations and in the supply chain

7.  Reduction in packaging material at TTI’s operations and in the supply chain

In 2018, we continued to enhance our environmental strategy across the Company with the following priorities:

Preventing pollution

Conserving energy and  
natural resources

CO2

Reducing emissions  
and discharges

Integrating environmental impact 
reduction into our innovation,  
design and development processes

Minimizing waste and increasing 
reuse and recycling through 
global partnerships, including 
with battery recyclers

Leveraging enhanced supply chain 
engagement and accountability 
practices as a way to reduce 
environmental impact

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

87

TTI AIP Electricity and Natural Gas Consumption

Electricity

Natural Gas

Consumption  
(kWh)

US$ million 
production value

Intensity (kWh  
per USD million 
production value) 

Consumption  
(m3)

US$ million 
production value

Intensity (kWh  
per USD million 
production value) 

64,946,273

60,357,750

57,961,443

8%

4%

2,692

2,062

1,759

31%

17%

24,127

29,278

32,943

-18%

-11%

595,410

541,990

527,692

10%

3%

2,692

2,062

1,759

31%

17%

221

263

300

-16%

-12%

TTI AIP (2018)

TTI AIP (2017)

TTI AIP (2016)

Changes in %  
(2018 vs 2017)

Changes in %  
(2017 vs 2016)

Electricity Consumption of TTI Manufacturing, R&D and Assembly 
Plants Globally (excluding TTI AIP, TTI Vietnam Manufacturing TTI 
Czech Republic and Milwaukee Tool – Brookfield)

Electricity Consumption of TTI Sales, Marketing and R&D Offices 
and Headquarters by Region

TTI Zhuhai

DreBo

Empire

Milwaukee Tool

TTI PE

Total

Electricity consumption (kWh)

8,171,580

9,137,262

5,743,800

37,306,619

17,995,938

78,355,199

Asia
(including TTI HK, TTI Macao,  
TTI Taipei, TTI Taichung,  
TTI Thailand, TTI Philippines,  
TTI Korea)

Australia & New Zealand
(including five offices and 
warehouses of TTI ANZ)

Europe
(including France, Iberia,  
Germany, Eastern Europe)

North America
(including TTI FC NA,  
Milwaukee Tool – Brookfield)

Electricity consumption (kWh)

622,122 

5,244,211

946,552

5,179,624

Total

11,992,509

88

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Environmental, Social and Governance ReportData Collection and Audit

Measuring environmental performance data continues to be 
challenging as TTI has many facilities around the world and an 
expanding geographical presence year on year. We continue to 
improve both the collection process and quality of our data and, 
whenever possible, we engage with external parties in the process.

In 2018, TTI AIP audited its environmental performance data as well 
as its ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (EMS), which 
has been audited since 2011. In Germany, TTI GmbH, TTI ELC GmbH, 
TTI Germany GmbH conduct energy assessments every four years, 
applying the EN 16247-1:2012 guideline. The last audit took place  
in 2015 for 2014 energy consumption.

Energy Consumption
Given the critical, global need to reduce GHG emissions and to 
mitigate and adapt to the impact of climate change, TTI is committed 
to consume energy efficiently and to explore and adopt less polluting 
and renewable sources of energy.

Reducing absolute energy consumption at a factory level is 
challenging as our production volumes continue to grow, so we focus 
on improving efficiency. At TTI AIP, our biggest production factory, 
consumption intensity of both electricity and natural gas per million 
USD of production value reduced by 18% and 16%, respectively. 
However, total electricity and natural gas consumption increased 8% 
and 10%, respectively, due to increased production volume. 

Our increased efficiency is due, in large part, to the Continuous 
Improvement Program (CIP). In 2018, a total of eight projects were 
implemented under the CIP, including upgrading water pumping 
systems, installing filter screens in 792 sets of indoor air-conditioning 
(AC) units, shutting down air compressors during lunch time, and 
improving our compressed air supply installation. We reduced  
our electricity consumption by 695,364 kWh (~1% of 2018 
consumption), thereby avoiding 347 tonnes of CO2 equivalent  
GHG emissions and saving a total of US$362,000 in operating costs.

In Canada, new light duty trucks were purchased with a stop/start 
feature installed to reduce fuel consumption while idling. A total of 
emission reduction of 4% was reported. In TTI FC NA, motion sensor 
lighting was installed in all warehouses, restrooms, conference rooms 
and offices.

DreBo has taken steps to reduce its energy consumption, including 
replacing old cooling units and installing new compressors with heat 
recovery systems to supply heating for the facility. A new project to 
capture geothermal energy is underway.

We will continue to review the energy performance of all our facilities 
and to seek opportunities to reduce energy consumption.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

89

Global Manufacturing Footprint

Cookeville (TTI FC NA)
Tennessee, US
•  Floor Care & Appliances 

Greenwood
(Milwaukee Tool)
Mississippi, US
•  Accessories

Anderson (TTI PE) 
South Carolina, US
•  Power Equipment
•  Outdoor Products

Pilsen (TTI Czech Republic) 
Czech Republic
•  Power Equipment

Althausen (Drebo)
Germany
•  Accessories

Jackson
(Milwaukee Tool)
Mississippi, US
•  Accessories

Sun Prairie 
(Imperial Blades) 
Wisconsin, US
•  Accessories

Mukwanago 
(Empire) 
Wisconsin, US
•  Layout & 

Measuring Tools

Ho Chi Minh City
(TTI Vietnam Manufacturing) 
Vietnam
•  Power Equipment
•  Layout & Measuring Tools

Dongguan
(TTI AIP)
China
•  Power Equipment 
•  Outdoor Products
•  Floor Care & Appliances
•  Layout & Measuring Tools

Zhuhai
(TTI Zhuhai)
China
•  Layout & Measuring Tools

Air and GHG Emissions
Minimizing and responsibly managing air emissions is a priority. 
Throughout TTI’s business, air and GHG emissions arise from  
energy consumption for office operations, transportation and  
our manufacturing processes.

Air emissions include carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous 
oxide (N2O), sulphur oxide (SOx) and fine particulate matter (PM) 
emitted from cars, trucks and other small machinery, and from 
combustion processes to generate electricity for manufacturing, 

lighting and building management systems, and heating and cooling. 
Fluorinated gases, such as HCFC-22, R-410a and R-404a are also 
consumed as refrigerants.

In 2018, TTI AIP’s Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions increased by  
12% and 0.5% respectively due to an increase of production value 
by 31%. Due to the CIP effort to reduce energy consumption in  
our operations, emission intensity reduced by 22% from 2017. This 
is the second year of reduction in emission intensity since 2016.

TTI AIP GHG Emission Data 3

Scope 1  
(tonnes of CO2e)

Scope 2  
(tonnes of CO2e)

Total Emissions
(tonnes of CO2e)

USD Million 
Production Value

Intensity (tonnes of 
CO2e per USD million 
production value)

TTI AIP (2018)

TTI AIP (2017)

TTI AIP (2016)

Changes in % (2018 vs 2017)

Changes in % (2017 vs 2016)

7,790

6,968

6,779

12%

3%

54,341

54,075

51,928

0.5%

4%

62,131

61,043

58,707

2%

4%

2,692

2,062

1,759

31%

17%

23

30

33

-22%

-11%

3 

TTI AIP calculated its GHG emissions based on ISO 14064 -1:2006

90

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Environmental, Social and Governance ReportScope 1  TTI AIP direct GHG emissions, include:

Acetylene   
• Welding Machines

Diesel
• Automobiles
• Generators
• Forklifts
• Vans

R410a
• Lathe 

Temperature 
Control Unit

CO2

Natural Gas
• Stoves

Liquified Petrified Gas
• Flame Guns
• Forklifts

R407c
• Refrigeration Dryers
• Air Coolers

HFC-227ea   
• Fire Extinguishers

Fluorinated 
gases

R417a
• Heat Pumps

R134a
• Refrigerators
• Vehicle Air 

Conditioners

• Freezers
• Central Air 

Conditioner Units

R404a
• Refrigerators
• Constant Temperature  
and Humidity Chamber

Diesel
• Automobiles
• Generators
• Forklifts
• Vans

Liquified Petrified Gas
• Flame Guns
• Forklifts

Natural Gas
• Stoves

SF6

Sulfur Hexafluoride
• High voltage switchgear

Carbon Dioxide
• Fire Extinguishers
• Rust Removers

Gasoline
• Outdoor Gardening Tools
• Automobiles

Methane
• Septic Tank
• Sewage Disposal  

Station

Gasoline
• Outdoor Gardening Tools
• Automobiles

CH4

Natural Gas 
• Stoves

Diesel
• Automobiles
• Generators
• Forklifts 
• Vans

Liquified Petrified
• Forklifts
• Flame Guns

N2O

Gasoline
• Outdoor  

Gardening Tools

• Automobiles

Scope 2  TTI AIP indirect GHG emissions arise from purchased 
electricity.

GHG Emissions of TTI Manufacturing and Assembly Plants Globally (excluding TTI AIP, TTI Vietnam Manufacturing, 
TTI Czech Republic and Milwaukee Tool – Brookfield)

Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions (tonnes of CO2e) 

TTI Zhuhai

DreBo

Empire

Milwaukee Tool (excluding Imperial Blades for Scope 1) 

TTI PE

5,868

6,260

3,620

27,967

23,393

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

91

GHG Emissions of TTI HK

GHG Emissions (tonnes of CO2e)

Scope 1

Scope 2

Scope 35

Total

Intensity per employee

TTI HK (2018)

TTI HK (2017)

Changes in %

123

115

+7

194

202

-4

25

29

-14

342

346

-1

0.8

0.9

-7

In our Hong Kong headquarters, the emission intensity per employee 
has reduced by 7% due to the implementation of various energy 
reduction measures, including applying power controls for lighting, 
fan-coil units to be turned off after office hours and maintaining the 
office temperature to an optimal level to minimize energy use.

In France, our vehicles have switched from diesel to gasoline, 
emitting less toxic emissions, like NOx.

The sales, marketing and R&D office of Milwaukee Tool-Brookfield 
recorded a total of 72 and 3,254 tonnes CO2e for Scope 1 and 2 
emissions, respectively, while TTI ANZ generated 2,241 tonnes of 
Scope 2 emissions.

In six of our offices4 in Asia, Scope 2 GHG emissions totaled 139.6 
tonnes of CO2e and Scope 3 emissions totaled six tonnes of CO2e.  
For Canada, Scope 1 emissions totaled 2,838 tonnes of CO2e and 
652 for Scope 3 emissions. 

TTI is working on expanding its disclosure of GHG emissions to 
include other sales and marketing offices in the future.

Water Management
With growing global concerns over water scarcity, consuming  
water efficiently and maximizing its beneficial use are increasingly 
important. Water for all TTI locations is sourced from local 
municipalities, and we have not experienced any issues with  
water sourcing.

Water Consumption of TTI Manufacturing and Assembly Plants 
(excluding TTI Vietnam Manufacturing and TTI Czech Republic  
and Milwaukee Tool – Brookfield)

Water Consumption (m3) 

TTI AIP

TTI Zhuhai

DreBo

Empire

Milwaukee Tool

TTI PE

1,050,000

62,400

2,309

625

2,742

4,410

TTI FC NA facility, we use water in the process of cooling injection 
molding machines and to wash parts in the refurbishing operation. 
Injection molding coolant water is in a closed-loop system so there is 
no discharge. The refurbishing operation uses water mixed with a 
biodegradable cleanser that can be disposed of into the municipal 
sewer system for treatment. 

At TTI AIP, our largest facility, we consumed more than one million m3 
water in 2018. We invested in technology to enable wastewater recycling 
to reduce consumption of fresh water and to reduce wastewater 
discharge to the municipal sewage system. A total of 131,000 m3  
of water was reused at AIP in 2018.

We actively identify opportunities to improve water management.  
At TTI PE, water-efficient fixtures are installed in all new construction 
projects and filtering stations are being installed to encourage the  
use of reusable water bottles over single-use bottles. At our  

All of our operations are in compliance with regulatory requirements 
for water usage and wastewater discharges and we are actively 
improving our management of water consumption and  
wastewater discharges.

4 

5 

Includes sales and marketing offices for TTI Macao, TTI Korea, TTI Taichung, TTI Taipei, TTI Thailand and TTI Philippines. 

Scope 3 GHG emissions include methane generation at landfill due to disposal of paper waste, GHG emissions from electricity used for fresh water processing by  

the Water Supplies Department and GHG emissions from electricity used for sewage processing by the Drainage Services Department.

92

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Environmental, Social and Governance ReportTTI AIP Non-hazardous and Hazardous Waste

Non-hazardous Waste 

Hazardous Waste

Quantities 
 (tonnes)

Intensity  
(tonnes per million USD)

Quantities  
(tonnes)

Intensity  
(tonnes per million USD)

14,900

7,239

8,077

+106

-10

5.5

3.5

4.6

+57.6

-24

122

120

70

+2.0

71

0.045

0.058

0.04

-22

45

TTI AIP 2018

TTI AIP 2017

TTI AIP 2016

Changes in %
(2018 vs 2017)

Changes in %
(2017 vs 2016)

In addition to managing our own water consumption, we also  
ensure that any legacy issues at the sites that we operate at are 
addressed. TTI PE continues to contribute to the Anderson and 
Pickens community by aggressively addressing legacy environmental 
issues created by previous owners of properties. To reduce risk to  
the community, all issues are currently contained and the cleanup  
is well underway. Since 2016, over 1,890 million liters of groundwater 
have been treated.

Operations that generate hazardous waste have scheduled pick-ups 
by licensed haulers for safe disposal. We are working toward a 
method to track the types of waste disposed of by our business  
units. DreBo generated 2,767 tonnes of non-hazardous waste and 
91.6 tonnes of hazardous waste in 2018.

TTI Zhuhai generated 513 tonnes of non-hazardou waste and  
9.63 tonnes of hazardous waste, equivalent to 45.75 tonnes and  
0.86 tonnes per million pieces of product, respectively.

Material Management
As a manufacturer of consumer products, it is our goal to reduce 
material consumption and waste production in our production 
process as well as our product packaging. Where waste production  
is unavoidable, we hire licensed handlers to dispose of our waste.

Waste Management

Our operations at different locations have their own mechanisms for 
handling hazardous and non-hazardous waste, depending on local 
laws and regulations and building management procedures regarding 
the disposal of materials.

The majority of our facilities’ office and building management  
services provide separate bins for recyclables and properly dispose  
of non-hazardous and hazardous waste through local providers. 

In all our facilities, we recycle our waste wherever possible. At TTI 
PE, 1,292 tonnes of metal, 2,213 tonnes of cardboard, 1.5 tonnes 
of e-waste, 0.26 tonnes of lamps and ballasts and 35 tonnes of 
concrete were recycled in 2018.

At TTI FC NA, both hazardous and non-hazardous waste were 
collected by a licensed waste hauler. All hazardous waste is recycled 
and certification is provided to TTI with a record of its arrival to the 
recycling facility. Non-hazardous waste was sent to landfill and a  
total of 198 tonnes was produced in 2018.

In 2018, TTI AIP almost doubled its non-hazardous waste generation 
due to increases in production and in product testing, while hazardous 
waste intensity decreased by 22%.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

93

Battery Recycling Program

TTI is a leader in the design and manufacturing of lithium ion 
batteries, and our batteries are designed to be interchangeable  
within each brand to reduce battery waste. To further reduce battery 
waste, we have partnered with third parties to responsibly recycle  
our batteries and our products with batteries.

For 20 years, we have partnered with Call2Recylce in North America, 
a third-party recycling company, to recycle batteries and products 
containing batteries received at our Factory Service Centers and 
offices responsibly when they reach end of life. Call2Recycle also 
collects batteries directly from TTI’s North American sites. In 2018,  
33 tonnes of batteries were collected at our sites in North America 
while 10 tonnes were collected in 2017.

To make recycling easier for customers, we have a licensing 
arrangement with Call2Recycle that grants TTI the right to apply  
the Call2Recycle battery recycling seals onto our batteries, products 
and packaging. A toll-free number on the seal allows customers to 
locate convenient public collection sites. Customers can also go  
to their website (wwwcall2recycle.org) to find out the locations of  
more than 25,000 collection sites located across North America.

In Australia, TTI started to have batteries collected through our repair 
centers and this has since expanded to service agents in partnership 
with a recycling company. Approximately 0.5 tonnes were collected 
between June to December 2018. 

TTI also signed up to the industry-led voluntary program, Batteries  
4 Planet Ark (B4PA) stewardship scheme in Australia in 2018. The 
scheme helps divert batteries from landfill and uses the resources 
recovered in markets where there is increasing pressure on 
commodity supply. B4PA utilizes an onshore processing capability 
that supports a circular economic model, returning material into 
manufacturing sectors and creating jobs in Australia. 

For production in China, TTI has been partnering with a recycling 
company specializing in battery recycling for several years. In 2018, 
49 tonnes of batteries and cells were collected and recycled from  
TTI’s PRC sites. 

In the future, we aim to implement battery recycling partnerships  
in all of our markets with the goal of increasing the recycling rate of 
batteries and products every year. We are also carrying out research 
on how to increase quantities of recycled materials into our own 
products while maintaining the quality of our tools and equipment.

In Europe, battery recycling is organized according to applicable 
national laws derived from the European Union Battery Directive.  
We have joined common collection schemes in each country that 
involve registering with the local authorities, reporting sales to 
authorities, joining a collection scheme and financing the recovery  
of batteries based on reported sales.

The common collection scheme is acting on behalf of the producers 
who supply containers for battery collection to retail outlets, public 
institutions and commercial end users. The producers organize the 
transport of full containers to the sorting facilities where the batteries 
are sorted according to their various electrochemical systems. The 
batteries are then treated in recycling facilities to recover materials 
such as iron, manganese, nickel and lead. The whole process is 
controlled by the common recycling scheme.

Design Innovation
Great design not only creates products that are easier and more 
pleasurable to use, it also helps TTI reduce our use of natural 
resources and overall impact on the environment. Our investment  
in research and development focuses on innovative product design. 
This is not only for improving the user experience but also for the 
safety of their production and use, resource efficiency, as well as their 
recycling properties to work towards a closed loop, circular economy.

Take cordless tools, our specialty, as an example. Quality cordless 
tools rely on cutting-edge lithium ion battery technology. Our batteries 
are designed to be interchangeable within brands, reducing resource 
consumption and waste. 

94

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Environmental, Social and Governance ReportTTI Product Packaging Data of All Brands

Global 

•  69,928 tonnes

Packaging Materials
Adopting packing and packaging materials with environmentally-
responsible attributes is an opportunity for innovation to reduce  
waste and impact in the sourcing, production and reuse of the 
materials. With millions of products sold each year, improvements in 
packaging also mean reductions in material and transportation costs.

The most common materials used for packaging include paper  
for boxes, cartons and die cut sheets, and plastic for polybags, 
bubble bags, clamshells and tool bags.

We make use of recycled packaging materials whenever possible.  
For our packaging, we use corrugated cardboard, honeycomb  
board, chipboard, paperboard and/or molded pulp, all of which are 
recyclable by the end user. We also use biodegradable packaging 
and paper in packaging products. In Canada, repaired products  
are generally returned to customers in the same packaging that they 
were shipped to us in.

In 2018, TTI AIP did reduce the total cost of packaging, equivalent  
to a reduction of 430 tonnes of paper and 6 tonnes of plastic. This 
saving initiative was part of CIP and amounted to USD 1.4 million saving.

We will continue to adopt packaging materials with positive 
environmental attributes, with a priority on biodegradable packaging.

Biodiversity
As an international manufacturing company, TTI recognizes that  
its operations can have an impact on biodiversity, particularly in the 
sourcing of raw materials, along the supply chain and at product  
end of life. Our goal is to reduce TTI’s impact through supply chain 
engagement and accountability, and responsible battery recycling 
and circular economy solutions. As outlined in our Supply Chain 
Management section below, the TTI Social & Environmental 
Responsibility (SER) Compliance Program adopts a rigorous process 
to ensure our suppliers and the sourcing of raw materials minimize 
environmental impact and comply with all legal requirements.

Environmental Awareness and Action in our Offices 
We encourage all members of TTI to adopt a sustainable lifestyle.  
At our offices, we raise awareness of environmental issues and 
ensure offices adopt measures that minimize environmental impact.

Regular maintenance of air-conditioning, heating, ventilation and 
building management systems is conducted to maintain facilities’ 
energy efficiency and healthy indoor air quality. We provide regular 
communications to members of staff on environmental issues.  
For example, at TTI HK, our “Going Green in the Office” campaign 
provides practical tips and reminders to encourage employees to 
reduce their GHG footprint by conserving energy and adopting 
energy-efficiency measures. Other communications on topics  
such as “Housekeeping Guidelines”, “Red Packet Recycling”  
and “Keep the Office Green During Your Holidays” are also  
sent to employees.

In Canada, a national program was launched allowing all our outside 
sales teams to recycle their printer toners free of charge at partner 
stores across the country. Furthermore, electronic waste is sold to  
a third party, Green Solutions Plus, for recycling with the money 
generated from this transaction donated to the Daily Bread Foodbank.

In 2018, we expanded our operations to Vietnam. We also completed 
the build-out of our Brookfield, Wisconsin office and began the 
design and construction of our new Anderson, South Carolina 
location and the design of TTI NA’s new headquarters in Fort 
Lauderdale, Florida. We not only focused on energy conservation,  
but also encouraged behavioral change to create a more sustainable 
environment. Key areas included:

• 

• 

Installation of LED lighting

Purchase of Energy Star rated equipment 

•  Use of recycled building materials throughout buildings and  

for finishes

• 

• 

• 

Roof design to maintain high R-values with a reduction of 
construction cost

Introduction of campus bicycles and electrical vehicles at 
Anderson, South Carolina

Elimination of plastic water bottles from new buildings and  
the provision of reusable cups to each employee

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

95

Our People

Overview and Highlights
At TTI, we believe our employees are our greatest asset and the 
foundation of our business, as reflected in our core strategic focus  
on Exceptional People. To recruit and retain the best talent, we invest 
heavily in staff training and development, occupational health and 
safety management, and provide competitive remuneration and 
benefits. We believe that respecting diversity and providing equal 
opportunities in our workplaces around the world is also key to  
our success.

TTI employees engaged in 57,963 hours 
of training through Learn TTI

Employee Demographics
TTI operates in 40 jurisdictions worldwide, employing over 23,279 
full-time staff of different backgrounds, skill sets and experience. 
They bring unique ideas and viewpoints that enrich our company.

64% of male staff and 36% of female 
staff took training programs in 2018  
in HK and PRC

Zero work-related facilities reported in 
2018 

All TTI business units established 
annual performance review processes 

Global Full-time Employee Headcount 

23,279 

Total Global Full-time 
Employees

6,803
North America 

 1,763

Europe

 14,131

Asia

22
Latin America & 
Caribbean

35
Middle East

525
Australia & 
New Zealand

96

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Environmental, Social and Governance ReportOur key goals include:

1.  Zero incidents of non-compliance with TTI’s policies and  
codes in reporting and remediation when necessary 

2.  Respectful, healthy and safe workplaces

3.  Zero fatal accidents in our workplace

4.  Promote diversity in the workplace 

5.  Continuous training and development

Global Full-time Employees by Age Group

Global Full-time Employees by Gender

10%
over 50

52%
30-50

38%
under 30

68%

Male

32%

Female

Global Full-time and Part-time Employee Headcount by  
Geographic Region

Full Time

Part Time6

Asia 

Europe 

Australia &  
New Zealand 

Middle East 

14,131

60.7%

1,763

525

7.6%

2.3%

35

0.2%

North America 

6,803

29.2%

Latin America  
& Caribbean 

22

0.1%

Total

23,279

3%

65%

2%

0%

30%

0%

5

102

3

0

47

0

157

6 

Part time data, please note that it includes part time excluding temporary employees globally.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

97

Human and Labor Rights
TTI complies with all applicable international, national, state and  
local employment and human rights laws designed to protect the 
rights of all individuals and does not engage child or forced labor  
in any of its facilities. Relevant legal and regulatory requirements 
related to human and labor rights that have the potential to have  
a significant impact to our operations and performance include  
but are not limited to PRC Labor Law, PRC Labor Contract Law,  
PRC Employment Promotion Law, PRC Interim Regulations on Wage 
Payments, PRC Regulations on Management of Records of Enterprise 
Workers, PRC Social Insurance Law, PRC Regulations on Working 
Hours of Employees, PRC Regulations on Employee’s Paid Annual 
Leave, PRC Protection of Minors Law, Hong Kong Employment 
Ordinance, Hong Kong Mandatory Provident Fund Scheme 
Ordinance, Hong Kong Employees’ Compensation Ordinance,  
Hong Kong Sex Discrimination Ordinance, Hong Kong Disability 
Discrimination Ordinance, Hong Kong Family Status Discrimination 
Ordinance, Hong Kong Race Discrimination Ordinance, Hong Kong 
Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance, Hong Kong Bill of Rights 
Ordinance, Hong Kong Employment of Children Regulations and  
UK Modern Slavery Act (2015). For a full list of significant legal and 
regulatory requirements, please refer to Appendix A of our HKEX ESG 
Guide Content Index on our website.

Employee Handbook and Code of Ethics and Business Conduct

Each TTI business unit has an Employee Handbook written 
specifically for its location that incorporates all relevant and 
applicable employment policies, procedures and best practices,  
as well as national and local regulations. Handbooks are updated 
annually or as required to reflect any changes in requirements. 
Employees are required to read and sign off on the Employee 
Handbook upon their hiring, as well as when changes are made.

All TTI members, including employees, officers and directors  
across different business units, are expected to fully adhere to our 
Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, which establishes rules and 
guidelines for conducting business ethically and in compliance with 
all applicable legal requirements. All of TTI’s new hires are required 
to complete training on the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct 
and, along with existing employees, take the e-learning course on 
Slavery and Human Trafficking. In the Code of Ethics and Business 
Conduct training, we provide real life scenarios of harassment, and 
human and labor rights violations for employees to be able to better 
identify issues and report them accordingly. We require our suppliers 
to comply with our Business Partner Code of Conduct and our Policy 
against Slavery and Human Trafficking.

We adhere to local regulations on age requirements for working,  
with measures to ensure that only workers who are at or above the 
legal age limit are hired and that working hours are in compliance 
with legal requirements. Globally, we require workers to provide 
government-issued identification confirming that they are legally 
permitted to work in the relevant country of operation.

In the US, employees must complete a formal employee application 
for employment. For workers under the age of 18 7, we follow local 
guidelines that limit the number of hours allowed and hours of 
employment. Those hours must be approved by the employee’s 
parent or legal guardian.

In the PRC, we have additional mandated policies regarding child 
labor, juvenile workers and forced labor. Our PRC facilities never  
hire any person under the age of 16 and only hire juvenile workers 
between the ages of 16 and 18 during peak seasons. TTI requires 
our PRC locations to adhere to the Juvenile Worker Protection Policy 
and register the juvenile worker with the local labor bureau. In 
addition to following TTI policies, our PRC locations have instituted 
several preventative actions during hiring, including having Human 
Resources personnel first check the identification cards (with date  
of birth information) of each candidate via a system linked with public 
security agencies and then upon hiring, registering the names of all 
juvenile workers with the local labor bureau.

Equal Employment Opportunities
TTI is committed to promoting and maintaining working environments 
that respect the personal rights and dignity of our employees. We 
provide equal employment opportunities for all qualified persons, 
without regard to race, national origin, gender or gender identity, 
sexual orientation, pregnancy, age, religion, military service, status  
as an individual with a disability or status as a veteran or any other 
status protected by applicable local, state or national law. We believe 
that all individuals should be treated with dignity and respect.

As noted above, all TTI members, including employees, officers and 
directors across different business units, are expected to fully adhere 
to and receive training on our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, 
which includes our commitment to equal opportunity practices.

Our Harassment Prevention, Anti-Discrimination and Anti-Retaliation 
Policy provides the overall philosophy and specific approaches for 
addressing these issues and all employees are required to take the 
eLearning course entitled, Preventing Harassment and Violence in 
the Workforce.

7 

In the US, workers may be aged 14 or above. However, TTI does not employ any young workers below the age of 16.

98

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Environmental, Social and Governance ReportIn the US, TTI’s Equal Employment Opportunity (“EEO”) Policy, as 
well as its affirmative action obligations, have the full and complete 
support of business unit presidents and TTI’s CEO. Through the  
EEO Policy and affirmative action obligations, our business units 
encourage initiatives and personal leadership by all employees  
as the best means to ensure the success of the program. TTI FC NA 
develops, on an annual basis, affirmative action plans and programs 
that ensure the full and complete expression of the EEO Policy.  
By respecting differences, embracing similarities and understanding 
their impact, we create an environment in which all employees are 
welcomed, encouraged to participate fully, and accorded respect.

To promote a healthy work-life balance, TTI ANZ, TTI France, TTI  
UK and TTI NA offer flexible working arrangements upon the request 
from employees. Similarly at TTI AIP, we offer flexible working hours 
for staff members.

Milwaukee Tool and TTI PE have gyms onsite and all employees  
have full access to the equipment and classes offered. TTI FC NA 
and TTI NA both have gym facilities in their buildings, which allow 
access to all tenants of the building. Some other business units also 
provide stipend to employees for gym membership where there is  
no onsite gym.

Diversity and inclusion is important to TTI. TTI PE’s Senior Recruiting 
Manager actively targets female-focused corporate groups, such  
as those on LinkedIn, for job recruitment purposes. The Senior 
Recruiting Manager also attends targeted career fairs, such as 
Clemson’s Women in Engineering.

To build a supportive workplace culture, we have set up a “Wellbeing 
Room” at TTI HK, furnished with electrical outlets for connecting 
pump attachments and a refrigerator for storing expressed breast 
milk. This supports our female employees who continue to  
breastfeed after returning to work from maternity leave.

Benefits and Work Environment
Our commitment to employees also includes providing fair and 
equitable benefits to all qualified persons. In addition to the legally 
required or standard benefits each full-time employee is eligible  
to receive, TTI continually looks to offer competitive and relevant 
benefits to our employees. 

At TTI HK, we also launched the weekly Green Monday program  
to encourage our employees to eat healthier vegetarian meals.  
By cutting down on meat consumption, our employees also reduce 
their GHG footprint.

In Germany, DreBo offers ten beneficial initiatives to its employees, including:

1 JOB  SAFETY

safe and secure employment

TEAM
creative team-building-type activities

MODERNITY
clean, state-of-the-art workplace

HEALTH
healthy food in cafeterias as well as fitness programs,  
a company doctor, and onsite e-bike leasing

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

DEVELOPMENT
regular employee appraisals and advancement 
opportunities

CARE
assistance during employee relocations, including 
support for the entire family

PROVISION
support in planning and managing old-age provisions

PRODUCT
free rental of hammer drills, chisels and drills

BALANCE
flexible shift schedules to create a healthy work-life 
balance

10

MOBILITY
company car for certain employees, leasing of e-bikes, 
and train ticket subsidies to improve team mobility

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

99

While all entry level positions have a standard starting salary,  
TTI Canada has a highly successful Promote from Within Policy  
for senior management positions that has resulted in many 
employees advancing their career within TTI.

making. Any injuries that arise are recorded and if they lead to  
an absence from work of more than three days, they will be reported 
to the TTI’s liability insurance association. DreBo tracks  
the following information:

Occupational Health and Safety
TTI is committed to providing employees with safe working 
conditions. Our goal is to have zero fatal workplace accidents.  
We are proud to report that we did not have any work-related  
fatalities in 2018 at any of our locations around the world.

We remain focused on continually enhancing occupational health 
and safety (OHS) training and actively tracking our OHS performance 
metrics. Any safety issues or violations of regulatory requirements  
are addressed promptly to prevent risk of injury.

Measures have been taken to identify, eliminate and reduce hazards 
wherever possible through the implementation of management 
systems to meet and comply with our Environmental Health & Safety 
(EHS) and Occupational Hazard Management Policies, as well as 
other internal policies and local regulations. Relevant health and 
safety legal and regulatory requirements that have the potential to 
have a significant impact to our operations and performance include 
but are not limited to PRC Work Safety Law, PRC Prevention and 
Control of Occupational Diseases Law, PRC Regulations on the  
Work Safety of Guangdong Province, PRC Mental Health Law, Hong 
Kong Occupational Health and Safety Ordinance and Hong Kong 
Occupational Health and Safety Regulation. For a full list of significant 
legal and regulatory requirements, please refer to Appendix A of our 
HKEX ESG Guide Content Index on our website. 

We implement proactive initiatives to make safety a top priority 
throughout TTI’s business. Examples of measures we have taken  
are presented below.

Asia

At our manufacturing operations in the PRC, our Occupational 
Hazard Management Procedure, which is in accordance with Law  
of Occupational Disease Prevention and Control of the PRC, is in 
place to control occupational risk within the working environment, 
prevent occupational disease and standardize personal protective 
equipment. The policy is enforced through the Quality System 
Assurance & Environment Health and Safety Department.

Europe

At DreBo, we set up an Occupational Safety Committee with 
representation from management, foremen and employees, and  
a Work Council that is involved in all employee-related decision 

100

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

•  Number of accidents per year

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Average absence per accident

Accidents taking place in regular time or overtime

Accidents per shift (three-shift model)

Top three types of accidents per department

Cost of accidents per year

In the U.K., a Health and Safety Committee, comprising the Office 
Manager, Director of Finance and Operations, Training & Application 
Manager, Management Support Assistant, Credit Control Manager 
and HR Manager, is in place to oversee health and safety issues 
within the business unit. All individuals are self-nominated to  
the committee.

North America

We employ comprehensive safe work practices in all of our facilities. 
OHS policies and standards apply to all employees, including full 
time, contract and part-time employees, and are subject to regular 
review to ensure that safety standards are maintained across our 
diverse workforce. Health and safety meetings are held regularly 
where employees can raise concerns regarding health and safety 
issues at work. This is in addition to being able to raise any issues  
to their manager or human resources representative.

TTI PE strives to provide a workplace free from injury and illness  
and is fully committed to achieving the highest standards of health 
and safety, not only for employees, but also for visitors, contractors 
and any other relevant party. Provincial Health & Safety booklets,  
Fire Safety procedures, as well as minutes of each Joint Health and 
Safety Committee meeting, are on display in all workplaces. Provincial 
Health and Safety Ministry officials also make periodic visits to  
our sites to ensure we are in compliance with legal requirements.

TTI Canada operates in compliance with The Workplace Hazardous 
Materials Information System (WHMIS), Canada’s national hazard 
communication standard. We also have a Joint Health and Safety 
Committee (JHSC) with a certified member from both management 
and employee groups, in accordance to the Occupational Health and 
Safety Act. The JHSC meets quarterly to review and address health 
and safety concerns from head office, service centers or the field. 
Input from all employees is encouraged to ensure best practices.

Environmental, Social and Governance ReportManagers at each site conduct ongoing safety inspections to ensure 
first aid kits, fire extinguishers and defibrillators are in working order 
and well stocked. TTI Canada also offers free first-aid courses to all 
employees. All service centers and head offices have certified first-aid 
responders identified. Annual fire drills are held at each head office 
in cooperation with the landlord and fire department. All new 
employees are to complete the following provincially-mandated 
training upon hiring: Occupational Health and Awareness Ontario, 
AODA - Customer Service and Accessibility Standard, Preventing 
Harassment & Violence in the Canadian Workplace and the TTI  
Code of Ethics and Business Conduct.

Australia and New Zealand

TTI ANZ has Work Health and Safety Committees at all of its work 
locations that meet at least quarterly. The meetings are managed  
by the human resources department and all feedback collected is 
evaluated by the Group HR Manager and Presidents of the business 
unit. Regular toolbox talks take place at the warehouse with an 
emphasis on safety. Regular risk assessments are conducted by 
human resources representatives to ensure compliance with local 
legislation on workplace health and safety.

Training and Development
TTI is committed to provide training and development opportunities 
to all employees at all locations where we operate. Business units 
develop training plans that meet the needs of their employees and 
the business.

To further performance goals and communication between  
managers and reporting employees, TTI’s business units conduct 
annual performance reviews. Nearly all of TTI’s business units report 
that they have established, annual performance review processes  
and nearly 100% of those business units’ employees who reported 
received a performance review.

Learn TTI

Learn TTI is an online training platform that offers a vast array of 
e-training courses for employees, ranging from mandatory courses  
on compliance to training and professional courses for employees  
at different levels of the company. A total of 908 unique courses  
were launched on Learn TTI in 2018. Globally, TTI employees 
engaged in 142,642 courses through Learn TTI, equivalent to  
57,963 training hours.

Our business units also strongly encourage their people to benefit 
from internal and external training opportunities, as outlined  
in the examples below.

TTI Canada

TTI Canada developed a training manual for Sales and Marketing 
teams and managers, including courses such as customer 
relationships, time management, situational leadership and 
leadership development. 

TTI Canada introduced a mentoring program in 2014, allowing 
employees to spend one-on-one time with the leaders of the 
organization. Employees are paired with a tenured individual  
who offers insight into specific career paths and areas of interest.  
A job shadowing program was also in place for employees to work 
beside a colleague in a different role to experience first-hand what 
that role entails. This enables employees to make more informed 
choices when developing their TTI career.

TTI PE

Training and development needs are identified during annual 
Performance Reviews when employees and managers discuss and 
lay out specific individual plans. TTI PE also reviews and updates  
the succession planning annually.

We encourage our employees at TTI PE to broaden their knowledge 
and skills, keep current with changes in their fields, and increase 
their potential by continuing their development. We provide tuition 
reimbursement to employees who pursue a degree that is related  
to their current position or another position within the company.

TTI ANZ

TTI ANZ’s internal Training Management System offers 5,000 courses 
to employees and, in 2018, 3,138 hours of training were completed. 
Additionally, TTI ANZ invests in employee training through LinkedIn 
Learning, compliance training through Learning Seat and the 
Australian Institute of Management. In 2018, TTI ANZ began 
implementing a competency framework to measure capability  
gaps of employees for both their current and future roles using  
the HRSG Competency framework.

TTI AIP

In 2018, TTI AIP’s senior management received an average of  
9.33 hours of training while middle management received an  
average of 8.32. In the PRC, a total of 103,454 hours of training  
was delivered.

TTI UK

At TTI UK, senior and middle management received an average  
of 10 and 20 hours, respectively.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

101

Supply Chain Management

Overview and Highlights
As our suppliers are integral to the quality of our products and  
our overall success, we pay close attention to their ESG practices.  
We engage with our suppliers to ensure that ESG policies are 
respected and that ESG practices are implemented across  
our supply chain. This includes a commitment to security  
and social responsibility, complying with all applicable laws  
and regulations and minimizing environmental impact through  
pollution prevention and resource efficiency.

The TTI Social & Environmental Responsibility (SER) Compliance 
Program focuses on the active management and compliance of all 
TTI suppliers around the globe. If key compliance requirements are 
not respected, suppliers will be required to implement corrective 
actions. If non-compliance issues are not satisfactorily remediated, 
their contracts will be terminated. Key focus areas and compliance 
requirements include labor rights, in particular reinforcing TTI’s 
commitment to no child labor and forced labor, non-discrimination, 
no harassment, health and safety, environmental compliance and 
protection, anti-corruption and ethical raw material sourcing.

These compliance requirements are formulated in codes and policies 
that form part of the engagement terms and agreements with our 
suppliers. All suppliers are required to acknowledge and comply with 
them, in particular the key requirements of our Business Partner 
Code of Conduct.

We work with a large number of suppliers around the world and each 
business division selects and engages with their suppliers directly.  
We encourage our business units to engage with local suppliers as 
much as possible to support the local economy. 

Human and Labor Rights
We uphold high standards for human and labor rights at TTI,  
not only in our own operations but within our supply chain.  
We engage with our suppliers to ensure that they are aware of  
and in compliance with our Business Partner Code of Conduct  
and relevant policies for human and labor rights.

Engaged over 200 suppliers of finished 
goods and raw materials in Supplier 
Conferences and training in the PRC

Online Compliance Platform 
implemented across all business  
units globally for suppliers of  
finished goods and raw materials

Ongoing due diligence on  
conflict minerals

Data collection on cobalt sourcing

102

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Environmental, Social and Governance ReportOur key goals:

1.  Effective partnerships with NGOs in major countries of operations  

and supply chain countries with human rights violation risk

2.  Substantive initiatives to raise awareness and improve human rights 
conditions and reduce environmental impact in the supply chain

3.  Zero incidents of non-compliance with TTI’s Policies and Codes with 
transparency in reporting and remediation when necessary, including 
incidents of child and forced labor

We also understand the potential risk of modern slavery to our 
business and we are committed to ensure that our business is free 
from it. Our Policy Against Slavery and Human Trafficking details  
our policy requirements and the consequences of non-compliance. 
The Policy has been communicated globally to all our employees.  
It is available in English and Chinese and will be available in all other 
languages used in countries where we have presence in 2019.

We have the following policies in place to protect human rights in  
our supply chain:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Complaint Resolution Policy: We encourage our employees and 
business partners to report any concerns related to human rights

Code of Ethics and Business Conduct: The Code clearly states 
the actions and ethical behavior expected of our employees

Business Partner Code of Conduct: The Code sets out TTI’s 
requirements and expectations, and requirement for all 
suppliers to comply with the Code

Conflict Minerals Policy: This policy outlines expectations and 
guidelines for our suppliers in the sourcing of tin, tungsten, 
tantalum and gold (“3TG”) 

Policy Against Slavery and Human Trafficking: This policy details 
TTI’s expectations in relation to human rights and modern slavery

Due Diligence

TTI performs extensive due diligence on all new suppliers and 
regularly reviews and audits its existing suppliers. The due diligence 
process focuses on social and environmental requirements, including 
ethical sourcing.

Our Policy Against Slavery and Human Trafficking outlines the various 
steps taken by the TTI Group to prevent, verify, investigate and audit 
cases of slavery and human trafficking, which include:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Employees formally acknowledge the Employee Code of  
Ethic and Business Conduct 

Suppliers formally acknowledge the Business Partner  
Code of Conduct 

Supplier agreements include anti-human trafficking and  
slavery provisions 

Employees and suppliers acknowledge our Policy Against 
Slavery and Human Trafficking

Conduct of annual Slavery and Human Trafficking  
Risk Assessments

Regular site visits and audits of high-risk operations  
and suppliers

Corrective actions required for any identified non-conformities 
with codes and policies

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

103

Conflict Minerals
In 2010, the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued 
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 
requiring companies to disclose if their products contain tantalum, 
tin, tungsten or gold (3TG) mined from the Democratic Republic of 
Congo or its surrounding countries. TTI has launched its own Conflict 
Minerals Policy which sets out the rules, standards and expectations 
that TTI and its suppliers must abide by to ensure that any 3TG is from 
reputable sources free from conflict or other human rights violations. 
Suppliers are required to fill out a Conflict Minerals Declaration form 
annually, providing information on their suppliers of 3TG, as well as 
acknowledging compliance with the TTI Business Partner Code of 
Conduct. We also require all suppliers to source from a recognised 
conflict-free smelter. In 2018, no high-risk situation was identified.

In 2018, we conducted a review of suppliers using cobalt in products 
sold to TTI and as a result, we will be implementing a procurement 
policy for cobalt in 2019. Similar to the Conflict Minerals Policy, suppliers 
will be required to disclose the source of cobalt used in manufacturing 
products for TTI and to comply with the terms of the policy.

Online Compliance Platform 
TTI engages with its suppliers around the world to improve the 
transparency of our supply chain and the efficiency of our data 
collection process. The online Compliance Platform is implemented 
across our global operations, allowing our business units to request 
supplier information, and enable suppliers to access training 
materials and acknowledge their acceptance of key compliance 
requirements online, including: 

• 

Business Partner Code of Conduct / Anti-corruption Declaration /  
Conflict of Interest Declaration

• 

Product Liability Insurance check

•  Human Trafficking and Modern Slavery Policy and questionnaire

• 

• 

SER questionnaires

Conflict Minerals Policy, and its upcoming addition of cobalt

Based on the information received, TTI allocates a rating to each 
supplier, which forms part of the supplier’s overall KPI and a determinant 
of whether TTI establishes or continues the business relationship.

Supplier Auditing
All of our suppliers undergo SER and quality management system 
audits on a regular basis. The SER audits are conducted by TTI’s  
SER teams or external auditors. New suppliers are also required to 

104

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

complete a screening and audit process before engagement. The 
engagement of suppliers is conditional to them having SER policies 
and practices that are acceptable and in line with our own policies.

Suppliers with an unacceptable rating are given a probation period  
to rectify the issues that have been identified and then they are 
re-evaluated. Suppliers are audited every 12 to 18 months if their 
previous audit result was rated acceptable. More frequent audits  
will be carried out on suppliers with lower ratings. Suppliers are 
terminated if they are found to be non-compliant in areas where  
TTI has a zero-tolerance policy, such as for corruption, child or  
forced labor and harassment. 

Engaging with Suppliers 
TTI’s audit team provides training to suppliers on key compliance 
areas. One of the highlights of our supply chain management  
program is our annual Supplier Conference, which was last held on 
November 9th and 10th, 2018 in the PRC. This two-day event brought 
our suppliers together to share experiences and best practices. More 
than 200 suppliers attended, along with members of TTI’s legal and 
sourcing teams. A two-hour training session on anti-corruption, our 
Business Partner Code of Conduct and social and environmental 
responsibility was delivered. We remain united in our goal to not only 
create great products, but to do so in a responsible and sustainable way.

TTI Compliance Hotline 
To actively encourage our suppliers to support our commitment  
to compliance and improving performance, they have access to  
our third-party operated, TTI Compliance Hotline. In 2018, one 
supplier contacted the hotline, however, the issue was not related  
to non-compliance issues. One minor suggestion was provided for 
improving performance.

Environmental, Social and Governance ReportCustomer Responsibility
With millions of products sold in 2018, customer satisfaction  
and the safety of our products, including those that are designed, 
manufactured, distributed or licensed by TTI, are of the highest 
priority. In 2018, there were no product recalls due to health and 
safety reasons.

Product Safety & Product Recalls

We comply with all applicable laws and regulations for the markets 
where our products are sold. Relevant legal and regulatory 
requirements related to health and safety, advertising and labelling 
and privacy matters relating to our products that have the potential to 
have a significant impact to our operations and performance include 
but are not limited to PRC Regulations of the Certification and 
Accreditation, PRC Administrative Regulations for Compulsory 
Product Certification, US Consumer Protection Safety Act (CPSA), EU 
Machinery Directive, EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), 
Australian Consumer Law and Australian Privacy Act 1988. For a full 
list of significant legal and regulatory requirements, please refer to 
Appendix A of our HKEX ESG Guide Content Index on our website. 
We also meet or exceed all applicable and voluntary industry 
standards and strive to meet reasonable consumer expectations  
for safety.

Our Global Product Safety Director is responsible for overseeing the 
development, implementation and maintenance of a comprehensive 
product safety and consumer product regulatory compliance policy 
and system, and driving the continual improvement of our safety  
and regulatory functions globally. Within our business units, we have 
teams who are responsible for the safety, quality and regulatory 
compliance of our products and Product Safety Committees. All 
products are tested for safety and quality to make sure they comply 
with all applicable requirements and that our customers are 
purchasing the safest and most innovative products on the market. 
Our internal legal departments manage the legal, regulatory and 
safety compliance of our products. Product recalls are referred to our 
legal teams, and together with the safety and regulatory departments, 
they ensure compliance with regulations for managing recalls until 
their safe disposition.

We have a rigorous quality assurance process in place, including 
quality control of incoming materials, in-process quality control,  
and inspection and reliability testing of our outgoing products.

Continuous Improvement

We provide a warranty period for all our products to ensure our 
customers have a satisfactory after-purchase experience. When we 
receive a complaint or after-sale service request, we record all defects 
and the data is analysed and fed back to our design team for product 

improvement. We also proactively seek to understand customers’ 
experiences in using our products. For example, we review customer 
comments on online sales platforms or social media forums to collect 
feedback on products.

Intellectual Property Rights

Our intellectual property is one of TTI’s most valuable assets and  
we have procedures and policies in place for proper use and 
protection from infringement by others. TTI’s intellectual property 
portfolio includes logos, patents, trademarks, copyrights and 
computer software. We encourage and support our employees’ 
inventions, discoveries, ideas, concepts, written material or trade 
secrets and cooperate in the documentation of ownership of such 
intellectual property. As a responsible business, we respect the 
intellectual property rights of others and communicate and train  
our employees to not use patented, trademarked, copyrighted or 
otherwise protected intellectual property without express permission.

Customer Data Protection 

We collect customers’ data through different means and we ensure 
that our customers’ data is protected according to relevant legal 
requirements. In 2018, TTI became compliant under Europe’s General 
Data Protection Regulation. All of our computer systems are protected 
by authorization management processes and monitored by our IT 
department. TTI has in place over ten different security policies.

TTI views cybersecurity as integral to the protection of intellectual 
property, customer information, and the growth of our business.  
We align cybersecurity around four key principles:

• 

• 

• 

• 

Protecting our business from damage to critical relationships

Protecting our aggressive growth strategy

Preventing and reducing risk to our operations

Protecting our brands and reputation

We follow the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
Cybersecurity Framework. This framework, in combination with  
our security principles, provides us with guidelines to implement 
pragmatic policies while spending prudently on security initiatives.

All systems in the company run anti-virus and anti-malware 
programs. We also have local firewall rules, file integrity scanning, 
and network level firewalls in place. We regularly send notices to all 
employees regarding cyber attacks and intrusion methods, such as 
email phishing, and educate employees on what to be wary of and 
behaviors to avoid. For cloud-based services, we ensure that our 
agreements and practices are structured to protect TTl’s and its 
customer’s information.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

105

US$1,290,000 of in-kind donations 
of tools and other items 

Close to 12,000 hours of volunteer 
time donated by TTI globally

Partnered with or supported over 50 
programs run by charities and NGOs

Sponsored the Knowledge of Design 
Week and Business of Design Week  
in Hong Kong

106

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Investing in our Communities
We understand that a healthy business and healthy community go 
hand in hand. TTI has a longstanding commitment to support the 
communities in which we live and work by providing resources, time 
and money to those charities where our efforts are best focused. 
Some of our business units have in place a formal committee, which 
is tasked with the selection of organizations that will allow employees 
to give back to their communities and beyond. Other business units 
sponsor the same charities year-after-year while still evaluating new 
sponsorship opportunities as they arise. 

At the corporate level, we have updated our strategic plan for 
community engagement to focus on key areas most relevant to  
our company and those that will create the biggest impact to our 
business and the communities in which we serve. The focus areas 
include women’s rights and education, modern slavery, poverty,  
clean tech and raw material responsibility. In the future, we will seek 
opportunities to expand our involvement in these important focus 
areas to effect change.

In 2018, we continued our engagement with local communities 
across different business units by donating tools, providing financial 
support and encouraging our employees to volunteer their time and 
energy. Some of our business units allocate a specific number of 
working hours or days for employees to volunteer for their favorite 
charity. Our employees can choose a variety of areas to support, 
ranging from education, home building and child wellness to sports.

In 2018, approximately US$1,290,000 in-kind donations of tools  
and other items and close to 12,000 hours of volunteer time were 
donated by TTI and its employees globally. We also partnered with  
or supported over 50 programs run by charities and NGOs.

Here are a few of our many engagement activities for each of  
our four focus areas in 2018:

t

n

e

Nurtu

Next G

ri

e

n

g

n

e

t

r

h

a

e

t

i

o

n

Our 
Engagement  
Activities 

m u n it y
ngage m
om
C
 E

E

n

v

I

i

r

n

o

i

t
i
a

n

m

ental 

tives

g a gement 
I n d ustry

n

E

Community 

Engagement 

Nurturing 

the Next 

Generation

Environmental 

Industry 

Initiatives

Engagement 

Environmental, Social and Governance Report 
 
 
 
Our key goals include:

1.  Establish strategic partnerships with NGOs 

2.  Develop impact metrics to track our community investment and 

engagement activities

Community Engagement 

Disaster Relief and Rebuilding

Extreme weather struck many parts of the world in 2018. Hong Kong 
was hit by the worst typhoon in history in October 2018, and many 
villages were severely damaged. TTI teamed up with Habitat for 
Humanity on the island of Kat O to assist in the cleanup and to 
rebuild houses destroyed by the typhoon. TTI was also involved  
in over 60 other post-disaster relief and clean-up activities, 
contributing over 2,000 volunteer hours and donating TTI tools  
worth US$150,000.

Canada office engaged with Habitat for Humanity as part of their 
national volunteer event in Alberta and British Columbia. More than 
40 employees across Canada participated in four builds, raising  
a total of US$11,000 in monetary donations and the same amount 
worth of tool donations.

Acts of Kindness

Our Canadian floor care division started a HOOVER Fresh Start 
Campaign. The initiative went into the community and made a 
difference by performing simple acts of kindness. This social media 
campaign encouraged HOOVER fans to participate in and share their 
good deeds. A total of 1,100 acts of kindness were recorded by our 
HOOVER fans. This initiative was also supported by Scott McGillivray, 
HGTV Home Builder Host.

Engagement with Habitat for Humanity 

Supporting Veterans

TTI believes everyone deserves a decent place to live. Habitat for 
Humanity invites enterprises to step outside their offices to help  
raise the walls of new homes for many low-income households.  
In 2018, Milwaukee Tool alone donated more than US$275,000  
in products, helping Habitat affiliates build homes, communities  
and hope for various locations in the US. TTI employees volunteered 
more than 250 hours in the Habitat Executive Build program, which 
is a great way to show their support to the local communities where 
TTI sponsored house building for underprivileged families. Our 

This year we supported the Veterans Outreach of Wisconsin (VOW) 
whose mission is to assist homeless and at-risk veterans gain 
normalcy in life by providing food, clothing, shelter and other basic 
human needs. They provide food on a weekly basis as part of  
a homelessness recovery program. TTI supported the VOW by 
providing a monetary donation to the organization.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

107

Community Engagement (continued)

Nurturing the Next Generation

Team Angel Wolf

STEM Education

In Europe, TTI is a partner of Team Angel Wolf, which helps promote 
the inclusion of disabled persons in sport activities and enables 
disabled and paralyzed children to access the sea. TTI supported 
Team Angel Wolf by purchasing two specialized floating wheelchairs.

Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) 
Education provides students with a cross disciplinary and applied 
approach to acquire knowledge. TTI understands the future is in 
creative and innovative education so, in 2018, we supported several 
STEM programs, FIRST Robotics and Kids Building Wisconsin events 
for middle school students, STEM Forward and the Society of Women 
Engineers. We also worked with Elmbrook Highschool on the 
LAUNCH Innovation Challenge program, providing a US$8,000 
donation and engaging in a mentorship program for students.

A Spirit of Giving

TTI has joined forces with The Home Depot Foundation in several 
fundraising events and completed a variety of community service 
projects throughout the year. TTI also participated in fundraising 
activities in support of cancer research and caregiving, Alzheimer’s 
research and the local blood bank, among others.

In Canada, TTI made monetary donations of US$95,000 and 
employees contributed 1,120 volunteer hours to a wide variety  
of causes and charities across the country, supporting everything 
from children’s sport activities to food banks and the Canadian 
Cancer Society.

108

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Development for secondary school students

To inspire and encourage the next generation in design learning,  
TTI collaborated with the English School Foundation – West Island 
School in Hong Kong to provide practical design technology 
workshops to the BTEC Engineering secondary students. Our staff 
demonstrated the use of creative software and tools such as WACOM 
drawing devices and Photoshop visualization, allowing the participants 
to get a taste of rendering digital 3D designs in class. In Germany,  
TTI donated US$8,600 to various secondary schools in Altshausen 
and their associated research centers, community clubs and sports 
events to support youth development.

Environmental, Social and Governance ReportSocial Mobility for Underprivileged Students 

Tertiary and Vocational Institutions 

We donated over US$10,000 to the Future Stars – Upwardly Mobility 
Scholarship in Hong Kong, which helps children from less privileged 
backgrounds gain social mobility. The program selects children from 
more than 400 schools across Hong Kong, rewarding those who show 
positivity and resilience in the face of adversity.

TTI actively supported the Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology, the Technological and Higher Education Institute of  
Hong Kong (THEi) and the Hong Kong Design Institute (HKDI) in 
creating higher-quality product design and engineering programs. 
Through tool donation, co-organizing innovation lab projects, and 
offering industry guidance and input to both student projects and  
the modernization of design standards and coursework assessments, 
TTI is helping to improve tertiary design education in Hong Kong.

TTI also sponsored the Queensland University of Technology in  
its Year 2 design project for manufacturing and design workshop 
competitions and offered overseas study tour opportunities and  
a lecture series for students in both Queensland University of 
Technology and the University of Auburn.

Internships

Internship programs not only bridge the gap between academic 
education and the industry, they also improve the career-readiness  
of students and enable TTI to identify and attract top talent from 
schools around the world. TTI offers internships to graduates and 
students from Canada, the EU, Hong Kong, Southeast Asia, the UK 
and the US. In particular, we have a well-established, one-year design 
internship program that attracts graduates from schools such as the 
Hong Kong Polytechnic University, SCAD and the University  
of Washington. Interns are given hands-on, in-market design training 
and international postings during the program, enabling them to 
explore the industrial design sector while developing their skills.  
In 2018, TTI engaged with the Asian University for Women, a  
NGO promoting education for women in Asia, to participate in an 
internship program in 2019.

Girls Can Too

This was our third year of participating in the Girls Can Too program, 
which introduces construction skills to female high school students 
from low-income families in Toronto. It is operated by the Toronto 
Region Conservation Authority with the assistance and support of 
key members of the design, construction and related industries, 
including Milwaukee Tool.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

109

Industry Engagement

Environmental Initiatives

TTI not only ‘invents’ new products for our own business growth, but 
we also bear in mind that we ‘co-create’ our products with end-users 
with the aim of improving the quality of lives globally. TTI engaged in 
various industrial design forums and participated in a number of 
trade associations around the world to enhance knowledge sharing 
with the industry and the general public.

We continued to sponsor the Knowledge of Design Week and 
Business of Design Week in Hong Kong, which provide unique 
platforms for designers and intellectuals to exchange ideas, 
innovative design and the latest technology. We were invited to 
participate in and facilitate the industry forum, From Mass Production 
to Scale Customization, hosted by the Design Council of Hong Kong. 
We also joined the Industrial Designers Society of America’s national 
conference and the Red Dot Museum exhibition to share our 
innovation and design ideas internationally.

In TTI HK, Green Fairs were held twice in the Hong Kong office to 
support local organic farmers and fair-trade merchants. Proceeds 
from the fairs were donated to the New Life Psychiatric Rehabilitation 
Association to provide guidance to individuals with mental health 
issues on how to maintain a healthy lifestyle. TTI HK, along with 
family members and their children, participated in a Go Green 
Organic Farm Visit where employees enjoyed a family day out and 
learnt about the rich biodiversity of Hong Kong. 

110

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

Environmental, Social and Governance ReportLegend – Techtronic Industries Business Divisions

Name of Business Division

DreBo Werkzeugfabrik GmbH

Empire Level Manufacturing Corporation

Imperial Blades LLC

Milwaukee Electric Tool Corporation 

Royal Appliance International GmbH 

Techtronic Industries Australia Pty. Limited and  
Techtronic Industries N.Z. Limited 

Techtronic Industries Canada Inc. 

Techtronic Industries Company Ltd. 

TTI (Macao Commercial Offshore) Limited

Techtronic Industries (Dongguan) Co. Ltd.

Techtronic Industries ELC GmbH

Techtronic Industries Floor Care North America 

Techtronic Industries GmbH 

Techtronic Industries Korea Ltd. 

Techtronic Industries Middle East & Africa FZCO 

Techtronic Industries North America Inc. 

Techtronic Industries Power Equipment 

Techtronic Industries (UK) Ltd. 

Techtronic Industries France SAS

Techtronic Industries (Zhuhai) Co. Ltd. 

Techtronic Industries (Taiwan) Co. Ltd.

Techtronic Tools Limited Taiwan Branch 

Techtronic Industries (Thailand) Limited

Abbreviation

Country/Location

DreBo

Empire 

Imperial Blades

Milwaukee Tool 

RAI 

TTI ANZ 

TTI Canada 

TTI HK 

TTI Macao

TTI AIP 

TTI ELC GmbH

TTI FC NA

TTI GmbH 

TTI Korea

TTI MEA 

TTI NA 

TTI PE 

TTI UK

TTI France

TTI Zhuhai

TTI Taichung

TTI Taipei

TTI Thailand

Germany

Wisconsin, U.S.

Wisconsin, U.S.

Wisconsin, U.S.,  
Mississippi, U.S.

Germany

Australia/New Zealand

Canada

Hong Kong

Macao

PRC

Germany

North Carolina, U.S.,  
Ohio, U.S.,  
Tennessee, U.S.

Germany

Korea

United Arab Emirates

Maryland, U.S.,
Florida, U.S. 

South Carolina, U.S.

United Kingdom

France

PRC

Taichung, Taiwan

Taipei, Taiwan

Thailand

Techtronic Industries Vietnam Manufacturing Company Limited

TTI Vietnam Manufacturing

Vietnam

Techtronic Product Development Limited – Philippine Branch Office

TTI Philippines 

Cebu, Philippines 

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018

111

The directors have the pleasure in presenting their annual report  
and the audited financial statements for the year ended  
December 31, 2018.

Principal Activities and Business Review
The Company acts as an investment holding company.

The principal activities of the principal subsidiaries and associate are 
set out in Notes 53 and 54 to the consolidated financial statements, 
respectively.

Further discussion and analysis of these activities as required by 
Schedule 5 to the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622 of 
the Laws of Hong Kong) (the “Company Ordinance”), including a 
fair review of the business and a discussion of the principal risks 
and uncertainties facing the Group, particulars of important events 
affecting the Group that have occurred, and an indication of likely 
future development in the Group’s business, can be found in the 
“Chairman’s Statement”, “Chief Executive Officer’s Message”, 
“Review of Operations”, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis”, 
“Corporate Governance Report”, “Environmental, Social and 
Governance Report” and “Financial Summary” sections of this 
Annual Report. The above sections form part of this report.

Results and Appropriations
The results of the Group for the year ended December 31, 2018 
are set out in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income on page 126.

An interim dividend of HK38.00 cents (approximately US4.89 cents) 
per share amounting to approximately US$89,595,000 was paid to 
the shareholders during the year.

The directors now recommend the payment of a final dividend 
of HK50.00 cents (approximately US6.44 cents) per share to 
the shareholders on the register of members on May 24, 2019, 
amounting to approximately US$117,666,000.

Property, Plant and Equipment
The Group continued to expand its business and during the year 
spent approximately US$7,530,000 on leasehold land and buildings, 
acquired moulds and tooling for approximately US$2,226,000, office 
equipment, furniture and fixtures for approximately US$12,315,000 
and plant and machinery for approximately US$23,110,000. Details 
of these and other movements in the property, plant and equipment 
of the Group and the Company during the year are set out in Note 16 
to the consolidated financial statements.

Share Capital
Details of movements during the year in the share capital of the 
Company are set out in Note 39 to the consolidated financial 
statements.

A total of 8,600,000 ordinary shares were bought back by the 
Company during 2018 at prices ranging from HK$36.25 to HK$47.55 
per share. Among these shares bought back and settled by the 
Company in 2018, 7,100,000 shares were cancelled during 2018 and 
1,500,000 shares were cancelled in January 2019. The aggregate 
amount paid by the Company for such buy-backs cancelled during 
2018 amounting to US$38,608,000 was charged to the retained 
earnings.

112

The shares bought back were cancelled and accordingly the issued 
share capital of the Company was reduced. The buy-backs of the 
Company’s shares during the year were effected by the Directors 
pursuant to the mandate granted by shareholders at the previous 
annual general meeting of the Company, with a view to benefiting 
shareholders as a whole by enhancing the net asset value per share 
and earnings per share of the Company.

Directors
The directors of the Company during the year and up to the date of 
this report were:

Group Executive Directors:
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill, Chairman
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill, Vice Chairman
Mr Joseph Galli Jr, Chief Executive Officer
Mr Kin Wah Chan
Mr Chi Chung Chan

Non-executive Directors:
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung GBS BBS JP
Mr Camille Jojo

Independent Non-executive Directors:
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung
Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse

In accordance with Article 107(A) of the Company’s Articles of 
Association, Messrs. Kin Wah Chan, Camille Jojo, Manfred Kuhlmann 
and Peter David Sullivan will retire at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting. With the exception of Mr Manfred Kuhlmann who will not 
stand for re-election, all other retiring Directors, being eligible, will 
offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting.

No director proposed for re-election at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting has a service contract which is not determinable by 
the Group within one year without payment of compensation, other 
than statutory compensation.

Terms of Office of Non-executive Directors and 
Independent Non-executive Directors
The term of office for each of the Non-executive Directors and 
Independent Non-executive Directors is the period up to his 
retirement by rotation in accordance with Article 107(A) of the 
Company’s Articles of Association.

Directors of Subsidiaries
The names of all directors who have served on the boards of the 
subsidiaries of the Company during the year ended December 31, 
2018 and during the period from January 1, 2019 to the date of this 
Report are available on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com).

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Report of the DirectorsDirectors’ and Chief Executive’s Interests
As at December 31, 2018, the interests and short positions of the 
directors and the chief executive of the Company in the shares, 
underlying shares and debentures of the Company or any of its 
associated corporations (within the meaning of Part XV of the 
Securities and Futures Ordinance (“SFO”)) which have been notified 
to the Company pursuant to Divisions 7 and 8 of Part XV of the SFO 
(including interests and short positions which any such director or 

chief executive was taken or deemed to have under such provisions 
of the SFO) or as recorded in the register required to be kept under 
section 352 of the SFO or otherwise notified to the Company and 
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Stock Exchange”) 
pursuant to the Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors 
of Listed Issuers as set out in Appendix 10 to the Rules Governing the 
Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the 
“Listing Rules”) were as follows:

Interests 
in shares 
(other than 
pursuant 
to equity 
derivatives)(1)

Interests in 
underlying 
shares 
pursuant to 
equity 
derivatives(1)

150,443,500(2)

760,000

216,159,794(3)

5,009,500(4)
34,007,500(5)

553,500
—
—

3,000,000
—

Total interests 
in shares/
underlying 
shares

Approximate 
aggregate 
percentage of 
interests

367,916,794

20.12%

42,017,000

2.30%

Name of directors

Capacity/Nature of interests

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Beneficial owner
Interests of spouse
Interests of controlled corporation

Beneficial owner
Beneficiary of a trust

Beneficial owner

Beneficial owner

Beneficial owner

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung GBS BBS JP

Beneficial owner
Interests of controlled corporation

49,005,948
37,075,030(9)

Mr Camille Jojo

Beneficial owner

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Beneficial owner

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Beneficial owner

Beneficial owner

3,806,000(6)

1,000,000

4,806,000

150,000(7)

450,000(8)

2,000,000

2,150,000

2,000,000

2,450,000

400,000
—

350,000

250,000

175,000

86,480,978

372,000

450,000

450,000

22,000

200,000

275,000

—

1,050,000

1,050,000

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Beneficial owner

4,040,000

250,000

4,290,000

Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse

Beneficial owner

—

235,000

235,000

0.26%

0.12%

0.13%

4.73%

0.02%

0.02%

0.02%

0.06%

0.23%

0.01%

Notes:

(1) 

Interests in shares and underlying shares stated above represent long 
positions of the Company.

The interests of the directors of the Company in the underlying shares 
pursuant to equity derivatives, which were held as beneficial owner, 
represent share options granted to them respectively pursuant to the share 
option schemes adopted by the Company, details of which are separately 
disclosed in the section headed “Share Options” below. These share options 
are physically settled and unlisted.

(2) 

These included Mr Horst Julius Pudwill’s interests in 1,824,000 awarded 
shares, of which 650,000 awarded shares remained unvested under the 
share award schemes of the Company as of December 31, 2018. Details 
of Mr Horst Julius Pudwill’s awarded shares are set out in the Corporate 
Governance Report.

113

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Directors’ and Chief Executive’s Interests (continued)
Notes: (continued)

(3) 

These shares were held by the following companies in which Mr Horst Julius 
Pudwill has a beneficial interest:

Both Scheme D and Scheme E are aimed for recognition of the 
contribution to the development and growth of the Group by the 
eligible persons. The scheme rules of both Scheme D and Scheme E 
are substantially identical and below are the summary of the principal 
terms of both schemes:

Sunning Inc.

Cordless Industries Company Limited*

No. of shares

179,084,764

37,075,030

216,159,794

The Board of Directors of the Company may grant share options to 
the following eligible persons (and their wholly owned companies) of 
the Company, its subsidiaries and any companies in which the Group 
holds any equity interest, to subscribe for shares in the Company:

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 

(8) 

These included Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill’s interests in 150,000 awarded 
shares, of which 50,000 awarded shares remained unvested under the 
share award schemes of the Company as of December 31, 2018. Details 
of Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill’s awarded shares are set out in the Corporate 
Governance Report.

These shares were held by a trust of which Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill is one 
of the beneficiaries.

These included Mr Joseph Galli Jr’s interests in 2,814,000 awarded shares, 
of which 514,000 awarded shares remained unvested under the share award 
schemes of the Company as of December 31, 2018. Details of Mr Joseph 
Galli Jr’s awarded shares are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.

These included Mr Kin Wah Chan’s interests in 150,000 awarded shares, of 
which 50,000 awarded shares remained unvested under the share award 
schemes of the Company as of December 31, 2018. Details of Mr Kin Wah 
Chan’s awarded shares are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.

These included Mr Chi Chung Chan’s interests in 150,000 awarded shares, 
of which 50,000 awarded shares remained unvested under the share award 
schemes of the Company as of December 31, 2018. Details of Mr Chi Chung 
Chan’s awarded shares are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.

(9) 

These shares were held by Cordless Industries Company Limited* in which 
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung GBS BBS JP has a beneficial interest.

* 

Cordless Industries Company Limited is owned as to 70% by 
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill and as to 30% by Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung 
GBS BBS JP.

Save as disclosed above, none of the directors and the chief 
executive of the Company was interested or had any short position in 
any shares, underlying shares or debentures of the Company and its 
associated corporations (within the meaning of Part XV of the SFO) as 
at December 31, 2018.

Share Options
Share Option Schemes
The Company has two share option schemes in place – Scheme D 
and Scheme E. Scheme D was adopted on May 29, 2007 and expired 
on May 28, 2017, though its provisions shall remain in full force and 
effect in all other respects. Following the expiry of Scheme D, Scheme 
E was adopted on May 19, 2017 and will expire on May 18, 2027.

114

(i) 

employees; or

(ii)  Directors; or

(iii)  secondees; or

(iv)  any shareholders of any member of the Group or invested entity 
or controlling shareholders or any holders of any securities 
issued by any member of the Group; or

(v)  business partners; or

(vi)  suppliers; or

(vii)  customers; or

(viii)  advisers of the Group.

Share options granted must be taken up within 21 days of the date 
of grant, upon payment of consideration to be determined by the 
Board for the grant thereof. Share options may be exercised at any 
time, subject to vesting conditions from the date of grant to the tenth 
anniversary thereof. The subscription price is set at the highest of: 
the closing price of the shares on the date of offer of the share option; 
or the average closing price of shares as stated in the daily quotation 
sheets issued by the Stock Exchange for the five trading days 
immediately preceding the date of offer.

The maximum number of shares in respect of which share options 
may be granted under the respective share option scheme is 
not permitted to exceed 30.0% of the issued share capital of the 
Company from time to time or 10.0% of shares in issue as at the 
adoption date of the respective share option scheme. No person shall 
be granted an option which exceeds 1.0% of the shares in issue as at 
the date of offer in any 12-month period up to the date thereof.

Options may be exercised at any time after the first or second 
anniversary of the date of grant of the share option to the tenth 
anniversary of the date of grant. The exercise price is determined by 
the Directors of the Company, and will not be less than the higher of  
(i) the closing price of the Company’s shares on the date of grant; and 
(ii) the average closing price of the shares for the five business days 
immediately preceding the date of grant.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Report of the DirectorsShare Options (continued)
The following tables disclose movements in the Company’s share options during the year:

Share option holders

Directors
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Mr Joseph Galli Jr
Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung GBS BBS JP

Mr Camille Jojo

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse

Total for directors

Employees

Total for employees

Total for all categories

Date of
share options
granted

Share option
scheme
category

Outstanding
at beginning
of the year

Granted
during the
year

Exercised
during the
year

Lapsed
during the
year

Outstanding
at end of
the year

Subscription
price
HK$

Exercise period

20.3.2014
11.9.2015
17.3.2017
21.5.2012
20.3.2014
11.9.2015
17.3.2017
14.3.2018
16.11.2009
20.3.2014
11.9.2015
17.3.2017
14.3.2018
20.3.2014
11.9.2015
17.3.2017
14.3.2018
11.9.2015
17.3.2017
14.3.2018
17.3.2017
14.3.2018
17.3.2017
14.3.2018
11.9.2015
17.3.2017
14.3.2018
16.11.2009
23.5.2011
21.5.2012
11.9.2015
17.3.2017
14.3.2018
17.3.2017
14.3.2018
19.6.2017
14.3.2018

14.1.2008
17.4.2008
16.11.2009
28.12.2009
17.1.2011
23.3.2017
19.6.2017

D
D
D
D
D
D
D
E
D
D
D
D
E
D
D
D
E
D
D
E
D
E
D
E
D
D
E
D
D
D
D
D
E
D
E
E
E

D
D
D
D
D
D
E

230,000
168,000
155,500
1,000,000
1,000,000
250,000
500,000
—
1,000,000
1,000,000
250,000
500,000
—
1,000,000
250,000
500,000
—
150,000
150,000
—
250,000
—
150,000
—
25,000
150,000
—
200,000
200,000
250,000
150,000
150,000
—
150,000
—
135,000
—

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
250,000
—
—
—
—
250,000
—
—
—
250,000
—
—
100,000
—
100,000
—
100,000
—
—
100,000
—
—
—
—
—
100,000
—
100,000
—
100,000

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
(25,000)
(75,000)
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

230,000
168,000
155,500
1,000,000
1,000,000
250,000
500,000
250,000
1,000,000
1,000,000
250,000
500,000
250,000
1,000,000
250,000
500,000
250,000
150,000
150,000
100,000
250,000
100,000
150,000
100,000
—
75,000
100,000
200,000
200,000
250,000
150,000
150,000
100,000
150,000
100,000
135,000
100,000

9,913,500

1,450,000

(100,000)

— 11,263,500

25,000
200,000
600,000
30,000
20,000
200,000
350,000

1,425,000

—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—
(200,000)
(300,000)
—
—
—
—

(25,000)
—
—
—
—
—
—

—
—
300,000
30,000
20,000
200,000
350,000

(500,000)

(25,000)

900,000

11,338,500

1,450,000

(600,000)

(25,000)

12,163,500

20.3.2015    –   19.3.2024
21.600
11.9.2016    –   10.9.2025
29.650
17.3.2018    –   16.3.2027
32.100
21.5.2013    –   20.5.2022
8.742
20.3.2015    –   19.3.2024
21.600
11.9.2016    –   10.9.2025
29.650
17.3.2018    –   16.3.2027
32.100
14.3.2019    –   13.3.2028
47.900
6.770   16.11.2010    –  15.11.2019
20.3.2015    –   19.3.2024
21.600
11.9.2016    –   10.9.2025
29.650
17.3.2018    –   16.3.2027
32.100
14.3.2019    –   13.3.2028
47.900
20.3.2015    –   19.3.2024
21.600
11.9.2016    –   10.9.2025
29.650
17.3.2018    –   16.3.2027
32.100
14.3.2019    –   13.3.2028
47.900
11.9.2016    –   10.9.2025
29.650
17.3.2018    –   16.3.2027
32.100
14.3.2019    –   13.3.2028
47.900
17.3.2018    –   16.3.2027
32.100
14.3.2019    –   13.3.2028
47.900
17.3.2018    –   16.3.2027
32.100
14.3.2019    –   13.3.2028
47.900
11.9.2016    –   10.9.2025
29.650
17.3.2018    –   16.3.2027
32.100
47.900
14.3.2019    –   13.3.2028
  16.11.2010    –  15.11.2019
6.770
23.5.2012    –   22.5.2021
9.872
21.5.2013    –   20.5.2022
8.742
11.9.2016    –   10.9.2025
29.650
17.3.2018    –   16.3.2027
32.100
14.3.2019    –   13.3.2028
47.900
17.3.2018    –   16.3.2027
32.100
14.3.2019    –   13.3.2028
47.900
19.6.2018    –   18.6.2027
36.300
47.900
14.3.2019    –   13.3.2028

7.566
7.780
6.770
6.390
10.436
32.150
36.300

14.1.2009    –   13.1.2018
17.4.2009    –   16.4.2018
  16.11.2010    –  15.11.2019
  28.12.2010    –  27.12.2019
17.1.2012    –   16.1.2021
23.3.2018    –   22.3.2027
19.6.2018    –   18.6.2027

115

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share Options (continued)
The weighted average closing price of the Company’s shares 
immediately before the various dates on which the share options were 
granted during 2018 was HK$48.50 (2017: HK$32.42).

The closing price of the Company’s shares immediately before the 
various dates on which the share options were granted was HK$48.50 
in 2018 (2017: HK$31.80 to HK$36.00).

Director’s Interests in Transactions, 
Arrangements and Contracts of Significance
No transactions, arrangements and contracts of significance, to which 
the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, was a party and in which 
a director or a connected entity of a director of the Company had a 
material interest, whether directly or indirectly, subsisted at the end of 
the year or at any time during the year.

The weighted average closing prices of the Company’s shares 
immediately before various dates during 2018 and 2017 on which 
the share options were exercised were HK$46.63 and HK$38.21 
respectively.

The fair values of the share options granted in 2018 measured at 
various dates on which the share options were granted was HK$11.82 
(2017:  HK$7.98 to HK$8.68). The weighted average fair value of the 
share options granted in 2018 was HK$11.82 (2017: HK$8.11) per 
option.

Directors’ Indemnities
Pursuant to the Company’s Articles of Association, every director of 
the Company shall be entitled to be indemnified out of the assets 
and profits of the Company against all losses or liabilities (to the 
fullest extent permitted by the Companies Ordinance) which he/she 
may sustain or incur in or about the execution of the duties of his/
her office. The Company has arranged appropriate directors’ and 
officers’ liability insurance coverage for the directors and officers of 
the Company.

Arrangements to Purchase Shares or Debentures
Other than as disclosed above and for satisfying the awarded shares 
granted under the Company’s share award schemes (details of which 
are set out in this Annual Report), at no time during the year was the 
Company, or any of its subsidiaries, a party to any arrangements to 
enable the directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of 
the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any 
other body corporate and neither the directors or the chief executive, 
nor any of their spouses or children under the age of 18, had any 
right to subscribe for the securities of the Company, or had exercised 
any such right.

Management Contracts
No contracts concerning the management and administration of 
the whole or any substantial part of the business of the Group were 
entered into or existed during the year.

Equity-linked Agreements
During the year, the Group has not entered into any equity-linked 
agreements.

116

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Report of the DirectorsSubstantial Shareholders’ Interests
As at December 31, 2018, the interests and short positions of the following persons, other than directors and chief executive of the Company, in 
the shares, underlying shares and debentures of the Company which have been disclosed to the Company pursuant to Divisions 2 and 3 of Part 
XV of the SFO have been recorded in the register kept by the Company pursuant to section 336 of the SFO:

Name

Total interests in shares

(L/S/LP)*

Approximate aggregate 
percentage of interests

Artisan Partners Asset Management Inc.(1)

JPMorgan Chase & Co.(2)

Schroders Plc(3)

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation(4)

94,073,945

109,685,632

452,346

(L)

(L)

(S)

65,505,351

(LP)

110,259,415

101,076,883

30,842,830

(L)

(L)

(S)

67,843,748

(LP)

5.14%

6.00%

0.02%

3.58%

6.03%

5.53%

1.69%

3.71%

* 

(L/S/LP) represents (Long position/Short position/Lending pool)

Notes:

(1) 

The following is a breakdown of the interest in shares in the Company held by Artisan Partners Asset Management Inc.:

Name

Artisan Partners Asset Management Inc.

Artisan Partners Holdings LP

Artisan Investments GP LLC

Artisan Partners Limited Partnership

Remarks:

Total interests in shares

Remarks

Direct 
interests

(L/S/LP)*

Deemed 
interests

(L/S/LP)*

(1a)

(1b)

(1b)

(1b)

—

—

—

94,073,945

—

—

—

(L)

94,073,945

94,073,945

94,073,945

—

(L)

(L)

(L)

—

Approximate 
percentage of 
interests

5.14%

5.14%

5.14%

5.14%

(1a) 

Artisan Partners Asset Management Inc. is listed on The New York Stock Exchange. The capacity of Artisan Partners Asset Management Inc. in holding the 

94,073,945 shares of long position was as controlled corporation.

(1b)  Artisan Partners Holdings LP, Artisan Investments GP LLC and Artisan Partners Limited Partnership were all directly or indirectly owned by Artisan Partners 

Asset Management Inc. and by virtue of the SFO, Artisan Partners Asset Management Inc. was deemed to be interested in the shares held by these subsidiaries.

117

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Substantial Shareholders’ Interests (continued)
Notes: (continued)

(2) 

The following is a breakdown of the interests in shares in the Company held by JPMorgan Chase & Co.:

Total interests in shares

Direct 
interests

(L/S/LP)*

Deemed 
interests

(L/S/LP)*

Approximate 
percentage of 
interests

—

—

—

—

—

—

(L)

(S)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(S)

—

—

—

—

—

109,685,632

452,346

65,505,351

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

2,698,039

358,846

31,550

2,698,039

358,846

(L)

(S)

(LP)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(L)

(S)

(L)

(L)

(S)

6.00%

0.02%

3.58%

0.07%

0.01%

0.51%

0.07%

0.04%

1.33%

0.00%

0.07%

0.00%

0.15%

0.02%

0.00%

0.15%

0.02%

Name

JPMorgan Chase & Co.

Remarks

(2a)

J.P. Morgan Securities LLC

(2b)

1,231,565

JF Asset Management Limited

JPMorgan Asset Management (Japan) Limited

JPMorgan Asset Management (Taiwan) Limited

J.P. Morgan Investment Management Inc.

J.P. Morgan Trust Company of Delaware

J.P. Morgan Whitefriars LLC

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.

J.P. Morgan Equity Holdings, Inc.

J.P. Morgan International Finance Limited

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

93,500

9,352,000

1,242,700

668,000

24,249,000

31,550

1,359,618

73,346

—

—

—

—

—

118

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Report of the DirectorsSubstantial Shareholders’ Interests (continued)
Notes: (continued)

(2) 

The following is a breakdown of the interests in shares in the Company held by JPMorgan Chase & Co.: (continued)

Name

Total interests in shares

Remarks

Direct 
interests

(L/S/LP)*

Deemed 
interests

(L/S/LP)*

Approximate 
percentage of 
interests

J.P. Morgan Securities plc

(2b)

1,338,421

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.

JPMorgan Asset Management (UK) Limited

J.P. Morgan Broker-Dealer Holdings Inc

J.P. Morgan Capital Holdings Limited

JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc

JPMorgan Asset Management (Asia) Inc.

JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings (UK) Limited

JPMorgan Chase Holdings LLC

J.P. Morgan Overseas Capital LLC

JPMorgan Asset Management International Limited

Remarks:

285,500

67,452,706

2,760,072

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(L)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

1,231,565

93,500

1,338,421

285,500

47,623,772

11,262,700

2,760,072

48,886,887

93,500

1,359,618

73,346

2,760,072

—

—

—

—

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

(L)

0.07%

0.02%

3.69%

0.15%

0.07%

0.01%

0.07%

0.02%

2.60%

0.62%

0.15%

2.67%

0.01%

0.07%

0.00%

0.15%

(2a) 

JPMorgan Chase & Co. is listed on New York Stock Exchange. The capacity of JPMorgan Chase & Co. in holding the 109,685,632 shares of long position, 

452,346 shares of short position and 65,505,351 shares of lending pool respectively was as controlled corporation.

(2b) 

J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, JF Asset Management Limited, JPMorgan Asset Management (Japan) Limited, JPMorgan Asset Management (Taiwan) Limited, J.P. 

Morgan Investment Management Inc., J.P. Morgan Trust Company of Delaware, J.P. Morgan Whitefriars LLC, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., J.P. Morgan Equity 

Holdings, Inc., J.P. Morgan International Finance Limited, J.P. Morgan Securities plc, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., JPMorgan Asset Management (UK) Limited, 

J.P. Morgan Broker-Dealer Holdings Inc, J.P. Morgan Capital Holdings Limited, JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc, JPMorgan Asset Management 

(Asia) Inc., JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings (UK) Limited, JPMorgan Chase Holdings LLC, J.P. Morgan Overseas Capital LLC and JPMorgan Asset 

Management International Limited were all directly or indirectly owned by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and by virtue of the SFO, JPMorgan Chase & Co. was deemed 

to be interested in the shares held by these subsidiaries.

119

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Substantial Shareholders’ Interests (continued)
Notes: (continued)

(3) 

The following is a breakdown of the interests in shares in the Company held by Schroders Plc:

Name

Schroders Plc

Schroder Administration Limited

Schroder International Holdings Limited

Schroder Investment Management (Hong Kong) Limited

Schroder Investment Management (Singapore) Limited

Schroder Investment Management Limited

Schroder Investment Management North America Limited

Schroder Wealth Holdings Limited

Schroder & Co Bank AG

Schroder & Co. Limited

Schroder & Co (Asia) Limited

Remarks:

Total interests in shares

Remarks

Direct 
interests

(L/S/LP)*

Deemed 
interests

(L/S/LP)*

Approximate 
percentage of 
interests

(3a)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

—

—

—

29,505,000

65,485,500

6,740,000

—

7,512,228

—

188,980

—

827,707

—

—

—

(L)

(L)

(L)

—

(L)

—

(L)

—

(L)

110,259,415

110,259,415

109,242,728

—

—

—

7,512,228

—

1,016,687

—

827,707

—

(L)

(L)

(L)

—

—

—

(L)

—

(L)

—

(L)

—

6.03%

6.03%

5.97%

1.61%

3.58%

0.37%

0.41%

0.41%

0.06%

0.01%

0.05%

0.05%

(3a) 

Schroders Plc is listed on London Stock Exchange. The capacity of Schroders Plc in holding the 110,259,415 shares of long position was as investment 

manager.

(3b) 

Schroder Administration Limited, Schroder International Holdings Limited, Schroder Investment Management (Hong Kong) Limited, Schroder Investment 

Management (Singapore) Limited, Schroder Investment Management Limited, Schroder Investment Management North America Limited, Schroder Wealth 

Holdings Limited, Schroder & Co Bank AG, Schroder & Co. Limited and Schroder & Co (Asia) Limited were all directly or indirectly owned by Schroders Plc and 

by virtue of the SFO, Schroders Plc was deemed to be interested in the shares held by these subsidiaries.

120

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Report of the DirectorsSubstantial Shareholders’ Interests (continued)
Notes: (continued)

(4) 

The following is a breakdown of the interest in shares in the Company held by The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation:

Name

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation

Remarks

(4a)

The Bank of New York Mellon

Remarks:

(4b)

101,076,883

30,842,830

Total interests in shares

Direct 
interests

(L/S/LP)*

Deemed 
interests

(L/S/LP)*

Approximate 
percentage of 
interests

—

—

—

—

—

—

(L)

(S)

101,076,883

30,842,830

67,843,748

—

—

(L)

(S)

(LP)

—

—

5.53%

1.69%

3.71%

5.53%

1.69%

(4a) 

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation is listed on New York Stock Exchange. The capacity of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation in holding the 

101,076,883 shares of long position, 30,842,830 shares of short position and 67,843,748 shares of lending pool respectively was as controlled corporation.

(4b) 

The Bank of New York Mellon was directly or indirectly owned by The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and by virtue of the SFO, The Bank of New York 

Mellon Corporation was deemed to be interested in the shares held by this subsidiary.

Save as disclosed above, no other person was interested in or had a short position in the shares, underlying shares and debentures of the 
Company which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under Divisions 2 and 3 of the Part XV of the SFO as at December 31, 2018.

Dividend Policy
Stable dividend payment to shareholders of the Company is our 
primary objective. The Board of Directors of the Company determines 
the interim dividend and recommends the final dividend which 
requires the approval of shareholders of the Company. In proposing 
any dividend payout, the Board of Directors shall take into account, 
inter alia, the Group’s operations, earnings, financial condition, cash 
availability, capital expenditure and future development requirements 
and other factors that may deem relevant at such time. Any payment 
of the dividend by the Company is also subject to any restrictions 
under the Companies Ordinance and the Company’s Articles of 
Association.

Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”)
The Company has adopted the latest ESG reporting guidelines issued 
by the Stock Exchange. A report on TTI’s environmental, social and 
governance commitment can be found on pages 78 to 111.

Sufficiency of Public Float
The Company has maintained a sufficient public float throughout the 
year ended December 31, 2018.

Donations
During the year, the Group made charitable and other donations 
totalling US$1,793,000.

Auditor
A resolution will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting to 
re-appoint Messrs Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu as auditor of the 
Company.

Horst Julius Pudwill
Chairman
Hong Kong

March 6, 2019

121

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018TO THE MEMBERS OF TECHTRONIC INDUSTRIES COMPANY LIMITED
創科實業有限公司
(incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability)

Opinion
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Techtronic Industries Company Limited (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (collectively 
referred to as the “Group”) set out on pages 126 to 214, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 
2018, and the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and 
consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of 
significant accounting policies.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group as at December 
31, 2018, and of its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Hong Kong 
Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“HKICPA”) and have been 
properly prepared in compliance with the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance.

Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Hong Kong Standards on Auditing (“HKSAs”) issued by the HKICPA. Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our 
report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the HKICPA’s Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (“the Code”), and we 
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

122

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Independent Auditor’s ReportKey Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, 
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

Key Audit Matter

How our Audit Addressed the Key Audit Matter

Impairment Assessment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets with 
Indefinite Useful Lives – Floor Care and Appliances Segment
We identified the impairment assessment of goodwill and other 
intangible assets for the Floor Care and Appliances segment as 
defined in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements as a key 
audit matter due to significant judgement and assumptions about the 
future performance of the segment.

As disclosed in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements, as 
at December 31, 2018 the carrying value of goodwill and trademarks 
attributable to the Floor Care and Appliances segment was US$143 
million. This segment is profitable but has underperformed in 
comparison to other cash-generating units and management has 
made a number of key assumptions and assertions to support their 
assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible 
assets attributable to this segment. The key assumptions include 
growth rates, discount rates applied and the forecast performance 
based on management’s view of future business prospects. There is 
no impairment on goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful 
lives for the Floor Care and Appliances segment for the year ended 
December 31, 2018.

Capitalization of Deferred Development Costs
We identified the capitalization of deferred development costs as a 
key audit matter due to significant management judgement about 
the future performance and viability of the products. The Group 
conducts a significant level of development activities and has to apply 
judgement in identifying projects meeting the criteria for capitalization 
under the requirements of accounting standards and to capture 
accurate time and cost information for those projects.

As disclosed in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements, as 
at December 31, 2018 the carrying value of deferred development 
costs was US$338 million with the additions and amortization 
charge during the year being US$124 million and US$100 million 
respectively.

Our procedures in relation to management’s assessment of the 
carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets for the Floor 
Care and Appliances segment included:

• 

• 

• 

• 

Assessing the valuation methodology adopted by management 
which is disclosed in Note 20 to the consolidated financial 
statements;

Challenging the reasonableness of key assumptions based on 
our knowledge of the business and industry;

Reconciling input data used in the cash flow forecasts to 
supporting evidence, such as approved budgets and considering 
the reasonableness of those budgets;

Considering the potential impact of reasonably possible 
downside changes in these key assumptions; and

•  Meeting with the independent valuation specialist engaged 

by management to understand the assumptions they used in 
building up the discounted cash flow model.

In performing our audit procedures, we engaged our internal 
valuation specialists to assess the discount rate applied by 
benchmarking against independent data.

Our procedures in relation to capitalization of deferred development 
costs included:

•  Understanding management’s controls over capitalization of 

deferred development costs;

• 

• 

• 

Evaluating the nature of the type of the research and 
development expenses incurred that are capitalized into 
intangible assets;

Assessing the reasonableness of the capitalization based on our 
knowledge of the business and industry; and

Evaluating the appropriateness of expenses capitalized, on a 
sample basis, by agreeing the material costs, overheads and 
engineers’ hours incurred to external invoices and internal 
timesheets and payroll records.

123

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Key Audit Matters (continued)
Key Audit Matter

Recoverability of Deferred Tax Assets
We identified the recoverability of deferred tax assets as a key audit 
matter due to the recognition of these assets involving judgement by 
management as to the likelihood of the realization of these deferred 
tax assets, which is based on a number of factors including whether 
there will be sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support 
recognition.

As disclosed in Note 42 to the consolidated financial statements, as 
at December 31, 2018 the Group has recognized US$84 million of 
deferred tax assets in the consolidated statement of financial position.

How our Audit Addressed the Key Audit Matter

Our procedures in relation to management’s assessment about the 
recoverability of deferred tax assets included:

• 

• 

• 

Evaluating management’s assessment on the sufficiency of 
future taxable profits in support of the recognition of deferred tax 
assets by comparing management’s forecasts of future profits to 
historical results and evaluating the assumptions used in those 
forecasts;

Discussing with the management the tax positions of the loss 
making entities; and

Obtaining the communications between the Group and taxation 
authorities regarding tax positions.

Other Information
The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the annual 
report, but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.

Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider 
whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this 
other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of Directors and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in 
accordance with HKFRSs issued by the HKICPA and the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance, and for such internal control as the directors 
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error.

In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to 
liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion solely to you, as a body, in accordance 
with section 405 of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance, and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility towards or accept liability 
to any other person for the contents of this report. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with HKSAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken 
on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.

124

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Independent Auditor’s ReportAuditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
As part of an audit in accordance with HKSAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We 
also:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and 
perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may 
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.

Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.

Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by 
the directors.

Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as 
a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are 
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to 
cease to continue as a going concern.

Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the 
consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to 
express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the 
group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant 
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, 
and where applicable, related safeguards.

From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit 
of the consolidated financial statements of the current year and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a 
matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the 
public interest benefits of such communication.

The engagement partner on the audit resulting in the independent auditor’s report is Stephen David Smart.

Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
Certified Public Accountants

Hong Kong
March 6, 2019

125

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes

6

7
8

9

10

11

15

2018
US$’000

7,021,182
(4,406,605)

2,614,577
7,013
25,204
(1,103,437)
(708,135)
(202,563)
(38,049)

594,610
(42,070)

552,540

2017
US$’000

6,063,633
(3,837,426)

2,226,207
5,454
10,792
(925,146)
(623,710)
(163,621)
(24,480)

505,496
(34,972)

470,524

(111)

(7,325)

50,232
(49,173)

948

(46,936)
62,671

8,410

553,488

478,934

552,463
77

552,540

553,411
77

553,488

30.16

30.06

470,425
99

470,524

478,835
99

478,934

25.66

25.58

Revenue
Cost of sales

Gross profit
Other income
Interest income
Selling, distribution and advertising expenses
Administrative expenses
Research and development costs
Finance costs

Profit before taxation
Taxation charge

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive income (loss):
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss, net of related income tax:
  Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
  Fair value gain (loss) on foreign currency forward contracts in hedge accounting
  Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations

Other comprehensive income for the year

Total comprehensive income for the year

Profit for the year attributable to:
  Owners of the Company
  Non-controlling interests

Total comprehensive income attributable to:
  Owners of the Company
  Non-controlling interests

Earnings per share (US cents)
  Basic

  Diluted

126

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive IncomeFor the year ended December 31, 2018ASSETS
Non-current assets
  Property, plant and equipment
  Lease prepayments
  Goodwill

Intangible assets
Interests in associates

  Available-for-sale investments
  Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
  Derivative financial instruments
  Deferred tax assets

Current assets
Inventories

  Right to returned goods asset
  Trade and other receivables
  Deposits and prepayments
  Bills receivable
  Tax recoverable
  Trade receivables from an associate
  Derivative financial instruments
  Held-for-trading investments
  Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Current liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Warranty provision
  Tax payable
  Derivative financial instruments
  Obligations under finance leases – due within one year
  Discounted bills with recourse
  Unsecured borrowings – due within one year
  Refund liabilities from right of return

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Notes

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

16
17
18
19
21
22
23
28
42

24

25

26

27
28
29
23
30

31
32
33

28
34
35
38

790,936
28,475
581,215
620,801
3,664
—

5,361
9,441
83,945

688,868
30,836
555,350
580,424
2,780
3,697
—

9,558
92,939

2,123,838

1,964,452

1,766,722
14,005
1,126,798
126,841
5,057
12,852
2,253
33,788
—

32,828
1,103,880

1,467,420
—

1,136,876
112,627
8,008
6,698
2,790
3,798
32,293
—

863,515

4,225,024

3,634,025

1,921,452
41,164
105,215
15,300
712
288
243,360
255,228
33,267

1,574,402
54,952
97,268
23,912
43,830
2,895
87,837
260,342
—

2,615,986

2,145,438

1,609,038

1,488,587

3,732,876

3,453,039

127

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Consolidated Statement of Financial PositionAs at December 31, 2018 
 
 
Capital and Reserves
  Share capital
  Reserves

Equity attributable to Owners of the Company
Non-controlling interests

Total equity

Non-current Liabilities
  Obligations under finance leases – due after one year
  Unsecured borrowings – due after one year
  Retirement benefit obligations
  Deferred tax liabilities

Notes

39

34
38
41
42

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

654,991
2,402,780

3,057,771
(430)

653,918
2,087,307

2,741,225
(507)

3,057,341

2,740,718

725
540,214
119,974
14,622

675,535

8,722
564,678
124,517
14,404

712,321

Total equity and non-current liabilities

3,732,876

3,453,039

The consolidated financial statements on pages 126 to 214 were approved and authorized for issue by the Board of Directors on March 6, 2019 
and are signed on its behalf by:

Chi Chung Chan
Group Executive Director

Stephan Horst Pudwill
Vice Chairman

128

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Consolidated Statement of Financial PositionAs at December 31, 2018Shares 
held for 
share award 
scheme
US$’000

(10,476)
—
—

Share capital
US$’000

649,214
—
—

Attributable to Owners of the Company

Employee 
share-based 
compensation 
reserve
US$’000

Defined 
benefit 
obligations 
remeasurement 
reserve
US$’000

7,010
—
—

(13,096)
—
2,024

Translation 
reserve
US$’000

(156,729)
—
—

Hedging 
reserve
US$’000

18,152
—
—

Retained 
profits
US$’000

1,905,463
470,425
—

—

—
—
—

—

—

4,704
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—

—

—

—
—
3,370
(3,455)
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
62,671

62,671

62,671

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—

(47,485)

(9,349)
—
—

(7,325)

(7,325)

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—
549
—

(46,936)

(46,936)

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—

—

—

(917)
—
(3,370)
—
4,193
(14)
—
—

6,902

—
—

Attributable 
to non-
controlling 
interests

Share of 
net assets of 
subsidiaries
US$’000

(606)
99
—

—

—
—
—

—

99

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

Total
US$’000

2,398,932
470,524
2,024

(47,485)

(9,349)
549
62,671

8,410

478,934

3,787
(5,388)
—
(3,455)
4,193
—
(70,778)
(65,507)

Total
US$’000

2,399,538
470,425
2,024

(47,485)

(9,349)
549
62,671

8,410

—

—
—
—

—

470,425

478,835

—
(5,388)
—
—
—
14
(70,778)
(65,507)

3,787
(5,388)
—
(3,455)
4,193
—
(70,778)
(65,507)

At January 1, 2017
Profit for the year
Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations
Fair value loss on foreign currency forward contracts in 

hedge accounting

Deferred tax liability on remeasurement of defined benefit 

obligations

Deferred tax liability on hedging reserve
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations

Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year

Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year

Shares issued at premium on exercise of options
Buy-back of shares
Vesting of awarded shares
Shares for share award scheme
Recognition of equity-settled share-based payments
Lapse of share options
Final dividend – 2016
Interim dividend – 2017

At December 31, 2017 (audited)

653,918

(10,561)

(94,058)

Adjustment for adoption of HKFRS 9 (Note 2)
Adjustment for adoption of HKFRS 15 (Note 2)

—
—

—
—

—
—

(20,421)

(28,784)

2,234,229

2,741,225

(507)

2,740,718

—
—

—
—

1,570
(7,060)

1,570
(7,060)

—
—

1,570
(7,060)

At January 1, 2018 (restated)

653,918

(10,561)

(94,058)

6,902

(20,421)

(28,784)

2,228,739

2,735,735

(507)

2,735,228

Profit for the year
Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations
Fair value gain on foreign currency forward contracts in 

hedge accounting

Deferred tax liability on remeasurement of defined benefit 

obligations

Deferred tax liability on hedging reserve
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations

Other comprehensive (loss) income for the year

Total comprehensive (loss) income for the year

Shares issued at premium on exercise of options
Buy-back of shares
Vesting of awarded shares
Shares for share award scheme
Recognition of equity-settled share-based payments
Lapse of share options
Final dividend – 2017
Interim dividend – 2018

—
—

—

—
—
—

—

—

1,073
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—
—

—

—
—
—

—

—

—
—
637
(15,191)
—
—
—
—

—
—

—

—
—
(49,173)

(49,173)

(49,173)

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—
—

—

—
—
—

—

—

(205)
—
(637)
—
4,978
(6)
—
—

—
(29)

—

(82)
—
—

(111)

(111)

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—
—

552,463
—

552,463
(29)

51,730

—
(1,498)
—

50,232

50,232

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—

—

51,730

(82)
(1,498)
(49,173)

948

552,463

553,411

—
(38,608)
—
—
—
6
(93,827)
(89,595)

868
(38,608)
—
(15,191)
4,978
—
(93,827)
(89,595)

77
—

—

—
—
—

—

77

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

552,540
(29)

51,730

(82)
(1,498)
(49,173)

948

553,488

868
(38,608)
—
(15,191)
4,978
—
(93,827)
(89,595)

At December 31, 2018

654,991

(25,115)

(143,231)

11,032

(20,532)

21,448

2,559,178

3,057,771

(430)

3,057,341

129

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Consolidated Statement of Changes in EquityFor the year ended December 31, 20182018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

594,610

505,496

111,994
747
129,229
4,978
(17,954)
5,570
(114)
117
38,049
22,845
(25,204)
16,859
(236)
27,584

909,074
(348,651)
(31,138)
(576)
2,951
537
364,105
2,457
(13,788)
13,512
(4,571)
(15,191)

97,698
732
114,503
4,193
8,920
(2,447)
—

428
24,480
18,455
(10,792)
12,514
—

6,949

781,129
(158,395)
(208,221)
—

3,182
750
230,453
—

815
13,827
18,373
(3,455)

878,721

678,458

(38,049)
(9,582)
(38,811)
59
1,302

(24,480)
(5,441)
(51,048)
—

812

793,640

598,301

Operating Activities
Profit before taxation
Adjustments for:
  Amortization/write-off of intangible assets
  Amortization of lease prepayments
  Depreciation on property, plant and equipment
  Employee share-based payments expense
  Fair value (gain) loss on foreign currency forward contracts
  Fair value loss (gain) on listed equity securities
  Fair value gain on club membership debentures
  Fair value loss on derivative financial instruments
  Finance costs

Impairment loss on trade receivables, net of reversal
Interest income

  Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
  Gain on disposal of listed equity securities
  Write down of inventories

Operating cash flows before movements in working capital
Increase in inventories
Increase in trade and other receivables, deposits and prepayments
Increase in right to returned goods asset
Decrease in bills receivable
Decrease in trade receivables from an associate
Increase in trade and other payables
Increase in refund liabilities from right of return
(Decrease) increase in bills payable
Increase in warranty provision
(Decrease) increase in retirement benefit obligations
Net payment for purchase of shares for share award scheme

Cash generated from operations

Interest paid
Hong Kong Profits Tax paid
Overseas tax paid
Hong Kong Profits Tax refunded
Overseas tax refunded

Net Cash from Operating Activities

130

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Consolidated Statement of Cash FlowsFor the year ended December 31, 2018 
 
Investing Activities
Acquisition of a subsidiary
Additions to intangible assets
Equity interest acquired in an associate
Interest received
Proceeds from disposal of listed equity securities
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of listed equity securities
Purchase of available-for-sale investments
Purchase of held-for-trading investments
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Repayment from associates

Net Cash used in Investing Activities

Financing Activities
Increase (decrease) in discounted bills with recourse
Dividends paid
New bank loans obtained
Proceeds from issue of shares
Repayment of bank loans
Repayment of obligations under finance leases
Buy-back of shares

Net Cash used in Financing Activities

Net Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of the Year
Effect of Foreign Exchange Rate Changes

Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of the Year

Analysis of the Balances of Cash and Cash Equivalents
Represented by:
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Note

43

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

(49,347)
(135,639)
(1,470)
25,204
2,667
1,869
(8,536)
—
—

(259,114)
586

—

(131,415)
—

10,792
—

9,676
—

(3,081)
(29,846)
(203,630)
887

(423,780)

(346,617)

155,523
(183,422)
2,519,087
868
(2,548,665)
(10,751)
(38,608)

(6,060)
(136,285)
2,206,220
3,787
(2,275,477)
(3,786)
(5,388)

(105,968)

(216,989)

263,892

863,515
(23,527)

1,103,880

1,103,880

1,103,880

34,695

803,085
25,735

863,515

863,515

863,515

131

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20181.  General

The Company is a public limited company incorporated in Hong Kong and its shares are listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong 
Limited (the “Stock Exchange”). The address of the registered office and principal place of business of the Company is 29/F, Tower 2, 
Kowloon Commerce Centre, 51 Kwai Cheong Road, Kwai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong.

The principal activities of the Group are the manufacturing and trading of electrical and electronic products.

The functional currency of the Company is United States dollars (“US$”).

2.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”)

New and Amendments to HKFRSs that are mandatorily effective for the current year
The Group has applied the following new and amendments to HKFRSs and an interpretation issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified 
Public Accountants (“HKICPA”) for the first time in the current year:

HKFRS 9 
HKFRS 15 
HK(IFRIC)-Int 22 
Amendments to HKFRS 2 
Amendments to HKFRS 4 
Amendments to HKAS 28 
Amendments to HKAS 40 

Financial Instruments
Revenue from Contracts with Customers and the related Amendments
Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration
Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions
Applying HKFRS 9 Financial Instruments with HKFRS 4 Insurance Contracts
As part of the Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle
Transfers of Investment Property

Except as described below, the application of the amendments to HKFRSs and interpretation in the current year has had no material 
impact on the Group’s financial performance and positions for the current and prior years and/or on the disclosures set out in these 
financial statements.

2.1  HKFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers

The Group has applied HKFRS 15 for the first time in the current year. HKFRS 15 superseded HKAS 18 Revenue, HKAS 11 
Construction Contracts and the related interpretations.

The Group has applied HKFRS 15 retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying this Standard recognized at the date 
of initial application, January 1, 2018. Any difference at the date of initial application is recognized in the opening retained profits 
and comparative information has not been restated. Furthermore, in accordance with the transition provisions in HKFRS 15, the 
Group has elected to apply the Standard retrospectively only to contracts that are not completed at January 1, 2018. Accordingly, 
certain comparative information may not be comparable as comparative information was prepared under HKAS 18 and HKAS 11 
and the related interpretations.

The Group recognizes revenue from the following major sources which arise from contracts with customers:

• 

• 

Commission and royalty income

Manufacturing and sales of electrical and electronic products

132

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20182.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) (continued)

2.1  HKFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (continued)

Information about the Group’s performance obligations and the accounting policies resulting from application of HKFRS 15 are 
disclosed in Notes 6 and 3 respectively.

Summary of effects arising from initial application of HKFRS 15

The following table summarizes the impacts of transition to HKFRS 15 on retained profits at January 1, 2018.

Retained profits
Recognition of a provision for products with a right to return
Tax effect

Impact at January 1, 2018

US$’000

(9,291)
2,231 

(7,060)

The following adjustments were made to the amounts recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position at January 1, 
2018. Line items that were not affected by the changes have not been included.

Carrying 
amounts 
previously 
reported at 
December 31, 

Note

2017 Reclassification Remeasurement
US$’000

US$’000

US$’000

Carrying 
amounts 
adjusted 
under 
HKFRS 15 at 
January 1,
 2018*
US$’000

Non-current Assets
Deferred tax assets

Current Assets
Right to returned goods asset
Trade and other receivables

Capital and Reserves
Retained profits

Current Liabilities
Trade and other payables
Warranty provision
Refund liabilities from right of return

(c)

92,939

—

2,231

95,170

(a)(c)
(a)(b)

—

1,136,876

10,834
3,425

2,595
—

13,429
1,140,301

(c)

2,234,229

—

(7,060)

2,227,169

(a)(b)
(b)
(b)(c)

1,574,402
97,268
—

(1,661)
(3,004)
18,924

—
—

11,886

1,572,741
94,264
30,810

* 

The amounts in this column are before the adjustments from the application of HKFRS 9.

(a) 

As at January 1, 2018, certain right to returned goods asset of US$10,834,000 previously included in trade and other receivables of US$5,574,000 and 

trade and other payables of US$5,260,000 were reclassified to right to returned goods asset.

(b) 

As at January 1, 2018, certain liabilities of US$18,924,000 previously included in warranty provision of US$3,004,000, trade and other receivables of 

US$8,999,000 and trade and other payables of US$6,921,000 were reclassified to refund liabilities from right of return.

(c) 

The total remeasurement effect arising from the initial application of HKFRS 15 resulted an increase in the carrying amounts of right to returned good 

assets and refund liabilities from right of return of US$2,595,000 and US$11,886,000 respectively with corresponding adjustments to retained profits 

and deferred tax assets of US$7,060,000 and US$2,231,000 respectively.

133

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20182.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) (continued)

2.1  HKFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (continued)

The following table summarizes the impacts of applying HKFRS 15 on the Group’s consolidated statement of financial position as at 
December 31, 2018 for the current year for each of the line items affected. Line items that were not affected by the changes have 
not been included.

Impact on the consolidated statement of financial position

Non-current Assets
Deferred tax assets

Current Assets
Right to returned goods asset
Trade and other receivables

Capital and Reserves
Retained profits

Current Liabilities
Trade and other payables
Warranty provision
Refund liabilities from right of return

As reported
US$’000

Adjustments
US$’000

Amounts without 
application of 
HKFRS 15
US$’000

83,945

(2,231)

81,714

14,005
1,126,798

(14,005)
(2,718)

—

1,124,080

2,559,178

8,075

2,567,253

1,921,452
105,215
33,267

2,451
3,787
(33,267)

1,923,903
109,002
—

2.2  HKFRS 9 Financial Instruments

In the current year, the Group has applied HKFRS 9 Financial Instruments and the related consequential amendments to other 
HKFRSs. HKFRS 9 introduces new requirements for 1) the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial 
liabilities, 2) expected credit losses (“ECL”) for financial assets and 3) general hedge accounting.

The Group has applied HKFRS 9 in accordance with the transition provisions set out in HKFRS 9, i.e. applied the classification 
and measurement requirements (including impairment under ECL model) retrospectively to instruments that have not been 
derecognized as at January 1, 2018 (date of initial application) and has not applied the requirements to instruments that have 
already been derecognized as at January 1, 2018. The difference between carrying amounts as at December 31, 2017 and the 
carrying amounts as at January 1, 2018 are recognized in the opening retained profits and other components of equity, without 
restating comparative information.

Accordingly, certain comparative information may not be comparable as comparative information was prepared under HKAS 39 
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement for hedge accounting.

The Group continues to apply HKAS 39 for hedge accounting.

Accounting policies resulting from the application of HKFRS 9 are disclosed in Note 3.

134

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20182.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) (continued)

2.2  HKFRS 9 Financial Instruments (continued)

Summary of effects arising from initial application of HKFRS 9

The table below illustrates the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities and other items subject to 
ECL under HKFRS 9 and HKAS 39 at the date of initial application, January 1, 2018.

Closing balance at December 31, 2017 – HKAS 39
Effect arising from initial application of HKFRS 9:
  Reclassification from available-for-sale investments
  Remeasurement from cost less impairment to fair value

Opening balance at January 1, 2018

(a)  Available-for-sale (“AFS”) investments

Notes

(a)

Available-
for-sale 
investments
US$’000

3,697

(3,697)
—

—

Financial 
assets at 
FVTPL
US$’000

—

3,697
1,570

5,267

From AFS investments to fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”)
At the date of initial application of HKFRS 9, the Group’s unlisted equity securities and club membership debentures of 
US$3,697,000 were reclassified from AFS investments to financial assets at FVTPL. The fair value gains of US$1,570,000 
relating to club membership debentures previously carried at cost less impairment were adjusted to financial assets at FVTPL 
and retained profits as at January 1, 2018. The fair value change on unlisted equity securities is considered insignificant.

(b)  Financial assets at FVTPL and/or designated at FVTPL

The Group has reassessed its investments in equity securities classified as held for trading under HKAS 39 as if the Group 
had purchased these investments at the date of initial application. Based on the facts and circumstances as at the date of 
initial application, US$32,293,000 of the Group’s investments were held for trading and continued to be measured at FVTPL.

The remaining financial assets at FVTPL are derivatives not designated as effective hedging instruments and are continued to 
be measured at FVTPL under HKFRS 9.

There was no impact on the amounts recognized in relation to these assets from the application of HKFRS 9.

As at January 1, 2018, the directors of the Company reviewed and assessed the Group’s existing financial assets for impairment 
using reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort in accordance with the requirements of 
HKFRS 9. The adoption has not resulted in any additional impairment for financial assets as at January 1, 2018.

135

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20182.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) (continued)
2.3  Impacts on opening consolidated statement financial of position arising from the application and 

new standards
As a result of the changes in the Group’s accounting policies above, the opening consolidated statement of financial position had 
to be restated. The following table show the adjustments recognized for each of the line items affected. Line items that were not 
affected by the changes have not been included.

Non-current Assets
AFS investments
Financial assets at FVTPL
Deferred tax assets

Current Assets
Right to returned goods asset
Trade and other receivables
Held-for-trading investments
Financial assets at FVTPL

Current Liabilities
Trade and other payables
Warranty provision
Refund liabilities from right of return

Capital and Reserves
Retained profits

December 31, 
2017 
(Audited)
US$’000

3,697
—

92,939

—

1,136,876
32,293
—

1,574,402
97,268
—

HKFRS 15
US$’000

HKFRS 9
US$’000

January 1, 
2018 
(Restated)
US$’000

—

5,267
95,170

13,429
1,140,301
—

32,293

(3,697)
5,267
—

—
—

(32,293)
32,293

—
—
—

1,572,741
94,264
30,810

—
—

2,231

13,429
3,425
—
—

(1,661)
(3,004)
30,810

2,234,229

(7,060)

1,570

2,228,739

Note:  For the purposes of reporting cash flows from operating activities under indirect method for the year ended December 31, 2018, movements in working 

capital have been computed based on opening consolidated statement of financial position as at January 1, 2018 as disclosed above.

136

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20182.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) (continued)

New and revised HKFRSs in issue but not yet effective
The Group has not early applied the following new and amendments to HKFRSs and an interpretation that have been issued but are not 
yet effective as at January 1, 2018:

HKFRS 16
HKFRS 17
HK(IFRIC)-Int 23
Amendments to HKFRS 3
Amendments to HKFRS 9
Amendments to HKFRS 10 and HKAS 28
Amendments to HKAS 1 and HKAS 8
Amendments to HKAS 19
Amendments to HKAS 28
Amendments to HKFRS

Leases1
Insurance Contracts2
Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments1
Definition of a Business4
Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation1
Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture3
Definition of Material5
Plan Amendment, Curtailment and Settlement1
Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures1
Annual Improvement to HKFRSs 2015-2017 Cycle1

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019.

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2021.

Effective for annual periods beginning on or a date to be determined.

Effective for business combinations and asset acquisitions for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual period beginning on or 

after January 1, 2020.

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2020.

Other than described below, the directors of the Company consider the application of the new and amendments to HKFRSs and 
interpretations would not have any material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

HKFRS 16 Leases
HKFRS 16 introduces a comprehensive model for the identification of lease arrangements and accounting treatments for both lessors and 
lessees. HKFRS 16 will supersede HKAS 17 Leases and the related interpretations when it becomes effective.

HKFRS 16 distinguishes lease and service contracts on the basis of whether an identified asset is controlled by a customer. In addition, 
HKFRS 16 requires sales and leaseback transactions to be determined based on the requirements of HKFRS 15 as to whether the transfer 
of the relevant asset should be accounted as a sale. HKFRS 16 also includes requirements relating to subleases and lease modifications. 
Distinctions of operating leases and finance leases are removed for lessee accounting, and is replaced by a model where a right-of-use 
asset and a corresponding liability have to be recognized for all leases by lessees, except for short-term leases and leases of low value 
assets.

The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost (subject to certain exceptions) less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses, adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liability. The lease liability is initially measured at the 
present value of the lease payments that are not paid at that date. Subsequently, the lease liability is adjusted for interest and lease 
payments, as well as the impact of lease modifications, amongst others. For the classification of cash flows, the Group currently presents 
upfront prepaid lease payments as investing cash flows in relation to leasehold land for owned use and those classified as investment 
properties while other operating lease payments are presented as operating cash flows. Under HKFRS 16, lease payments in relation to a 
lease liability will be allocated into a principal and an interest portion which will be presented as financing cash flows by the Group, upfront 
prepaid lease payment will continue be presented as investing on operating cash flows in accordance to the nature, as appropriate.

Under HKAS 17, the Group has already recognized an asset and a related finance lease liability, for a finance lease arrangement and 
prepaid lease payments for leasehold land where the Group is a lessee. The application of HKFRS 16 may result in potential changes in 
classification of these assets depending on whether the Group presents right-of-use assets separately or within the same line item at which 
the corresponding underlying assets would be presented if they were owned.

Furthermore, extensive disclosures are required by HKFRS 16.

As at December 31, 2018, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of US$316,373,000 as disclosed in Note 45. A 
preliminary assessment indicates that these arrangements may meet the definition of a lease. Upon application of HKFRS 16, the Group 
will recognize a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability in respect of all these leases unless they qualify for low value or short-term 
leases.

137

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20182.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) (continued)

HKFRS 16 Leases (continued)
The application of new requirements may result in changes in measurement, presentation and disclosure as indicated above. The Group 
intends to elect the practical expedient to apply HKFRS 16 to contracts that were previously identified as leases applying HKAS 17 and 
HK(IFRIC)-Int 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease and not apply this standard to contracts that were not previously 
identified as containing a lease applying HKAS 17 and HK(IFRIC)-Int 4. Therefore, the Group will not reassess whether the contracts 
are, or contain a lease which already existed prior to the date of initial application. Furthermore, the Group intends to elect the modified 
retrospective approach for the application of HKFRS 16 as lessee and will recognize the cumulative effect of initial application to opening 
retained profits without restating comparative information.

Amendments to HKAS 28 Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures
The amendments clarify that an entity applies HKFRS 9, including the impairment requirements, to long-term interests in an associate 
to which the equity method is not applied that form part of the net investment in the investee. Furthermore, in applying HKFRS 9 to 
long-term interests, an entity does not take into account adjustments to their carrying amount required by HKAS 28 (i.e. adjustments to 
the carrying amount of long-term interests arising from the allocation of losses of the investee or assessment of impairment in accordance 
with HKAS 28).

As at December 31, 2018, amounts due from associates of US$2,194,000 are considered as long-term interests that, in substance form 
part of the Group’s net investments in the relevant joint ventures and associates. However, the application is not expected to have impact 
as the Group’s existing accounting policies are consistent with the requirements clarified by the amendments.

3.  Significant Accounting Policies

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with HKFRSs issued by the HKICPA. In addition, the 
consolidated financial statements include applicable disclosures required by the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock 
Exchange (the “Listing Rules”) and by the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (“CO”).

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments, which are 
measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period, as explained in the accounting policies set out below.

Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods.

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation 
technique. In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability 
if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Fair 
value for measurement and/or disclosure purposes in these consolidated financial statements is determined on such a basis, except for 
share-based payment transactions that are within the scope of HKFRS 2 Share-based Payment, leasing transactions that are within the 
scope of HKAS 17, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realizable value in HKAS 
2 Inventories or value in use in HKAS 36 Impairment of Assets.

In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorized into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which 
the inputs to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, 
which are described as follows:

• 

• 

Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the 
measurement date;

Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly or indirectly; and

• 

Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.

The principal accounting policies are set out below.

138

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20183.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company and its 
subsidiaries. Control is achieved when the Company:

• 

• 

• 

has the power over the investee;

is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and

has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.

The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of 
the three elements of control listed above.

Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the 
subsidiary. Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated 
statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income from the date the Group gains control until the date when the Group ceases to 
control the subsidiary.

Profit or loss and each item of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling 
interests. Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests even 
if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.

When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies in line with the 
Group’s accounting policies.

All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are 
eliminated in full on consolidation.

Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are presented separately from the Group’s equity therein, which represent present ownership 
interests entitling their holders to a proportionate share of net assets of the relevant subsidiaries upon liquidation.

Business Combinations
Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in a business combination is 
measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities 
incurred by the Group to the former Owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for control of the 
acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are generally recognized in profit or loss as incurred.

At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognized at their fair value at the acquisition date, 
except that:

• 

• 

• 

deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognized and measured in 
accordance with HKAS 12 Income Taxes and HKAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively;

liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree or share-based payment arrangements 
of the Group entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in accordance with HKFRS 
2 at the acquisition date (see the accounting policy below); and

assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with HKFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that standard.

139

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20183.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Business Combinations (continued)
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the 
acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any) over the net of the acquisition-date 
amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. If, after re-assessment, the net of the acquisition-date amounts 
of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any 
non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held interest in the acquiree (if any), the excess is 
recognized immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.

Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets 
in the event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the 
recognized amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on a transaction-by-transaction 
basis.

When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes a contingent consideration arrangement, the 
contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and considered as part of the consideration transferred in a business 
combination. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted 
retrospectively, with the corresponding adjustments made against goodwill. Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise 
from additional information obtained during the “measurement period” (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date) about 
facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.

The subsequent accounting for the contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments depends on how 
the contingent consideration is classified. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent reporting 
dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability 
is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with HKAS 39/HKFRS 9 or HKAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and 
Contingent Assets, as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognized in profit or loss.

Goodwill
Goodwill arising on an acquisition of a business is carried at cost as established at the date of acquisition of the business less any 
accumulated impairment losses, if any, and is presented separately in the consolidated statement of financial position.

For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (or groups of cash-generating 
units) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination, which represent the lowest level at which the goodwill is monitored 
for internal management purposes and not larger than an operating segment.

A cash-generating unit (or groups of cash-generating units) to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or 
more frequently whenever there is indication that the unit may be impaired. For goodwill arising on an acquisition in a reporting period, 
the cash-generating unit (or groups of cash-generating units) to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment before the end 
of that reporting period.

If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit, the impairment loss is 
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the 
basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit (or groups of cash-generating units). Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognized 
directly in profit or loss in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. An impairment loss recognized for 
goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.

On disposal of the relevant cash-generating unit or any of the cash-generating unit within the group of cash-generating units, the 
attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the amount of profit or loss on disposal. When the Group disposes of 
an operation within the cash-generating unit (or a cash-generating unit within a group of cash-generating units), the amount of goodwill 
disposed of is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation (or the cash-generating unit) disposed of and the portion of the 
cash-generating unit (or the group of cash-generating units) retained.

140

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20183.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Interests in Associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial 
and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.

The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these consolidated financial statements using the equity method of 
accounting. Under the equity method, investments in associates are initially recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position 
at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognize the Group’s share of profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the associates. Changes 
in net assets of the associate other than profit or loss and other comprehensive income are not accounted for unless such changes 
resulted in changes in ownership interest held by the Group. When the Group’s share of loss of an associate exceeds the Group’s interest 
in that associate (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the associate), the 
Group discontinues recognizing its share of further losses. Additional losses are recognized only to the extent that the Group has incurred 
legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of that associate.

An investment in an associate is accounted for using the equity method from the date on which the investee becomes an associate. On 
acquisition of the investment in an associate, any excess of the cost of the investment over the Group’s share of the net fair value of the 
identifiable assets and liabilities of the investee is recognized as goodwill, which is included within the carrying amount of the investment. 
Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities over the cost of the investment, after 
reassessment, is recognized immediately in profit or loss in the period in which the investment is acquired.

The Group assesses whether there is an objective evidence that the interest in an associate or a joint venture may be impaired. When 
any objective evidence exists, the entire carrying amount of the investment (including goodwill) is tested for impairment in accordance 
with HKAS 36 as a single asset by comparing its recoverable amount (higher of value in use and fair value less costs of disposal) with its 
carrying amount. Any impairment loss recognized forms part of the carrying amount of the investment. Any reversal of that impairment 
loss is recognized in accordance with HKAS 36 to the extent that the recoverable amount of the investment subsequently increases.

When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate, it is accounted for as a disposal of the entire interest in the 
investee with a resulting gain or loss being recognized in profit or loss. When the Group retains an interest in the former associate and the 
retained interest is a financial asset within the scope of HKFRS 9/HKAS 39, the Group measures the retained interest at fair value at that 
date and the fair value is regarded as its fair value on initial recognition. The difference between the carrying amount of the associate at the 
date the equity method was discontinued, and the fair value of any retained interest and any proceeds from disposing the relevant interest 
in the associate is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal of the associate. In addition, the Group accounts for all 
amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income in relation to that associate on the same basis as would be required if that 
associate had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. Therefore, if a gain or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive 
income by that associate would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities, the Group reclassifies the 
gain or loss from equity to profit or loss (as a reclassification adjustment) upon disposal/partial disposal of the relevant associate.

When the Group reduces its ownership interest in an associate but the Group continues to use the equity method, the Group reclassifies 
to profit or loss the proportion of the gain or loss that had previously been recognized in other comprehensive income relating to that 
reduction in ownership interest if that gain or loss would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities.

When a group entity transacts with an associate of the Group (such as a sale or contribution of assets), profits and losses resulting from 
the transactions with the associate are recognized in the Group’s consolidated financial statements only to the extent of interests in the 
associate that are not related to the Group.

Intangible Assets
Intangible Assets Acquired Separately

Intangible assets acquired separately and with finite useful lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and any accumulated 
impairment losses. Amortization of intangible assets with finite useful lives is provided on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful 
lives. The estimated useful life and amortization method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in 
estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis. Alternatively, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives that are acquired separately 
are carried at cost less any subsequent accumulated impairment losses (see the accounting policy in respect of impairment losses on 
tangible and intangible assets below).

141

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20183.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Intangible Assets (continued)
Intangible Assets Acquired in a Business Combination

Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognized separately from goodwill and are initially measured at their fair value 
at the acquisition date. The cost of these intangible assets is their fair value at the acquisition date.

Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets with finite useful lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and any 
accumulated impairment losses. Amortization of intangible assets with finite useful lives is provided on a straight-line basis over their 
estimated useful lives. Alternatively, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are carried at cost less any subsequent accumulated 
impairment losses (see the accounting policy in respect of impairment losses on tangible and intangible assets below).

Internally-Generated Intangible Assets – Research and Development Expenditure

Expenditure on research activities is recognized as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.

An internally-generated intangible asset arising from development activities (or from the development phase of an internal project) is 
recognized only if all of the following have been demonstrated:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale;

the intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it;

the ability to use or sell the intangible asset;

how the intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits;

the availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the intangible 
asset; and

• 

the ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development.

The amount initially recognized for an internally-generated intangible asset is the sum of the expenditure incurred from the date when 
the intangible asset first meets the recognition criteria. Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognized, development 
expenditure is charged to profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred.

Subsequent to initial recognition, an internally-generated intangible asset is measured at cost less accumulated amortization and 
accumulated impairment losses (if any), on the same basis as intangible assets acquired separately.

An intangible asset is derecognized on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from use or disposal. Gains or losses 
arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured at the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and are recognized in profit or loss in the period when the asset is derecognized.

Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.

142

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20183.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

The Group as Lessee
Assets held under finance leases are recognized as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the 
present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the consolidation statement of 
financial position as a finance lease obligation.

Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and a reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of 
interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance expenses are recognized immediately in profit or loss, unless they are directly 
attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalized in accordance with the Group’s policy on borrowing costs (see the 
accounting policy below).

Operating lease payments, including the cost of acquiring land held under operating leases, are recognized as an expense on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.

In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, these incentives are recognized as a liability. The aggregate 
benefits of incentives are recognized as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis.

Leasehold Land and Building
When the Group makes payments for a property interest which includes both leasehold land and building elements, the Group assesses 
the classification of each element separately based on the assessment as to whether substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to 
ownership of each element have been transferred to the Group, unless it is clear that both elements are operating leases in which case 
the entire property is accounted as an operating lease. Specifically, the entire consideration (including any lump-sum upfront payments) 
are allocated between the leasehold land and the building elements in proportion to the relative fair values of the leasehold interests in the 
land element and building element at initial recognition.

To the extent the allocation of the lease payments can be made reliably, interest in leasehold land that is accounted for as an operating 
lease is presented as “lease prepayments” in the consolidated statement of financial position and is amortized over the lease term on a 
straight-line basis. When the lease payments cannot be allocated reliably between the leasehold land and building elements, the entire 
property is generally classified as if the leasehold land is under finance lease.

Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment including buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for administrative 
purposes, other than construction in progress, are stated in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost less subsequent 
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any.

Freehold land is not depreciated.

Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of items of property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land and construction in 
progress, over their estimated useful lives and after taking into account of their estimated residual values, using the straight-line method. 
The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period with the effect of any 
changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.

Construction in progress includes property, plant and equipment in the course of construction for production or for its own use purposes. 
Construction in progress is carried at cost, less any recognized impairment loss. Cost includes professional fees capitalized in accordance 
with the Group’s accounting policy. Construction in progress is classified to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment 
when completed and ready for its intended use. Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property, plant and equipment, 
commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.

Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, 
the term of the relevant lease. However, when there is no reasonable certainty that ownership will be obtained by the end of the lease 
term, assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives.

An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from 
the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the item) is included in profit or loss in the period in which the item is derecognized.

143

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20183.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Impairment Losses on Tangible and Intangible Assets other than Goodwill (see the Accounting Policy 
in respect of Goodwill above)
At the end of the reporting period, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible, intangible assets with finite useful lives to 
determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount of the relevant asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any. The recoverable amount of 
tangible and intangible assets are estimated individually, when it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, 
the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Where a reasonable and consistent 
basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash-generating units, or otherwise they are allocated 
to the smallest group of cash-generating units for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified.

Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually, and 
whenever there is an indication that they may be impaired.

The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and the risks specific to the asset (or a cash-generating unit) for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.

If the recoverable amount of an asset (or a cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount 
of the asset (or a cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. In allocating the impairment loss, the impairment loss is 
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill (if applicable) and then to the other assets on a pro-rata basis based on the 
carrying amount of each asset in the unit. The carrying amount of an asset is not reduced below the highest of its fair value less costs of 
disposal (if measureable), its value in use (if determinable) and zero. The amount of the impairment loss that would otherwise have been 
allocated to the asset is allocated pro-rata to the other assets of the unit. An impairment loss is recognized immediately in profit or loss.

Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or a cash-generating unit is increased to the revised 
estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset or a cash-generating unit in prior years. A reversal of an impairment 
loss is recognized as income immediately.

Financial Instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position when a group entity becomes 
a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognized and 
derecognized on a trade date basis. Regular way purchases or sales are purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of 
assets within the time frame established by regulation or convention in the market place.

Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value except for trade receivables arising from contracts with 
customers which are initially measured in accordance with HKFRS 15 since January 1, 2018. Transaction costs that are directly 
attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities at 
FVTPL) are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. 
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at FVTPL are recognized immediately in 
profit or loss.

The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortized cost of a financial asset or financial liability and of allocating interest 
income and interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash 
receipts and payments (including all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction 
costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the financial asset or financial liability, or, where appropriate, a 
shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.

144

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20183.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)
Financial Assets

Classification and Subsequent Measurement of Financial Assets (upon Application of HKFRS 9)
Financial assets that meet the following conditions are subsequently measured at amortized cost:

• 

• 

the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to collect contractual cash flows; and

the contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding.

Financial assets that meet the following conditions are subsequently measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 
(“FVTOCI”):

• 

• 

the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling; 
and

the contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding.

All other financial assets are subsequently measured at FVTPL except for derivatives designated as cash flow hedge relationship and, that 
at the date of initial application/initial recognition of a financial asset the Group may irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in fair 
value of an equity investment in other comprehensive income (“OCI”) if that equity investment is neither held for trading nor contingent 
consideration recognized by an acquirer in a business combination to which HKFRS 3 Business Combinations applies.

A financial asset is classified as held for trading if:

• 

• 

it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near term; or

on initial recognition it is a part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent 
actual pattern of short-term profit-taking; or

• 

it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument

Amortized Cost and Interest Income
Interest income is recognized using the effective interest method for financial assets measured subsequently at amortized cost. Interest 
income is calculated by applying the effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount of a financial asset, except for financial assets 
that have subsequently become credit-impaired (see below). For financial assets that have subsequently become credit-impaired, interest 
income is recognized by applying the effective interest rate to the amortized cost of the financial asset from the next reporting period. If 
the credit risk on the credit-impaired financial instrument improves so that the financial asset is no longer credit-impaired, interest income 
is recognized by applying the effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount of the financial asset from the beginning of the reporting 
period following the determination that the asset is no longer credit impaired.

Financial Assets at FVTPL
Financial assets that do not meet the criteria for being measured at amortized cost or FVTOCI or designated as FVTOCI are measured at 
FVTPL except for derivatives designated as cash flow hedge relationship.

Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period, with any fair value gains or losses recognized in 
profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognized in profit or loss includes any dividend or interest earned on the financial assets.

Impairment of Financial Assets (upon Application HKFRS 9)
The Group recognizes a loss allowance for ECL on financial assets which are subject to impairment under HKFRS 9 (including trade 
and other receivables, bills receivable, trade receivables from an associate, bank balances, deposits and cash and financial guarantee 
contracts). The amount of ECL is updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition.

Lifetime ECL represents the ECL that will result from all possible default events over the expected life of the relevant instrument. In 
contrast, 12-month ECL (“12m ECL”) represents the portion of lifetime ECL that is expected to result from default events that are possible 
within 12 months after the reporting date. Assessment are done based on the Group’s historical credit loss experience, adjusted for factors 
that are specific to the debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment of both the current conditions at the reporting date as 
well as the forecast of future conditions.

145

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20183.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)
Financial Assets (continued)
The Group always recognizes lifetime ECL for trade receivables without significant financing component. The ECL on these assets are 
assessed collectively using a provision matrix with appropriate groupings.

For all other instruments, the Group measures the loss allowance equal to 12m ECL, unless there has been a significant increase in 
credit risk since initial recognition, in which case the Group recognizes lifetime ECL. The assessment of whether lifetime ECL should be 
recognized is based on significant increases in the likelihood or risk of a default occurring since initial recognition.

(i)  Significant Increase in Credit Risk

In assessing whether the credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group compares the risk of a default 
occurring on the financial instrument as at the reporting date with the risk of a default occurring on the financial instrument as at 
the date of initial recognition. In making this assessment, the Group considers both quantitative and qualitative information that is 
reasonable and supportable, including historical experience and forward-looking information that is available without undue cost or 
effort.

In particular, the following information is taken into account when assessing whether credit risk has increased significantly:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

an actual or expected significant deterioration in the financial instrument’s external (if available) or internal credit rating;

significant deterioration in external market indicators of credit risk, e.g. a significant increase in the credit spread, the credit 
default swap prices for the debtor;

existing or forecast adverse changes in business, financial or economic conditions that are expected to cause a significant 
decrease in the debtor’s ability to meet its debt obligations;

an actual or expected significant deterioration in the operating results of the debtor;

an actual or expected significant adverse change in the regulatory, economic, or technological environment of the debtor that 
results in a significant decrease in the debtor’s ability to meet its debt obligations.

Irrespective of the outcome of the above assessment, the Group presumes that the credit risk has increased significantly since 
initial recognition when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due, unless the Group has reasonable and supportable 
information that demonstrates otherwise.

Despite the aforegoing, the Group assumes that the credit risk on a debt instrument has not increased significantly since initial 
recognition if the debt instrument is determined to have low credit risk at the reporting date. A debt instrument is determined to 
have low credit risk if i) it has a low risk of default, ii) the borrower has a strong capacity to meet its contractual cash flow obligations 
in the near term and iii) adverse changes in economic and business conditions in the longer term may, but will not necessarily, 
reduce the ability of the borrower to fulfil its contractual cash flow obligations. The Group considers a debt instrument to have low 
credit risk when it has an internal or external credit rating of ‘investment grade’ as per globally understood definitions.

The Group regularly monitors the effectiveness of the criteria used to identify whether there has been a significant increase in credit 
risk and revises them as appropriate to ensure that the criteria are capable of identifying significant increase in credit risk before the 
amount becomes past due.

(ii)  Definition of Default

For internal credit risk management, the Group considers an event of default occurs when information developed internally or 
obtained from external sources indicates that the debtor is unlikely to pay its creditors, including the Group, in full (without taking 
into account any collaterals held by the Group).

Irrespective of the above, the Group considers that default has occurred when a financial asset is more than 90 days past due 
unless the Group has reasonable and supportable information to demonstrate that a more lagging default criterion is more 
appropriate.

146

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20183.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)
Financial Assets (continued)

(iii)  Credit-impaired Financial Assets

A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events of default that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash 
flows of that financial asset have occurred. Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired includes observable data about the 
following events:

(a) 

significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the borrower;

(b) 

a breach of contract, such as a default or past due event;

(c) 

the lender(s) of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, having granted 
to the borrower a concession(s) that the lender(s) would not otherwise consider;

(d) 

it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganization; or

(e) 

the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties.

(iv)  Write-off Policy

The Group writes off a financial asset when there is information indicating that the counterparty is in severe financial difficulty and 
there is no realistic prospect of recovery, for example, when the counterparty has been placed under liquidation or has entered 
into bankruptcy proceedings. Financial assets written off may still be subject to enforcement activities under the Group’s recovery 
procedures, taking into account legal advice where appropriate. A write-off constitutes a derecognition event. Any subsequent 
recoveries are recognized in profit or loss.

(v)  Measurement and Recognition of ECL

The measurement of ECL is a function of the probability of default, loss given default (i.e. the magnitude of the loss if there is a 
default) and the exposure at default. The assessment of the probability of default and loss given default is based on historical data 
adjusted by forward-looking information. Estimation of ECL reflects an unbiased and probability-weighted amount that is determined 
with the respective risks of default occurring as the weights.

Generally, the ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to the Group in accordance with the contract 
and the cash flows that the Group expects to receive, discounted at the effective interest rate determined at initial recognition.

For a financial guarantee contract, the Group is required to make payments only in the event of a default by the debtor in 
accordance with the terms of the instrument that is guaranteed. Accordingly, the expected losses is the present value of the 
expected payments to reimburse the holder for a credit loss that it incurs less any amounts that the Group expects to receive from 
the holder, the debtor or any other party.

For ECL on financial guarantee contracts for which the effective interest rate cannot be determined, the Group will apply a discount 
rate that reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks that are specific to the cash flows but only 
if, and to the extent that, the risks are taken into account by adjusting the discount rate instead of adjusting the cash shortfalls being 
discounted.

Where ECL is measured on a collective basis or cater for cases where evidence at the individual instrument level may not yet be 
available, the financial instruments are grouped on the basis as below:

• 

• 

• 

• 

Nature of financial instruments (i.e. the Group’s trade receivables are each assessed as a separate group. Trade receivables 
from an associate and other receivables are assessed for expected credit losses on an individual basis);

Past-due status;

Nature, size and industry of debtors; and

External credit ratings where available.

147

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20183.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)
Financial Assets (continued)
(v)  Measurement and Recognition of ECL (continued)

The grouping is regularly reviewed by management to ensure the constituents of each group continue to share similar credit risk 
characteristics.

Interest income is calculated based on the gross carrying amount of the financial asset unless the financial asset is credit impaired, 
in which case interest income is calculated based on amortized cost of the financial asset (i.e. gross carrying amount less loss 
allowance for ECL).

For financial guarantee contracts, the loss allowances are recognized at the higher of the amount of the loss allowance determined 
in accordance with HKFRS 9; and the amount initially recognized less, where appropriate, cumulative amount of income recognized 
over the guarantee period.

Except for financial guarantee contracts, the Group recognizes an impairment gain or loss in profit or loss for all financial 
instruments by adjusting their carrying amount, with the exception of trade receivables where the corresponding adjustment is 
recognized through a loss allowance account.

Classification and Subsequent Measurement of Financial Assets (before Application of HKFRS 9 on January 1, 2018)
The Group’s financial assets are classified into one of the three categories, including financial assets at FVTPL, loans and receivables and 
AFS financial assets. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial 
recognition. All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognized and derecognized on a trade date basis. Regular way 
purchases or sales are purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the time frame established by regulation 
or convention in the marketplace.

Interest income is recognized on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified as at FVTPL, of 
which interest income is included in net gains or losses.

Financial Assets at FVTPL
Financial assets at FVTPL include financial assets held for trading.

A financial asset is classified as held for trading if:

• 

• 

it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near future; or

it is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of 
short-term profit-taking; or

• 

it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.

Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value arising from remeasurement recognized directly in profit 
or loss in the period in which they arise. The net gain or loss recognized in profit or loss includes any dividend or interest earned on the 
financial assets.

Loans and Receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables (including trade and other receivables, bills receivable, trade receivables from 
an associate and bank balances, deposits and cash) are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less any identified 
impairment losses (see accounting policy in respect of impairment of financial assets below).

AFS Financial Assets
AFS financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated or not classified as financial assets at FVTPL, loans and receivables or 
held-to-maturity investments.

For AFS equity investments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured, 
they are measured at cost less any identified impairment losses at the end of each reporting period (see accounting policy in respect of 
impairment of financial assets below).

148

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20183.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)
Financial Assets (continued)

Impairment of Financial Assets (before Application of HKFRS 9 on January 1, 2018)
Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of each reporting period. Financial 
assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of 
the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the financial assets have been affected.

For all other financial assets, objective evidence of impairment could include:

• 

• 

• 

significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty; or

breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments; or

it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organization.

For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are, in addition, 
subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis. Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include 
the Group’s past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average 
credit period of 30 to 120 days, or observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.

For financial assets carried at amortized cost, the amount of the impairment loss recognized is the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate.

For financial assets carried at cost, the amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount 
and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset. Such 
impairment loss will not be reversed in subsequent periods.

The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade 
receivables and trade receivables from an associate, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. 
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognized in profit or loss. When a trade receivable is considered 
uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to profit 
or loss.

For financial assets measured at amortized cost, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of an impairment loss decreases and the decrease 
can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognized, the previously recognized impairment loss is 
reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed 
what the amortized cost would have been had the impairment not been recognized.

Financial Liabilities and Equity

Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by a group entity are classified either as financial liabilities or as equity in accordance 
with the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.

Equity Instrument
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity 
instruments issued by the Company are recognized at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.

Buy-back of the Company’s own equity instruments is recognized and deducted directly in equity. No gain or loss is recognized in profit or 
loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s own equity instruments.

149

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20183.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)
Financial Liabilities and Equity (continued)

Other Financial Liabilities at Amortized Cost
Other financial liabilities (including unsecured borrowings, trade and other payables, bills payable and discounted bills with recourse) are 
subsequently measured at amortized cost, using the effective interest method.

Derivative Financial Instruments
Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value at the date when a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to 
their fair value at the end of the reporting period. The resulting gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative 
is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of 
the hedge relationship.

Hedge Accounting
The Group designates certain derivatives as hedging instruments for cash flow hedges.

At the inception of the hedging relationship the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, 
along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of 
the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly 
effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.

Assessment of Hedging Relationship and Effectiveness
A hedge is regarded as highly effective only if both of the following conditions are met:

• 

• 

at the inception and in subsequent periods, the hedge is expected to be highly effective; and

the actual results of the hedge are within a range of 80 to 125 per cent.

Cash Flow Hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognized in 
other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized 
immediately in profit or loss.

Amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity (hedging reserve) are reclassified to profit or 
loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss, in the same line of the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income as the recognized hedged item.

Discontinuation of Hedge Accounting
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, 
terminated or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.

For cash flow hedge, any gain or loss recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity at that time remains in 
equity and is recognized when the forecast transactions is ultimately recognized in profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognized immediately in profit or loss.

Financial Guarantee Contracts
A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs 
because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, the Group measures the financial guarantee contract at the higher of: (i) the amount of the loss 
allowance determined in accordance with HKFRS 9 (since January 1, 2018)/HKAS 37 (before application of HKFRS 9 on January 1, 
2018); and (ii) the amount initially recognized less, when appropriate, cumulative amortization recognized over the guarantee period.

150

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20183.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)
Derecognition

The Group derecognizes a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers 
the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers 
nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group continues to 
recognize the asset to the extent of its continuing involvement and recognizes an associated liability. If the Group retains substantially 
all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognize the financial asset and also 
recognizes a collateralized borrowing for the proceeds received.

On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the sum of the consideration 
received and receivable is recognized in profit or loss.

Financial liabilities are derecognized only when the obligation specified in the relevant contract is discharged, cancelled or expires. The 
difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognized and the consideration paid is recognized in profit or loss.

Provisions
Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be 
required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are measured at the best 
estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and 
uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its 
carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows (where the effect of the time value of money is material).

A provision for warranties is recognized at the time the products are sold based on the estimated cost using historical data for the level of 
repairs and replacements.

Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost of inventories is calculated using the first-in, first-out method. Net 
realizable value represents the estimated selling price for inventories less all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make 
the sales.

Revenue from Contracts with Customers (upon Application of HKFRS 15)
Under HKFRS 15, the Group recognizes revenue when (or as) a performance obligation is satisfied, i.e. when “control” of the goods or 
services underlying the particular performance obligation is transferred to the customer.

A performance obligation represents a good or service (or a bundle of goods or services) that is distinct or a series of distinct goods or 
services that are substantially the same.

Control is transferred over time and revenue is recognized over time by reference to the progress towards complete satisfaction of the 
relevant performance obligation if one of the following criteria is met:

• 

• 

• 

the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group’s performance as the Group performs;

the Group’s performance creates and enhances an asset that the customer controls as the Group performs; or

the Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the Group and the Group has an enforceable right to 
payment for performance completed to date.

Otherwise, revenue is recognized at a point in time when the customer obtains control of the distinct good or service.

151

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20183.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Over time Revenue Recognition (Commission and Royalty Income): Measurement of Progress towards 
Complete Satisfaction of a Performance Obligation
The progress towards complete satisfaction of a performance obligation is measured based on output method, which is to recognize 
revenue on the basis of direct measurements of the value of the goods or services transferred to the customer to date relative to the 
remaining goods or services promised under the contract, that best depict the Group’s performance in transferring control of goods or 
services.

Refund Liabilities
The Group recognizes a refund liability if the Group expects to refund some or all of the consideration received from customers.

Sale with a Right of Return/Exchange
For a sale of products with a right of return/exchange for dissimilar products, the Group recognizes all of the following:

(a) 

revenue for the transferred products in the amount of consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled (therefore, revenue 
would not be recognized for the products expected to be returned/exchanged);

(b) 

a refund liability/contract liability; and

(c) 

an asset (and corresponding adjustment to cost of sales) for its right to recover products from customers.

Revenue Recognition (prior to January 1, 2018)
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods sold by the 
Group to outside customers in the normal course of business, less returns and allowances, and commission income and royalty income 
received.

Revenue is recognized when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, when it is probable that future economic benefits will flow 
to the Group and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities, as described below.

Revenue from sales of goods is recognized when goods are delivered and title has passed.

Commission income is recognized when services are provided.

Royalty income is recognized on a time proportion basis in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreements.

Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which 
is the rate that discounts the estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying 
amount on initial recognition.

Dividend income from investments is recognized when the shareholders’ right to receive payment have been established.

Taxation
Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.

The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the 
consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable 
or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is 
calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.

152

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20183.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Taxation (continued)
Deferred tax is recognized on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognized for 
all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognized for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it 
is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilized. Such deferred tax assets 
and liabilities are not recognized if the temporary difference arises from initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other 
than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting 
profit. In addition, deferred tax liabilities are not recognized if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill.

Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except 
where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such investments and interests 
are only recognized to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilize the benefits of the 
temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of the reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or 
the asset is realized, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.

The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the 
Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets 
and liabilities on a net basis.

Current and deferred tax is recognized in profit or loss, except when it relates to items that are recognized in other comprehensive income 
or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity 
respectively. Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in 
the accounting for the business combination.

Foreign Currencies
In preparing the financial statements of each individual group entity, transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of that 
entity (foreign currencies) are recognized at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting 
period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates at that date. Non-monetary items that 
are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.

Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are recognized in profit 
or loss in the period in which they arise, except for exchange differences arising on a monetary item that form part of the Company’s 
net investment in a foreign operation, in which case, such exchange differences are recognized in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated in equity and will be reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.

For the purposes of presenting the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are 
translated into the presentation currency of the Group (i.e. US$) at the rate of exchange prevailing at the end of each reporting period, and 
their income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates for the year. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognized 
in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity under the heading of translation reserve (attributed to non-controlling interests 
as appropriate).

153

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20183.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Foreign Currencies (continued)
On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e. a disposal of the Group’s entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss 
of control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of significant influence over an associate that 
includes a foreign operation), all of the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation attributable to the owners 
of the Company are reclassified to profit or loss. In addition, in relation to a partial disposal of a subsidiary that does not result in the 
Group losing control over the subsidiary, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are reattributed to non-controlling 
interests and are not recognized in profit or loss. For all other partial disposals (i.e. partial disposals of associates that do not result in the 
Group losing significant influence), the proportionate share of the accumulated exchange differences is reclassified to profit or loss.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identifiable assets acquired arising on an acquisition of a foreign operation on or after January 1, 
2005 are treated as assets and liabilities of that foreign operation and retranslated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the end of the 
reporting date. Exchange differences arising are recognized in the other comprehensive income.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identifiable assets acquired arising on acquisitions of foreign operations before January 1, 2005 
are treated as non-monetary foreign currency items of the acquirer and reported using the historical exchange rate prevailing at the date 
of the acquisition.

Borrowing Costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily 
take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets until such time as the 
assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.

All other borrowing costs are recognized in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.

Equity-Settled Share-Based Payment Transactions
The fair value of the equity-settled share-based payments determined at the grant date without taking into consideration all non-market 
vesting conditions is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of equity instruments 
that will eventually vest, with a corresponding increase in equity (employee share-based compensation reserve). At the end of each 
reporting period, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest based on assessment of all relevant 
non-market vesting conditions. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognized in profit or loss such that the 
cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to the employee share-based compensation reserve.

At the time when the share options are exercised, the amount previously recognized in employee share-based compensation reserve will 
be transferred to share capital. When the share options are forfeited or are still not exercised at the expiry date, the amount previously 
recognized in the employee share-based compensation reserve will be transferred to retained profits.

The fair value of services received determined by reference to the fair value of shares awarded at the grant date is expensed on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity (employee share-based compensation reserve).

When the trustee purchases the Company’s shares from the open market, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable 
incremental costs, is presented as shares held for share award scheme and deducted from total equity. No gain or loss is recognized on 
the transactions of the Company’s own shares.

When the trustee transfers the Company’s shares to grantees upon vesting, the related costs of the granted shares vested are reversed 
from shares held under the share award scheme. Accordingly, the related expense of the granted shares vested is reversed from the 
employee share-based compensation reserve. The difference arising from this transfer is debited/credited to retained profits. At the end of 
the reporting period, the Group revises its estimate of the number of shares that are expected to ultimately vest. The impact of the revision 
of the estimate, if any, is recognized in profit or loss with a corresponding adjustment to the employee share-based compensation reserve.

Government Grants
Government grants are not recognized until there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them 
and that the grants will be received. Government grants are recognized in profit or loss on a systematic basis over the periods in which the 
Group recognized as expenses the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate.

154

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20183.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Retirement Benefit Schemes
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes and the Mandatory Provident Fund Scheme are charged as expenses when 
employees have rendered service entitling them to the contributions.

For defined benefit retirement benefits plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with 
actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each annual reporting period. Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, 
the effect of the changes to the asset ceiling (if applicable) and the return on plan assets (excluding interest), is reflected immediately in 
the consolidated statement of financial position with a charge or credit recognized in other comprehensive income in the period in which 
they occur. Remeasurement recognized in other comprehensive income is reflected immediately in reserves and will not be reclassified to 
profit or loss.

Defined benefit costs are categorized as follows:

• 

• 

• 

service cost (including current service cost, past service cost, as well as gains and losses on curtailments and settlements);

net interest expense or income; and

remeasurement.

The Group presents the first two components of defined benefit costs in the line item administrative expenses under profit or loss. 
Curtailment gains and losses are accounted for as past service costs. Past service cost is recognized in profit or loss in the period of a plan 
amendment. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or 
asset.

The retirement benefit obligations recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the actual deficit or surplus 
in the Group’s defined benefit plans. Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits 
available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.

Short-term and other Long-term Employee Benefits
Short-term employee benefits are recognized at the undiscounted amount of the benefits expected to be paid as and when employees 
rendered the services. All short-term employee benefits are recognized as an expense unless another HKFRS requires or permits the 
inclusion of the benefit in the cost of an asset.

A liability is recognized for benefits accruing to employees (such as wages and salaries, annual leave and sick leave) after deducting any 
amount already paid.

Liabilities recognized in respect of other long-term employee benefits are measured at the present value of the estimated future cash 
outflows expected to be made by the Group in respect of services provided by employees up to the reporting date. Any changes in the 
liabilities’ carrying amounts resulting from service costs, interests and remeasurements are recognized in profit or loss except to the extent 
that another HKFRS requires or permits their inclusion in the cost of an asset.

4.  Key Sources of Accounting Estimates

In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 3, the directors are required to make estimates and 
assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and 
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in the 
period in which the estimates are revised if the revisions affect only that period, or in the period of the revisions and future periods if the 
revisions affect both current and future periods.

Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty
The following are key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.

155

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20184.  Key Sources of Accounting Estimates (continued)

Estimated Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Useful Lives
Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are impaired requires an estimation of their recoverable 
amounts, which is the higher of the value in use and fair value less costs of disposal of the cash-generating units to which goodwill and 
intangible assets with indefinite useful lives have been allocated. The value in use calculation requires the Group to estimate the future 
cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value. As at 
December 31, 2018, the carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are approximately US$581,215,000 
(2017: US$555,350,000) and approximately US$227,640,000 (2017: US$219,440,000) respectively. Details of the recoverable amount 
calculation are disclosed in Note 20. In determining whether the goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are impaired, 
the management takes into consideration the anticipated revenues and estimated future cash flows from the cash-generating units. 
When the actual revenues and future cash flows are less than expected, a material impairment loss may arise and need to be recognized. 
Management is confident that the carrying amount of the assets will be recovered in full. This situation will be closely monitored and 
adjustments will be made in future periods if future market activity indicates that adjustments are required.

Capitalization, Useful Lives and Estimated Impairment of Deferred Development Costs
Determining the development costs, including the time and costs for individual projects, to be capitalized requires estimations and 
assumptions based on the expected future economic benefits to be generated by the products resulting from these development costs. 
Other important estimations and assumptions in this assessment process are the feasibility of mass production, the distinction between 
research and development and the estimated useful life. As at December 31, 2018, the carrying amounts of deferred development costs 
of the Group are US$338,230,000 (2017: US$316,312,000). The estimation of their useful lives impacts the level of annual amortization 
recorded. The estimation of their useful lives reflects the directors’ best estimate of the periods that future economic benefits will be 
received through the use of the assets. In determining whether the deferred development costs are impaired, the management takes into 
consideration the anticipated revenues and estimated future cash flows from the underlying projects, and the progress of these projects. 
When the actual revenues and future cash flows are less than expected, a material impairment loss may arise and need to be recognized. 
Management is confident that the carrying amount of the assets will be recovered in full. This situation will be closely monitored and 
adjustments will be made in future periods if future market activity indicates that adjustments are required.

Useful Lives and Impairment Assessment of Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and identified impairment losses. As at December 31, 
2018, the Group’s carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is US$790,936,000 (2017: US$688,868,000). The estimation 
of their useful lives impacts the level of annual depreciation expense recorded. The estimated useful life of the equipment placed into 
production reflects the directors’ estimate of the periods that the Group intends to derive future economic benefits from the use of the 
Group’s property, plant and equipment. Property, plant and equipment are evaluated for possible impairment on a specific asset basis or 
in groups of similar assets, as applicable. This process requires management’s estimate of future cash flows generated by each asset or 
group of assets. For any instance where this evaluation process indicates impairment, the appropriate assets’ carrying values are written 
down to their recoverable amount and the amount of the write-down is charged against the results of operations.

Income Taxes
As at December 31, 2018, a deferred tax asset of approximately US$30,608,000 (2017: US$46,523,000) in relation to unused tax losses 
and approximately US$23,535,000 (2017: US$24,196,000) in relation to employee related provisions has been recognized in the Group’s 
consolidated statement of financial position. The realizability of the deferred tax asset mainly depends on whether sufficient taxable profits, 
or taxable temporary differences, will be available in the future. In cases where the actual future taxable profits generated are less than 
expected, a material reversal of the deferred tax asset may arise, which would be recognized in profit or loss for the period in which the 
reversal takes place. During the year, deferred tax assets of approximately US$3,326,000 (2017: US$15,116,000) in relation to unused 
tax losses were utilized.

Provision of ECL for Trade Receivables
The Group uses provision matrix to calculate ECL for the trade receivables. The provision rates are based on internal credit ratings as 
groupings of various debtors that have similar loss patterns. The provision matrix is based on the Group’s historical default rates taking into 
consideration forward-looking information that is reasonable and supportable available without undue costs or effort. At every reporting 
date, the historical observed default rates are reassessed and changes in the forward-looking information are considered.

The provision of ECL is sensitive to changes in estimates. The information about the ECL and the Group’s trade receivables are disclosed 
in Notes 37 and 25 respectively.

156

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 20185.  Segment Information

Information reported to the executive directors of the Company, being the chief operating decision makers, for the purposes of resources 
allocation and assessment of segment performance focuses on the types of goods sold.

The principal categories of goods supplied are “Power Equipment” and “Floor Care and Appliances”. The Group’s operating segments 
under HKFRS 8 are as follows:

1. 

2. 

Power Equipment – sales of power tools, power tool accessories, outdoor products, and outdoor product accessories for consumer, 
trade, professional and industrial users. The products are available under the MILWAUKEE, EMPIRE, AEG, RYOBI and HOMELITE 
brands plus original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) customers.

Floor Care and Appliances – sales of floor care products and floor care accessories under the HOOVER, DIRT DEVIL, VAX and 
ORECK brands plus OEM customers.

Information regarding the above segments is reported below.

Segment Revenue and Results
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenue and results by reportable and operating segments for the year:

For the year ended December 31, 2018

Segment revenue
  External sales

Inter-segment sales

Total segment revenue

Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates.

Result
  Segment results
Interest income

  Finance costs

  Profit before taxation
  Taxation charge

  Profit for the year

Power
Equipment
US$’000

Floor Care
and Appliances
US$’000

Eliminations
US$’000

Consolidated
US$’000

6,009,495
—

1,011,687
1,442

—

(1,442)

7,021,182
—

6,009,495

1,013,129

(1,442)

7,021,182

598,283

9,172

—

607,455
25,204
(38,049)

594,610
(42,070)

552,540

157

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018 
 
5.  Segment Information (continued)

Segment Revenue and Results (continued)
For the year ended December 31, 2017

Segment revenue
  External sales

Inter-segment sales

Total segment revenue

Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates.

Result
  Segment results
Interest income

  Finance costs

  Profit before taxation
  Taxation charge

  Profit for the year

Power
Equipment
US$’000

Floor Care
and Appliances
US$’000

Eliminations
US$’000

Consolidated
US$’000

5,137,697
—

5,137,697

925,936
1,915

927,851

—

(1,915)

6,063,633
—

(1,915)

6,063,633

511,722

7,462

—

519,184
10,792
(24,480)

505,496
(34,972)

470,524

The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in Note 3. Segment results 
represent the profit earned by each segment without the allocation of interest income and finance costs. This is the measure reported to 
the executive directors of the Company for the purpose of resources allocation and performance assessment.

No analysis of the Group’s assets and liabilities by operating segment is disclosed as they are not regularly provided to the chief operating 
decision makers for review.

Other Segment Information
For the year ended December 31, 2018

Amounts included in the measure of segment results:

Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Write down of inventories
Impairment loss on trade receivables, net of reversal
Depreciation and amortization

Power 
Equipment
US$’000

Floor Care 
and Appliances
US$’000

14,415
27,220
20,197
182,200

2,444
364
2,648
56,534

Consolidated
US$’000

16,859
27,584
22,845
238,734

158

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2018 
 
5.  Segment Information (continued)

Other Segment Information (continued)
For the year ended December 31, 2017

Amounts included in the measure of segment results:

Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Write down of inventories
Impairment loss on trade receivables, net of reversal
Depreciation and amortization

Power 
Equipment
US$’000

Floor Care 
and Appliances
US$’000

11,593
5,304
17,566
157,192

921
1,645
889
51,981

Consolidated
US$’000

12,514
6,949
18,455
209,173

Revenue from Major Products
The following is an analysis of the Group’s disaggregated revenue from its major products:

Power Equipment
Floor Care and Appliances

Total

2018
US$’000

6,009,495
1,011,687

2017
US$’000

5,137,697
925,936

7,021,182

6,063,633

Geographical Information
The Group’s revenue from external customers by geographical location, determined based on the location of the customer and information 
about its non-current assets, by geographical location, determined based on the location of the group entity owning the assets are detailed 
below:

North America
Europe
Other countries

Total

Revenue from external customers

Non-Current Assets*

2018
US$’000

5,371,768
1,071,056
578,358

2017
US$’000

4,625,483
918,833
519,317

2018
US$’000

1,037,973
113,851
869,603

2017
US$’000

896,578
121,978
836,922

7,021,182

6,063,633

2,021,427

1,855,478

* 

Non-current assets exclude interests in associates, financial assets at FVTPL, derivative financial instruments and deferred tax assets.

Information about Major Customer
During the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Group’s largest customer contributed total revenue of US$3,194,744,000 
(2017: US$2,760,045,000), of which US$3,143,450,000 (2017: US$2,688,536,000) was under the Power Equipment segment and 
US$51,294,000 (2017: US$71,509,000) was under the Floor Care and Appliances segment. There is no other customer contributing 
more than 10% of total revenue.

159

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20186.  Revenue

Revenue represents the fair value of the net amounts received and receivable for goods sold by the Group to outside customers, less 
returns and allowances, and commission and royalty income received during the year and is analyzed as follows:

Sales of goods
Commission and royalty income

2018
US$’000

7,009,861
11,321

2017
US$’000

6,042,103
21,530

7,021,182

6,063,633

Revenue from sales of goods is recognized at a point in time. Commission and royalty income is recognized over time.

The Group sells products mainly to the wholesale market. Revenue is recognized when control of the goods has transferred, being when 
the goods have been shipped to the wholesaler’s specific location (delivery).

Following delivery, the wholesaler has full discretion over the manner of distribution and price to sell the goods, has the primary 
responsibility when on selling the goods and bears the risks of obsolescence and loss in relation to the goods.

Revenue is recognized for sales which are considered highly probable that a significant reversal in the cumulative revenue recognized will 
not occur. A contract liability is recognized for sales in which revenue has yet been recognized. The Group’s right to recover the product 
when customers exercise their right to return products is recognized as a right to returned goods asset and a corresponding adjustment to 
cost of sales.

As at December 31, 2018, no material revenue for unsatisfied contracts to be recognized by the Group are over one year. As permitted by 
HKFRS 15, the transaction price allocated to these unsatisfied contracts is not disclosed.

7.  Other Income

Other income in both 2018 and 2017 mainly comprises of the sale of scrap materials and claims and reimbursements from customers 
and vendors.

8. 

Interest Income
Interest income represents interest earned on bank deposits.

9.  Finance Costs

Interests on:
  Bank borrowings
  Obligations under finance leases

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

37,407
642

38,049

23,699
781

24,480

160

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201810. Taxation Charge

Current tax:
  Hong Kong Profits Tax
  Underprovision in prior years

  Overseas taxation
  Overprovision in prior years

Deferred tax (Note 42):
  Current year
  Deferred tax asset impairment
  Change in tax rates

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

(1,088)
(2,057)

(3,145)

(30,575)
404

(30,171)

17,544
(26,969)
671

(8,754)

(42,070)

(2,035)
(1,542)

(3,577)

(39,847)
59,381

19,534

49,093
(40,374)
(59,648)

(50,929)

(34,972)

Hong Kong Profits Tax is calculated at 16.5% of the estimated assessable profit for both years.

Taxation arising in other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.

The substantial deferred tax expense in 2017 was the result of the change in marginal United States (“US”) Federal tax rates from 35% 
to 21% that triggered a substantial write-down of the 2017 US net deferred tax assets amounted to US$59,552,000 which was primarily 
comprised of tax loss carryforwards.

The tax charge for the year is reconciled as follows:

Profit before taxation

Tax at Hong Kong Profits Tax rate
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in 
  other jurisdictions
Tax effect of expenses not deductible for tax purposes
Tax effect of income not taxable for tax purposes
Utilization of deductible temporary differences previously 
  not recognized
Tax effect of tax losses and deductible temporary 
  differences not recognized
Deferred tax asset impairment
(Under) over provision in respect of prior years
Tax effect of changes in tax rates

Tax charge for the year

Details of deferred tax are set out in Note 42.

2018
US$’000

594,610

2018
%

2017
US$’000

505,496

2017
%

(98,111)

16.5%

(83,407)

16.5%

74,295
(6,537)
8,779

(12.5%)
1.1%
(1.4%)

79,537
(15,571)
22,386

(15.7%)
3.0%
(4.4%)

3,326

(0.6%)

2,100

(0.4%)

4,129
(26,969)
(1,653)
671

(42,070)

(0.7%)
4.5%
0.3%
(0.1%)

7.1%

2,166
(40,374)
57,839
(59,648)

(34,972)

(0.5%)
8.0%
(11.4%)
11.8%

6.9%

161

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201811. Profit for the Year

Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging (crediting):

Amortization of intangible assets
Amortization of lease prepayments
Auditors’ remuneration
Cost of inventories recognized as an expense
Depreciation and amortization on property, plant and equipment
  Owned assets
  Assets held under finance leases
Fair value (gain) loss on foreign currency forward contracts
Fair value loss (gain) on listed equity securities
Fair value gain on club membership debentures
Fair value loss on derivative financial instruments
Impairment loss on trade receivables, net of reversal
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Gain on disposal of listed equity securities
Net exchange gain
Operating lease expenses recognized in respect of:
  Motor vehicles
  Plant and machinery
  Premises
  Other assets
Unconditional government grants
Write off of intangible assets
Write down of inventories
Staff costs
  Directors’ remuneration

  Fees
  Other emoluments

Other staff costs
Retirement benefits scheme contributions 

(other than those included in the Directors’ emoluments)

  Defined contribution plans
  Defined benefit plans (Note 41)

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

108,758
747
3,267
4,406,605

93,938
732
3,352
3,837,426

126,396
2,833
(17,954)
5,570
(114)
117
22,845
16,859
(236)
(20,788)

23,825
11,910
43,932
2,632
(382)
3,236
27,584

315
41,205

41,520
856,920

111,363
3,140
8,920
(2,447)
—

428
18,455
12,514
—

(1,999)

20,448
10,058
43,356
2,820
(315)
3,760
6,949

273
42,913

43,186
767,285

11,979
2,277

10,286
1,925

912,696

822,682

Staff costs disclosed above do not include an amount of US$149,073,000 (2017: US$140,125,000) of staff costs incurred relating to 
research and development activities.

162

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2018 
 
 
12. Directors’ Emoluments

The emoluments paid or payable to each of the twelve (2017: twelve) directors, disclosed pursuant to the applicable Listing Rules and CO, 
were as follows:

For the year ended December 31, 2018

Other emoluments

Basic
salaries and 
allowances
US$’000

Contributions
to retirement
benefits
schemes
US$’000

Fees
US$’000

Bonus
US$’000

Share-based
payments
US$’000

Total
US$’000

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill (Note i)
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill (Note i)
Mr Joseph Galli Jr (Note i)
Mr Kin Wah Chan (Note i)
Mr Chi Chung Chan (Note i)
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung GBS BBS JP (Note ii)
Mr Camille Jojo (Note ii)
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE (Note iii)
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann (Note iii)
Mr Peter David Sullivan (Note iii)
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung (Note iii)
Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse (Note iii)

Total

—
—
—
—
—

45
45
45
45
45
45
45

315

1,671
362
1,696
722
719
6
13
19
44
47
48
31

5,378

2
2
180
2
2
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

188

10,195
1,960
14,100
2,136
2,486
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

30,877

1,295
505
827
505
505
150
231
150
150
150
150
144

4,762

For the year ended December 31, 2017

Other emoluments

Basic
salaries and 
allowances
US$’000

Contributions
to retirement
benefits
schemes
US$’000

Fees
US$’000

Bonus
US$’000

Share-based
payments
US$’000

—
—
—
—
—

39
39
39
39
39
39
39

273

1,671
353
1,661
722
719
6
13
15
43
45
47
10

5,305

2
2
180
2
2
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

188

11,815
1,420
13,100
1,732
2,595
338
—
—
—
—
—
—

31,000

1,268
348
3,263
348
348
117
199
117
117
117
117
61

6,420

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill (Note i)
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill (Note i)
Mr Joseph Galli Jr (Note i)
Mr Kin Wah Chan (Note i)
Mr Chi Chung Chan (Note i)
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung GBS BBS JP (Note ii)
Mr Camille Jojo (Note ii)
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE (Note iii)
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann (Note iii)
Mr Peter David Sullivan (Note iii)
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung (Note iii)
Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse (Note iii)

Total

13,163
2,829
16,803
3,365
3,712
201
289
214
239
242
243
220

41,520

Total
US$’000

14,756
2,123
18,204
2,804
3,664
500
251
171
199
201
203
110

43,186

163

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201812. Directors’ Emoluments (continued)

Note i:  The individuals represent the Executive Directors of the Company and the Group. The Executive Directors’ emoluments shown above were mainly for their 

services in connection with management of the affairs of the Company and the Group.

Note ii: The individuals represent the Non-Executive Directors of the Company. The Non-Executive Directors’ emoluments shown above were mainly for their services as 

directors of the Company or its subsidiaries.

Note iii: The individuals represent the independent Non-executive Directors of the Company. The Independent Non-executive Directors’ emoluments shown above were 

mainly for their services as directors of the Company.

The bonuses were based on past performance of the Group.

The above emoluments include the value of share options granted and shares awarded to certain directors under the Company’s share 
option schemes and share award scheme, respectively, as estimated at the date of grant and award. Details of these benefits in kind are 
disclosed under the sections “Share Options” and “Share Award Scheme” in Notes 47 and 48 respectively

13. Employees’ Emoluments

Of the five individuals with the highest emoluments in the Group, four (2017: three) were directors of the Company whose emoluments are 
included in Note 12 above. The emoluments of the remaining one (2017: two) individuals for the year ended December 31, 2018 were as 
follows:

Basic salaries and allowances
Contributions to retirement benefits schemes
Bonus
Other benefit
Share-based payments

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

773
191
4,000
59
—

5,023

1,265
152
6,366
59
—

7,842

The emoluments of these one (2017: two) highest paid individuals for the year ended December 31, 2018 were within the following 
bands:

HK$

24,000,001 to 24,500,000
36,500,001 to 37,000,000
39,000,001 to 39,500,000

No. of persons

2018

2017

—
—

1

1
1
—

During each of the two years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, no emoluments have been paid by the Group to the five highest paid 
individuals, including directors, as an inducement to join or upon joining the Group or as compensation for loss of office. No director has 
waived any emoluments during those years.

164

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201814. Dividends

Dividends recognized as distributions during the year:
Final dividend paid:
  2017: HK39.75 cents (approximately US5.12 cents)

(2016: HK30.00 cents (approximately US3.86 cents)) per share

93,827

70,778

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

Interim dividend paid:
  2018: HK38.00 cents (approximately US4.89 cents)

(2017: HK27.75 cents (approximately US3.57 cents)) per share

89,595

183,422

65,507

136,285

The final dividend of HK50.00 cents (approximately US6.44 cents) per share with a total of approximately US$117,666,000 in respect 
of the year ended December 31, 2018 (2017: final dividend of HK39.75 cents (approximately US5.12 cents) per share in respect of the 
year ended December 31, 2017) has been proposed by the directors and is subject to approval by the shareholders in the Annual General 
Meeting.

15. Earnings per Share

The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to Owners of the Company is based on the following data:

Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share:
  Profit for the year attributable to Owners of the Company

Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
  Share options
  Share award

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

552,463

470,425

1,831,782,645

1,833,278,393

5,678,803
505,165

5,403,141
147,754

Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share

1,837,966,613

1,838,829,288

The computation of diluted earnings per share does not assume the exercise of certain of the Company’s share options because the 
exercise prices of those options were higher than the average market price of the Company’s shares for the year ended December 31, 
2018.

165

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018 
 
 
 
16. Property, Plant and Equipment

Land and 
buildings 
(Note)
US$’000

Leasehold 
improvements
US$’000

182,384
4,226
895
(23,450)
29,184

193,239

(2,047)
7,530
1,280
(14)
5,611

73,164
3,322
2,072
(178)
10,811

89,191

(2,911)
3,808
—

(1,860)
1,188

Office 
equipment, 
furniture 
and fixtures
US$’000

209,600
7,218
10,783
(19,020)
17,066

Plant 
and 
machinery
US$’000

279,352
14,615
14,386
(1,714)
15,507

225,647

322,146

(3,709)
12,315
165
(10,207)
13,406

(10,067)
23,110
1,157
(17,572)
17,971

Motor 
vehicles
US$’000

5,744
212
970
(765)
110

6,271

(161)
590
—

(1,034)
225

Moulds 
and 
tooling
US$’000

290,952
4,497
15,795
(59,187)
60,003

312,060

(4,109)
2,226
273
(36,647)
69,822

Cost
At January 1, 2017
Currency realignment
Additions
Disposals
Reclassification

At December 31, 2017

Currency realignment
Additions
Acquisition of a subsidiary (Note 43)
Disposals
Reclassification

At December 31, 2018

205,599

89,416

237,617

336,745

5,891

343,625

Depreciation and Impairment
At January 1, 2017
Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on disposals

At December 31, 2017

Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on disposals

42,656
1,008
6,009
(18,450)

31,223

(734)
6,389
(2)

31,449
2,447
7,717
(16)

41,597

(1,295)
6,117
(1,802)

144,931
4,556
16,795
(18,440)

140,029
5,731
27,338
(482)

147,842

172,616

(2,200)
22,227
(7,732)

(5,141)
29,083
(12,947)

3,826
202
878
(638)

4,268

(104)
782
(898)

182,060
2,422
55,752
(50,454)

189,780

(2,217)
63,693
(29,665)

Vessels
US$’000

Aircraft
US$’000

Construction 
in progress
US$’000

Total
US$’000

1,148,486
35,413
205,284
(110,670)
—

104,921
1,323
160,383
(6,356)
(132,681)

127,590

1,278,513

(856)
173,635
87
(4,442)
(108,223)

(23,860)
259,234
2,962
(71,776)
—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—

31,283
—
—
—

31,283

187,791

1,445,073

—
—
—
—

—

—

234
—

234

—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—

—

547,256
16,366
114,503
(88,480)

589,645

(11,691)
129,229
(53,046)

654,137

2,369
—
—
—
—

2,369

—

4,737
—
—
—

7,106

2,305
—

14
—

2,319

—

704
—

At December 31, 2018

36,876

44,617

160,137

183,611

4,048

221,591

3,023

Carrying amounts
At December 31, 2018

At December 31, 2017

168,723

162,016

44,799

47,594

77,480

153,134

77,805

149,530

1,843

2,003

122,034

122,280

4,083

31,049

187,791

790,936

50

—

127,590

688,868

Note:  Buildings with a carrying amount of US$18,485,000 (2017: US$20,633,000) are erected on leasehold land that is presented as lease prepayments on the 

consolidated statement of financial position.

166

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201816. Property, Plant and Equipment (continued)

The above property, plant and equipment, other than construction in progress, are depreciated on a straight-line basis, at the following 
rates per annum:

Freehold land
Leasehold land
Buildings
Leasehold improvements
Office equipment, furniture and fixtures
Plant and machinery
Motor vehicles
Moulds and tooling
Vessels
Aircraft

Nil
Shorter of lease term or useful life
21⁄5% – 62⁄3%
21⁄2% – 331⁄3%
10% – 331⁄3%
9% – 25%
10% – 331⁄3%
18% – 331⁄3%
20% – 25%
10%

The carrying amounts of properties shown above comprise:

Land and buildings situated outside Hong Kong are analyzed as follows:
  Freehold
  Leasehold

Land and buildings situated in Hong Kong

2018
US$’000

85,310
18,485

103,795
64,928

168,723

2017
US$’000

75,058
20,633

95,691
66,325

162,016

The carrying amounts of the Group’s property, plant and equipment include amounts of approximately US$715,000  
(2017: US$10,665,000) in respect of assets held under finance leases.

The gross carrying amount of the Group’s property, plant and equipment includes amounts of approximately US$290,105,000  
(2017: US$283,554,000) in respect of fully depreciated property, plant and equipment that are still in use.

167

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018US$’000

35,562
2,420

37,982

(2,054)
27

35,955

5,981
433
732

7,146

(413)
747

7,480

28,475

30,836

US$’000

553,194
2,156

555,350
(782)
26,647

581,215

17. Lease Prepayments

Cost
At January 1, 2017
Currency realignment

At December 31, 2017

Currency realignment
Additions

At December 31, 2018

Amortization
At January 1, 2017
Currency realignment
Provided for the year

At December 31, 2017

Currency realignment
Provided for the year

At December 31, 2018

Carrying amounts
At December 31, 2018

At December 31, 2017

All lease prepayments are related to leases outside Hong Kong.

18. Goodwill

At January 1, 2017
Currency realignment

At December 31, 2017
Currency realignment
Arising on acquisition of a subsidiary (Note 43)

At December 31, 2018

Particulars regarding impairment testing of goodwill are disclosed in Note 20.

168

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201819. Intangible Assets

Deferred
development
costs
US$’000

Patents
US$’000

Trademarks
US$’000

Manufacturing
know-how
US$’000

Retailer and
service
relationships
US$’000

Non
compete
agreement
US$’000

Cost
At January 1, 2017
Currency realignment
Additions
Written off in the year

At December 31, 2017

Currency realignment
Additions
Acquisition of a subsidiary (Note 43)
Written off in the year

At December 31, 2018

Amortization
At January 1, 2017
Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on write off

At December 31, 2017

Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on write off

729,782
222
108,965
(37,479)

801,490

(17)
124,489
—

(9,414)

916,548

432,521
181
86,780
(34,304)

485,178

(2)
99,542
(6,400)

67,610
31
22,450
(1,252)

88,839

—

11,150
47
(222)

99,814

47,573
1
5,220
(699)

52,095

—

7,975
—

234,290
—
—

(78)

234,212

—
—

8,200
   — 

242,412

12,723
—

461
(46)

13,138

—

453
—

At December 31, 2018

578,318

60,070

13,591

453
—
—
—

453

—
—

1,300
—

1,753

453
—
—
—

453

—

33
—

486

10,500
—
—
—

10,500

—
—

5,900
—

16,400

3,614
—

592
—

4,206

—

690
—

4,896

10,634
—
—

(10,634)

—

—
—

1,300
—

1,300

9,749
—

885
(10,634)

—

—

65
—

65

Carrying amounts
At December 31, 2018

At December 31, 2017

338,230

316,312

39,744

36,744

228,821

221,074

1,267

—

11,504

6,294

1,235

—

Total
US$’000

1,053,269
253
131,415
(49,443)

1,135,494

(17)
135,639
16,747
(9,636)

1,278,227

506,633
182
93,938
(45,683)

555,070

(2)
108,758
(6,400)

657,426

620,801

580,424

The retailer and service relationships were acquired through business combinations which related to the relationships with retailers and 
service centers.

Deferred development costs are internally generated by capitalizing the costs pertaining to development of new or enhancement of existing 
products.

169

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201819. Intangible Assets (continued)

Included in trademarks of the Group, US$227,640,000 (2017: US$219,440,000) are trademarks as considered by the management 
of the Group as having indefinite useful lives because they are expected to contribute to the Group’s net cash inflows indefinitely. The 
trademarks will not be amortized until their useful lives are determined to be finite. Instead they will be tested for impairment annually and 
whenever there is an indication that they may be impaired. Particulars of the impairment testing are disclosed in Note 20.

The above intangible assets, other than trademarks with indefinite useful lives, are amortized on a straight-line basis, at the following rates 
per annum:

Deferred development costs
Patents
Trademarks with finite useful lives
Manufacturing know-how
Retailer and service relationships
Non compete agreement

20% – 331⁄3%
10% – 25%
62⁄3%
10%
5% – 62⁄3%
20%

20. Impairment Testing on Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Useful Lives

As explained in Note 5, the Group uses the types of goods sold for operating segment information. For the purpose of impairment testing, 
goodwill and trademarks with indefinite useful lives set out in Notes 18 and 19, the majority of the amounts have been allocated to five 
major individual cash-generating units (“CGUs”), including four units in the Power Equipment segment and one unit in the Floor Care and 
Appliances segment. The carrying amounts of goodwill and trademarks as at December 31, 2018 allocated to these units are as follows:

Power Equipment – MET
Power Equipment – HCP
Power Equipment – Drebo
Power Equipment – Baja
Floor Care and Appliances – RAM/Hoover/VAX
Others

Goodwill

Trademarks

2018
US$’000

443,264
7,492
22,128
9,017
75,748
23,566

581,215

2017
US$’000

416,617
7,492
22,909
9,017
75,748
23,567

555,350

2018
US$’000

126,607
30,648
—

3,200
67,179
6

227,640

2017
US$’000

118,407
30,648
—

3,200
67,179
6

219,440

No impairment of goodwill and trademarks have been recognized for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.

The basis of the recoverable amounts of the above CGUs and their major underlying assumptions are summarized below:

Power Equipment – MET (“MET”)
The recoverable amount of MET’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation 
uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period and a discount rate of 10.0% 
(2017: 10.0%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for MET are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including 
sales, gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimations are based on MET’s past 
performance, management’s expectations of the market development, the success in new products launched, the success in reducing the 
working capital requirements and the success of the cost cutting strategy implemented by the Group. Cash flow projections beyond the 
5-year period are extrapolated using a steady 3.0% (2017: 3.0%) growth rate. Management believes that any reasonably possible change 
in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of MET’s goodwill and intangibles to exceed the recoverable amounts.

170

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201820. Impairment Testing on Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Useful Lives (continued)

Power Equipment – HCP (“HCP”)
The recoverable amount of HCP’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation 
uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a discount rate of 11.0% 
(2017: 11.0%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for HCP are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including 
sales, gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimations are based on HCP’s past 
performance, management’s expectations of the market development, the success in new products launched and the success of the 
cost cutting strategy implemented. Cash flow projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated without considering any growth rate. 
Management believes that any reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of HCP’s 
goodwill and intangibles to exceed the aggregate recoverable amounts.

Power Equipment – Drebo (“Drebo”)
The recoverable amount of Drebo’s goodwill has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation uses cash flow 
projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a discount rate of 11.0% (2017: 11.0%) 
per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for Drebo are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including 
sales, gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimations are based on Drebo’s 
past performance, management’s expectations of the market development, the success in new products launched and the cost cutting 
strategies implemented. Cash flow projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated using a 1.0% (2017: 1.0%) growth rate. 
Management believes that any reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of Drebo’s 
goodwill to exceed the recoverable amount.

Power Equipment – Baja (“Baja”)
The recoverable amount of Baja’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation uses 
cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a discount rate of 12.0% (2017: 
12.0%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for Baja are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including 
sales, gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimations are based on Baja’s past 
performance, management’s expectations of the market development and the success of the cost cutting strategy implemented. Cash 
flow projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated using a steady 2.0% (2017: 2.0%) growth rate. Management believes that any 
reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of Baja’s goodwill and intangibles to exceed 
the aggregate recoverable amounts.

Floor Care and Appliances – RAM/Hoover/VAX (“RAM/Hoover/VAX”)
The recoverable amount of RAM/Hoover/VAX’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That 
calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a discount rate 
of 14.0% (2017: 14.0%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for RAM/Hoover/VAX are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows 
including sales, gross margin, operating expenses, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. The assumptions and 
estimations are based on RAM/Hoover/VAX’s past performance, management’s expectations of the market development, the success in 
reducing the working capital requirements and the success of the cost cutting strategies implemented. Cash flow projections beyond the 
5-year period are extrapolated using a steady 2.0% (2017: 2.0%) growth rate. Management believes that any reasonably possible change 
in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of RAM/Hoover/VAX’s goodwill and intangibles to exceed the aggregate 
recoverable amounts.

171

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201821. Interests in Associates

Unlisted shares, at cost less impairment loss recognized
Amounts due from associates

2018
US$’000

1,470
2,194

3,664

2017
US$’000

—

2,780

2,780

Particulars of the principal associate as at December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 are set out in Note 54.

The amounts due from associates are unsecured, non-interest bearing and are repayable on demand.

At the end of the reporting period, amongst the associates, the Group held 40.8% of the shares of Gimelli International (Holdings) 
Limited and its subsidiaries (together the “Gimelli Group companies”). The Group has discontinued recognizing its share of the losses 
of the Gimelli Group companies. The unrecognized share of profit (loss) for the year and cumulatively, extracted from the relevant 
unaudited management accounts of the associates, are US$504,000 (2017: US$424,000) and (US$3,451,000) (2017: (US$3,955,000)) 
respectively.

In September 2018, the Group acquired a 49% equity interest in Wuerth Master Power Tools Limited “Wuerth” for the consideration of 
US$1,470,000. Wuerth is engaged in the manufacture and sale of power equipment.

22. AFS Investments

Unlisted equity securities and club membership debentures, 
  at cost less impairment loss recognized

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

—

3,697

As at December 31, 2017, all AFS investments mainly represented investments in unlisted equity securities and club membership 
debentures. They were measured at cost less impairment at the reporting date because the range of reasonable fair value estimates was 
so significant that the directors of the Company were of the opinion that their fair values cannot be measured reliably.

Due to the adoption of HKFRS 9, the AFS investments are reclassified as financial assets at FVTPL on January 1, 2018 (Note 23).

23. Financial assets at FVTPL

Club membership debentures
Unlisted equity securities
Listed equity securities
Other

Analyzed for reporting purposes as:
Current assets
Non-current assets

Note

(a)
(b)
(c)

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2,316
3,000
32,828
45

38,189

32,828
5,361

38,189

—
—
—
—

—

—
—

—

Note:

(a) 

As at December 31, 2018, the club membership debentures measured at fair value with reference to recent transaction prices for similar comparables with 
similar characteristic.

(b) 

As at December 31, 2018, the unlisted equity securities represented the interest in a private company incorporated in the US. The fair value was arrived at with 
reference to the latest purchase price per share arising on subscribing for the shares in private market.

(c) 

The Group’s listed equity securities were carried at fair value using the market bid prices on the reporting date.

172

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201824. Inventories

Raw materials
Work in progress
Finished goods

25. Trade and Other Receivables

Trade receivables
Less: Allowances for credit losses

Other receivables

2018
US$’000

112,049
41,723
1,612,950

2017
US$’000

87,481
37,195
1,342,744

1,766,722

1,467,420

2018
US$’000

1,140,923
(51,760)

1,089,163
37,635

2017
US$’000

1,143,319
(37,114)

1,106,205
30,671

1,126,798

1,136,876

As at December 31, 2018 and January 1, 2018, all trade receivables are derived from contracts with customers.

The ageing analysis of trade receivables, net of allowances for credit losses, presented on the basis of the revenue recognition date, which 
is usually the invoice date, at the end of the reporting period is as follows:

0 to 60 days
61 to 120 days
121 days or above

Total trade receivables

2018
US$’000

680,424
346,055
62,684

2017
US$’000

753,407
276,964
75,834

1,089,163

1,106,205

Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses an internal credit scoring system to assess the potential customer’s credit quality and 
defines credit limits by customer. Limits and scoring attributed to customers are reviewed regularly. Trade receivables that are neither past 
due nor impaired have the best credit scoring attributable under the internal credit scoring system used by the Group.

As at December 31, 2018, included in the Group’s trade receivables balance are debtors with aggregate carrying amount of 
US$268,543,000 which are past due as at the reporting date. Out of the past due balances, US$218,511,000 is not considered as in 
default as they are related to a number of independent customers that have a good payment track record with the Group.

As at December 31, 2017, included in the Group’s trade receivables balance were debtors with a carrying amount of US$159,086,000 
which were past due at the reporting date for which the Group had not provided for impairment loss. The Group did not hold any collateral 
over these balances. The average age of these receivables was 59 days.

The Group had a policy of allowing credit periods ranging mainly from 30 days to 120 days. Trade receivables that were past due but not 
provided for impairment loss were related to a number of independent customers that had good payment track records with the Group. 
The management believed that no impairment allowance was necessary in respect of these balances as there had not been a significant 
change in credit quality of the relevant customers and the balances were still considered fully recoverable.

173

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201825. Trade and Other Receivables (continued)

Ageing of Trade Receivables which were past due but not Impaired

1 – 60 days
61 – 120 days
121 – 365 days
1 – 2 years
Over 2 years

Total

Movement in the Allowance for Doubtful Debts

Balance at beginning of the year
Currency realignment
Impairment losses recognized on receivables
Amounts written off as uncollectible
Amounts recovered during the year

Balance at end of the year

2017
US$’000

130,324
12,656
15,271
730
105

159,086

2017
US$’000

20,025
968
21,940
(2,334)
(3,485)

37,114

Included in the allowance for doubtful debts were individually impaired trade receivables amounting to US$37,114,000 as at December 
31, 2017 which had the worst credit scoring attributable under the internal credit scoring system used by the Group. The Group did not 
hold any collateral over these balances.

Ageing of Impaired Trade Receivables (by Invoice Date)

0 – 120 days
121 – 365 days
1 – 2 years
Over 2 years

Total

2017
US$’000

3,641
19,169
12,554
1,750

37,114

Details of impairment assessment of trade and other receivables for the year ended December 31, 2018 are set out in Note 37.

In accordance with receivables purchase agreements, certain trade receivables were factored to banks (the “Factored Trade 
Receivables”). As the Group still retained the risks associated in respect of default payments, the Group has continued to recognize the 
Factored Trade Receivables in the consolidated statement of financial position. At the end of the reporting period, proceeds from the 
Factored Trade Receivables of approximately US$75,000,000 (2017: US$75,000,000) were recognized as liabilities and included in 
“Unsecured borrowings – due within one year” in the consolidated statement of financial position.

174

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201826. Bills Receivable

All the Group’s bills receivable at December 31, 2018 and 2017 are due within 120 days.

27. Trade Receivables from an Associate

The trade receivables from an associate are due within 120 days.

28. Derivative Financial Instruments

Assets
Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment
Foreign currency forward contracts – under hedge accounting
Foreign currency forward contracts – not under hedge accounting

Liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts – under hedge accounting
Foreign currency forward contracts – not under hedge accounting

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

9,441
33,477
311

43,229

135
577

712

9,558
3,641
157

13,356

43,830
—

43,830

Acquisition Right of Certain Property, Plant and Equipment
As at December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Group owned a right to acquire certain property, plant and equipment which was acquired 
as part of the acquisition of the Oreck business from the Oreck Bankruptcy Estate. The right is expected to be exercised in 2032. The 
fair value of the property, plant and equipment was US$9,441,000 valued on September 30, 2018 (2017: US$9,558,000 valued on 
September 30, 2017) by Duff & Phelps, LLC., an independent valuer not related to the Group.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts
The fair values of foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from 
quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts under Hedge Accounting
At the end of the reporting period, the Group had the following foreign currency forward contracts designated as highly effective hedging 
instruments in order to manage the Group’s foreign currency exposure in relation to future foreign currency sales. The terms of the foreign 
exchange contracts have been negotiated to match the terms of the respective designated hedged items.

175

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201828. Derivative Financial Instruments (continued)

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts under Hedge Accounting (continued)
Major terms of the foreign currency forward contracts under hedge accounting are as follows:

2018

Notional amounts in millions

Sell AUD 129M, Buy US$
Sell EUR 312M, Buy US$
Sell US$60.2M, Buy RMB
Sell AUD 276.6M, Buy USD
Sell USD12.8M, Buy EUR
Sell GBP 33M, Buy EUR
Sell CHF 3.3M, Buy EUR
Sell SEK 48M, Buy EUR
Buy US$68M, Sell GBP
Buy US$22M, Sell EUR

2017

Maturity

January 30, 2019 to December 30, 2019
January 30, 2019 to December 30, 2019
January 30, 2019
January 30, 2019 to December 30, 2019
January 7, 2019 to August 23, 2019
January 17, 2019 to November 14, 2019
January 17, 2019 to December 12, 2019
January 17, 2019 to March 14, 2019
January 4, 2019 to December 2, 2019
January 4, 2019 to December 16, 2019

Notional amounts in millions

Maturity

Sell EUR 601M, Buy US$
Sell US$170M, Buy RMB
Sell GBP 30M, Buy EUR
Sell PLN 30M, Buy EUR
Buy US$223M, Sell AUD
Buy US$66M, Sell GBP
Buy US$34.5M, Sell EUR
Buy US$163M, Sell CA$
Buy US$3M, Sell KRW

January 31, 2018 to December 30, 2019
September 27, 2018 to December 28, 2018
January 16, 2018 to December 11, 2018
January 18, 2018 to May 17, 2018
January 31, 2018 to December 31, 2018
January 2, 2018 to December 21, 2018
January 12, 2018 to December 28, 2018
January 31, 2018 to October 31, 2018
January 10, 2018 to February 19, 2018

As at December 31, 2018, a fair value gain of US$51,730,000 (December 31, 2017: fair value loss of US$47,485,000) has been 
recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in reserves and is expected to be reclassified to profit or loss.

During the year, a fair value loss of US$28,784,000 (2017: gain of US$18,152,000) was reclassified from reserves to profit or loss.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts not under hedge accounting
Major terms of the foreign currency forward contracts not under hedge accounting are as follows:

2018

Notional amounts in millions

Maturity

Buy EUR 4.2M, Sell AUD

Buy US$9M, Sell AUD

Buy US$34.5M, Sell NZD

2017

Notional amounts in millions

Buy US$12M, Sell NZD
Buy EUR 0.3M, Sell AUD

176

January 21, 2019 to December 20, 2019

January 22, 2019 to December 19, 2019

January 22, 2019 to December 20, 2019

Maturity

April 19, 2018 to December 20, 2018
January 16, 2018

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201829. Held-for-Trading Investments

The Group’s held-for-trading investments at December 31, 2017 were carried at fair value using the market bid prices on the reporting 
date.

Held-for-trading investments include:

Equity securities:
–  Listed shares

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

—

—

32,293

32,293

Due to the adoption of HKFRS 9, the held-for-trading investments are reclassified as financial assets at FVTPL as at January 1, 2018 
(Note 23).

30. Bank Balances, Deposits and Cash

Bank balances carry interest at market rates which range from 0.001% to 4.20% (2017: 0.01% to 2.02%) per annum.

31. Trade and other Payables

The ageing analysis of trade payables presented based on the invoice date at the end of the reporting period is as follows:

0 to 60 days
61 to 120 days
121 days or above

Total trade payables
Other payables

2018
US$’000

822,557
248,261
15,006

1,085,824
835,628

2017
US$’000

629,355
171,577
7,719

808,651
765,751

1,921,452

1,574,402

The credit period on the purchase of goods ranges from 30 days to 120 days (2017: 30 days to 120 days). The Group has financial risk 
management policies in place to ensure that all payables are settled within the credit time frame.

32. Bills Payable

All the Group’s bills payable at December 31, 2018 and 2017 are due within 120 days.

177

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201833. Warranty Provision

At January 1, 2017
Currency realignment
Additional provision in the year
Utilization of provision

At December 31, 2017
Adoption of HKFRS 15 (Note 2)

At January 1, 2018 (as restated)
Currency realignment
Additional provision in the year
Acquisition of a subsidiary
Utilization of provision

At December 31, 2018

US$’000

80,088
3,353
114,481
(100,654)

97,268
(3,004)

94,264
(2,601)
135,423
39
(121,910)

105,215

The warranty provision represents management’s best estimate of the Group’s outstanding liabilities on products sold, based on prior 
experience and industry averages for defective products. It is expected that the majority of this expenditure will be incurred in the next 
financial year.

34. Obligations under Finance Leases

It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its land and buildings, plant and machinery and fixtures and equipment under finance leases, 
with lease terms ranging from 2.5 years to 20 years. Interest rates underlying all obligations under finance leases are fixed at the respective 
contract dates ranging from 6.00% to 8.54% (December 31, 2017: 5.06% to 8.98%) per annum. No arrangements have been entered 
into that include contingent rental payments.

The maturity of obligations under finance leases is as follows:

Amounts payable under finance leases:
  Within one year

In more than one year but not more than two years
In more than two years but not more than three years
In more than three years but not more than four years
In more than four years but not more than five years

  More than five years

Less: future finance charges

Present value of lease obligations

Less: Amount due within one year shown 

  under current liabilities

Amount due after one year

Minimum lease payments

Present value of minimum
lease payments

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

356
305
286
152
63
—

1,162
(149)

1,013

3,518
3,421
3,300
2,459
315
63

13,076
(1,459)

11,617

288
260
261
142
62
—

1,013
—

1,013

(288)

725

2,895
2,970
3,028
2,361
301
62

11,617
—

11,617

(2,895)

8,722

The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by charges over the leased assets.

178

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
35. Discounted Bills with Recourse

Bills discounted with banks at an effective interest rate of 2.76% per annum (2017: 2.06% per annum) have maturity profiles of less than 
120 days.

36. Capital Risk Management

The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximizing the return 
to stakeholders through the optimization of the debt and equity balance. The Group’s overall strategy remains unchanged from prior years.

The capital structure of the Group consists of debt (which includes borrowings, discounted bills with recourse and obligations under 
finance leases), net of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to Owners of the Company, comprising issued share capital, 
reserves and retained profits.

Gearing Ratio
The Group’s management reviews the capital structure on a semi-annual basis. As part of this review, the management considers the cost 
of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital. The Group has a target gearing ratio of not exceeding 35% determined as the 
proportion of net debt to equity. The Group will continue to execute very disciplined control and management of its working capital and 
generate free cash inflows through the growth of the business.

The gearing ratio at the year end was as follows:

Bank balances, deposits and cash
Debt (i)

Net cash
Equity (ii)
Net debt to equity ratio

2018
US$’000

1,103,880
(964,815)

139,065
3,057,771
-4.55%

2017
US$’000

863,515
(849,474)

14,041
2,741,225
-0.51%

(i) 

Debt comprises obligations under finance leases, discounted bills with recourse and unsecured borrowings but excludes bank advances from factored trade 

receivables as detailed in Notes 34, 35, 38 and 25 respectively.

(ii) 

Equity includes all capital and reserves attributable to the Owners of the Company.

In addition, based on management recommendations, the Group will balance its overall capital structure through the payment of 
dividends, new share issues and share buy-backs as well as the issue of new debt or the redemption of existing debt.

179

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20182018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

38,189
—

38,189

9,441
33,477
311

43,229

—

—

1,126,798
5,057
2,253
1,103,880

2,237,988

135
577

712

1,921,452
41,164
243,360
795,442

—

32,293

32,293

9,558
3,641
157

13,356

3,697

2,011,189

—
—
—
—

—

43,830
—

43,830

1,574,402
54,952
87,837
825,020

3,001,418

2,542,211

37. Financial Instruments

37.1 Categories of Financial Instruments

Financial assets
FVTPL
  Financial assets at FVTPL
  Held-for-trading investments

Derivative financial instruments
  Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment
  Foreign currency forward contracts – under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts – not under hedge accounting

AFS investments

Loans and receivables (including cash & cash equivalents)

Financial assets at amortized cost
  Trade and other receivables
  Bills receivable
  Trade receivables from an associate
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments
  Foreign currency forward contracts – under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts – not under hedge accounting

Financial liabilities at amortized cost
  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Discounted bills with recourse
  Unsecured borrowings

180

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201837. Financial Instruments (continued)

37.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies

The Group’s corporate treasury function provides risk management advice to the business units, co-ordinates access to domestic 
and international financial markets, monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group through 
internal risk reports which analyze exposures by degree and magnitude of risks. These financial risks include market risk (including 
currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk.

The Group seeks to minimize the effects of these risks by using derivative financial instruments or natural hedges to mitigate these 
risk exposures. The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the board of directors, which 
provide written principles on foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, the use of financial derivatives and non-derivative 
financial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity. Compliance with policies is reviewed by the internal auditors on a 
continuous basis. The Group does not enter into or trade derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.

37.2.1 Foreign Currency Risk Management

Subsidiaries of the Group have foreign currency sales and purchases, which expose the Group to foreign currency risk. 
Approximately 21.9% (2017: 22.1%) of the Group’s sales are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency 
of the group entity making the sale, whilst almost 47.2% (2017: 48.5%) of purchases are denominated in the group entity’s 
respective functional currency.

The carrying amounts of certain significant foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the 
reporting date are as follows:

Foreign Currency
EURO

Liabilities

Assets

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

115,160

131,797

214,474

212,455

Note:  For group entities with their functional currency as the US$, monetary assets and monetary liabilities denominated in Hong Kong dollars have no 

material foreign currency risk exposure as the Hong Kong dollar is pegged with the US$.

The Group requires its group entities to use foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the currency exposure. The 
foreign exchange forward contracts must be in the same currency as the hedged item. On this basis, the Group has entered 
into forward contracts in relation to the foreign currency amounting to US$357,800,000 (2017: US$721,579,000). It is the 
Group’s policy to negotiate the terms of the hedge derivatives to match the terms of the hedged item to maximize hedge 
effectiveness (see Note 28 for details).

Sensitivity Analysis
The Group is mainly exposed to the effects of rate fluctuations in the EURO against US$.

The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 5% increase and decrease in the US$ against the EURO without 
considering the foreign currency forward contracts entered at end of the reporting period. 5% is the sensitivity rate used 
when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents management’s assessment of 
the reasonably possible change in the EURO:US$ foreign exchange rate. The sensitivity analysis includes outstanding foreign 
currency denominated monetary items and excludes the effect of any foreign currency forward contracts held at the reporting 
date. A positive number below indicates an increase in profit for the year where the US$ weakens 5% against the EURO.

Impact of EURO
Profit for the year (i)

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

4,614

3,754

(i) 

This is mainly attributable to the exposure outstanding on receivables, payables and bank borrowings denominated in EURO at the reporting 

date.

181

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201837. Financial Instruments (continued)

37.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

37.2.2 Interest Rate Risk Management

The Group’s exposure to interest rates on financial assets and liabilities is detailed in the liquidity risk management section 
of this note. The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk in relation to variable-rate borrowing (see Note 38 for details 
of these borrowings), discounted bills with recourse, bank balances and deposits. The Group’s cash flow interest rate risk is 
mainly concentrated on London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) arising from the Group’s US$ and EURO denominated 
borrowings. In relation to interest bearing bank balances and deposits, the Group considers the interest rate risk is 
insignificant. The management continuously monitors interest rate fluctuations and will consider further hedging interest rate 
risk should the need arise.

The Group is also exposed to fair value interest rate risk in relation to fixed-rate bank borrowings (see Note 38 for details of 
these borrowings).

During the year, the Group obtained new bank borrowings of US$2,519 million (2017: US$2,206 million) which are either at 
fixed rate or LIBOR based. The proceeds were used for refinancing the Group’s borrowings.

Sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for non-derivative instruments. 
The analysis is prepared assuming the amount of the liability outstanding at the end of the reporting period was outstanding 
for the whole year without considering the interest rate swaps entered at the end of the reporting period. A 50 basis point 
increase or decrease in LIBOR is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and 
represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.

If interest rates had been 50 basis points higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s post-tax 
profit for the year ended December 31, 2018 would decrease/increase by US$4,338,000 (2017: decrease/increase by 
US$3,761,000). This is mainly attributable to the Group’s exposure to interest rates on its variable-rate borrowings.

The Group’s sensitivity to interest rates has increased during the current period mainly due to the increase in variable rate 
debt instruments respectively.

37.2.3 Other Price Risk

The Group is exposed to price risk through its financial assets at FVTPL.

Sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to price risks of listed equity securities measured 
at fair value at the reporting date.

If the prices of the listed equity securities had been 10% higher the profit for the year ended December 31, 2018 of the 
Group would increase by US$3,283,000 (2017: would increase by US$3,229,000) as a result of the changes in fair value of 
financial assets at FVTPL.

37.2.4  Credit Risk Management and Impairment Assessment

As at December 31, 2018, other than those financial assets whose carrying amounts best represent the maximum exposure 
to credit risk of US$2,237,988,000, the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk which will cause a financial loss to the 
Group arising from the amount of financial guarantees provided by the Group is disclosed in Note 46. The Group does not 
hold any collateral or other credit enhancements to cover its credit risks associated with its financial assets.

Trade receivables arising from contracts with customers
In order to minimize the credit risk, the management of the Group has delegated a team responsible for determination of 
credit limits and credit approvals. Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses an internal credit scoring system to 
assess the potential customer’s credit quality and defines credit limits by customer. Limits and scoring attributed to customers 
are reviewed twice a year. Other monitoring procedures are in place to ensure that follow-up action is taken to recover 
overdue debts. In addition, the Group performs impairment assessment under ECL model upon application of HKFRS 9 (2017: 
incurred loss model) based on provision matrix. In this regard, the directors of the Company consider that the Group’s credit 
risk is significantly reduced.

182

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201837. Financial Instruments (continued)

37.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)
37.2.4 Credit Risk Management and Impairment Assessment (continued)

Bank balances
The credit risks on bank balances are limited because the counterparties are banks / financial institutions with high credit 
ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.

The Group’s internal credit risk grading assessment is performed based on the following provision matrix:

Internal credit rating

Description

Trade receivables

Other financial assets

Low risk

The counterparty has a low risk of default and 

does not have any past-due amounts.

Lifetime ECL – 
  not credit-impaired

12-month ECL

Medium risk

Debtor occasionally repays after due dates.

High risk

There have been significant increases in 

credit risk since initial recognition through 
information developed internally or external 
resources.

Lifetime ECL – 
  not credit-impaired

12-month ECL

Lifetime ECL – 
  not credit-impaired

Lifetime ECL – 
  not credit-impaired

Loss

There is evidence indicating the asset is credit 

impaired.

Lifetime ECL – 
  credit-impaired

Lifetime ECL – 
  credit-impaired

Write-off

There is evidence indicating that the debtor is 
in severe financial difficulty and the Group 
has no realistic prospect of recovery.

Amount is written off

Amount is written off

The tables below detail the credit risk exposures of the Group’s financial assets, which are subject to ECL assessment:

2018

Trade receivables

Other receivables
Bills receivable
Trade receivables from an associate
Bank balances, deposits and cash

Notes:

Note

25

25
26
27
30

External 
credit rating

Internal 
credit rating

12-month or lifetime ECL

N/A

(Note 2)

N/A
A- To AA-
N/A
A- To AA+

(Note 1)
N/A
(Note 1)
N/A

Lifetime ECL (not credit-impaired) 
Lifetime ECL (credit-impaired)
12-month ECL
12-month ECL
12-month ECL
12-month ECL

Gross 
carrying 
amount
US$’000

1,140,923
—

37,635
5,057
2,253
1,103,880

1. 

Trade receivables from an associate and other receivables amounted to US$2,253,000  and US$37,635,000 respectively with no fixed 

repayment terms. The Group has assessed these balances using 12-month ECL basis as these had been no significant increase in credit risk 

since initial recognition. The loss allowance at December 31, 2018 was insignificant.

2. 

For trade receivables, the Group has applied the simplified approach in HKFRS 9 to measure the loss allowance at lifetime ECL. The Group 

determines the expected credit losses on these items by using a provision matrix grouped by internal credit rating.

183

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201837. Financial Instruments (continued)

37.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)
37.2.4 Credit Risk Management and Impairment Assessment (continued)
As part of the Group’s credit risk management, the Group applies internal credit rating for its customers in relation to its operation. 
The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECL for trade receivables which are assessed 
collectively based on provision matrix as at December 31, 2018.

Internal credit rating
No risk
Low risk
Medium risk
High risk

Average 
loss rate

0%
1-5%
6-20%
Over 20%

Gross
carrying
amount
US$’000

Impairment
loss
allowance
US$’000

246,139
454,309
411,623
28,852

1,140,923

—

3,086
34,527
14,147

51,760

The estimated loss rates are estimated based on historical observed default rates over the expected life of the debtors and are 
adjusted for forward-looking information that is available without undue cost or effort. The grouping is regularly reviewed by 
management to ensure relevant information about specific debtors is updated.

During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Group provided US$51,760,000 for impairment allowances for trade receivables.

The Group writes off trade receivables when there is information indicating that the debtors are in severe financial difficulties and 
there is no realistic prospect of recovery.

The following table shows the movement in lifetime ECL that has been recognized for trade receivables under the simplified 
approach.

Lifetime
ECL
(not credit-
impaired)
US$’000

37,114
(562)
22,845
25
(7,662)

51,760

As at January 1, 2018
Currency realignment
Impairment losses recognized, net of reversal
Acquisition of a subsidiary
Write-offs

As at December 31, 2018

184

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201837. Financial Instruments (continued)

37.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

37.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management

Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the board of directors which has built an appropriate liquidity 
risk management framework for the management of the Group’s short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity 
management requirements. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and 
reserve borrowing facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of 
financial assets and liabilities.

As at December 31, 2018, the Group has available unutilized overdrafts facilities and short and medium term bank 
loan facilities of approximately US$419 million (2017: US$274 million) and US$1,466 million (2017: US$1,694 million) 
respectively.

Liquidity Tables
The following tables detail the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities as well as 
non-derivative financial assets which are included in the maturity analysis. For non-derivative financial assets, the tables have 
been drawn up based on the contractual maturities of the undiscounted cash flow of the financial assets unless specified 
separately. For non-derivative financial liabilities, the tables reflect the undiscounted cash flow of financial liabilities based on 
the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay. The table includes both interest and principal cash flows. To the 
extent that the interest flows are floating rate, the undiscounted amount is derived from the interest rate curve at the end of 
the reporting period. The inclusion of information on non-derivative financial assets is necessary in order to understand the 
Group’s liquidity risk management as the liquidity is managed on a net asset and liability basis.

In addition, the following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments. The tables have 
been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual net cash inflows and (outflows) on derivative instruments that settle 
on a net basis, and the undiscounted gross inflows and (outflows) on those derivatives that require gross settlement. When 
the amount payable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the foreign currency exchange 
rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period. The liquidity analysis for the Group’s derivative financial instruments are 
prepared based on the contractual maturities as the management considers that the contractual maturities are essential for 
an understanding of the timing of the cash flows of derivatives.

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

—
—
—
—

0.001% – 4.20%

Less than
1 month/
on demand
US$’000

32,828
730,503
1,916
5
1,023,112

1,788,364

2018
Non-derivative financial assets
  Financial assets at FVTPL
  Trade and other receivables
  Bills receivable
  Trade receivables from an associates
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Non-derivative financial liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Discounted bills with recourse
  Bank borrowings
  Financial guarantee contracts

—
—

2.76%
0.10% – 3.57%
—

(1,158,086)
(12,801)
(88,396)
(40,228)
(8,877)

1-3
months
US$’000

4 months-
1 year
US$’000

1-2 years
US$’000

2+ years
US$’000

—

387,643
3,141
2,027
80,905

473,716

(627,490)
(27,906)
(148,763)
(140,428)
—

—

8,652
—

221
—

8,873

(135,876)
(457)
(7,024)
(76,032)
—

5,361
—
—
—
—

5,361

—
—
—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—

(114,423)
—

(443,555)
—

Total 
undiscounted 
cash flows
US$’000

Total carrying
amount at
December 31,
2018
US$’000

38,189
1,126,798
5,057
2,253
1,104,017

38,189
1,126,798
5,057
2,253
1,103,880

2,276,314

2,276,177

(1,921,452)
(41,164)
(244,183)
(814,666)
(8,877)

(1,921,452)
(41,164)
(243,360)
(795,442)
—

(1,308,388)

(944,587)

(219,389)

(114,423)

(443,555)

(3,030,342)

(3,001,418)

185

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201837. Financial Instruments (continued)

37.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

37.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity Tables (continued)

2018
Derivatives – net settlement
  Acquisition right of certain property, 

  plant & equipment

Derivatives – gross settlement
  Foreign currency forward contracts

  – inflow
  – EUR
  – RMB
  – GBP
  – US$
  – AUD
  – NZD

  – outflow
  – EUR
  – RMB
  – GBP
  – US$
  – AUD
  – NZD

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than
1 month/
on demand
US$’000

1-3
months
US$’000

4 months-
1 year
US$’000

1-2 years
US$’000

2+ years
US$’000

Total 
undiscounted 
cash flows
US$’000

Total carrying
amount at
December 31,
2018
US$’000

—

—

—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

10,187
60,619
7,044
70,535
1,098
4,012

153,495

(10,035)
(60,200)
(6,538)
(67,682)
(1,069)
(4,043)

19,110
—

11,542
105,604
2,198
4,911

143,365

(18,770)
—

(10,369)
(101,377)
(2,141)
(5,000)

54,850
—

49,366
500,275
9,910
25,590

639,991

(53,882)
—

(45,539)
(481,400)
(9,684)
(26,046)

(149,567)

(137,657)

(616,551)

3,928

5,708

23,440

—

—

—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—

9,441

9,441

9,441

9,441

9,441

9,441

—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—

84,147
60,619
67,952
676,414
13,206
34,513

936,851

(82,687)
(60,200)
(62,446)
(650,459)
(12,894)
(35,089)

84,147
60,619
67,952
676,414
13,206
34,513

936,851

(82,687)
(60,200)
(62,446)
(650,459)
(12,894)
(35,089)

(903,775)

(903,775)

33,076

33,076

Note:  Maturities are based on the management’s estimation of the expected realization of these financial assets.

186

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37. Financial Instruments (continued)

37.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

37.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity Tables (continued)

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than
1 month/
on demand
US$’000

—
—
—
—
—

0.01% – 2.02%

—
—

2.06%
0.66% – 3.10%
—

32,293
—

669,933
879
5
732,534

1,435,644

(996,318)
(18,362)
(28,122)
(101,642)
(9,298)

1-3
months
US$’000

4 months-
1 year
US$’000

1-2 years
US$’000

2+ years
US$’000

—
—

453,860
7,129
2,420
131,202

594,611

(505,029)
(36,590)
(56,065)
(67,174)
—

—
—

13,083
—

365
—

13,448

(73,055)
—

(3,901)
(98,116)
—

—

3,697
—
—
—
—

3,697

—
—
—

—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—

(30,565)
—

(549,802)
—

Total 
undiscounted 
cash flows
US$’000

Total carrying
amount at
December 31,
2017
US$’000

32,293
3,697
1,136,876
8,008
2,790
863,736

32,293
3,697
1,136,876
8,008
2,790
863,515

2,047,400

2,047,179

(1,574,402)
(54,952)
(88,088)
(847,299)
(9,298)

(1,574,402)
(54,952)
(87,837)
(825,020)
—

(1,153,742)

(664,858)

(175,072)

(30,565)

(549,802)

(2,574,039)

(2,542,211)

2017
Non-derivative financial assets
  Held-for-trading investments
  AFS investments (Note)
  Trade and other receivables
  Bills receivable
  Trade receivables from an associate
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Non-derivative financial liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Discounted bills with recourse
  Bank borrowings
  Financial guarantee contracts

187

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201837. Financial Instruments (continued)

37.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

37.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity Tables (continued)

2017
Derivatives – net settlement
  Acquisition right of certain property, 

  plant & equipment

  Foreign currency forward contracts

  – US$

Derivatives – gross settlement
  Foreign currency forward contracts

  – inflow
  – EUR
  – RMB
  – GBP
  – US$
  – AUD
  – NZD
  – KRW

  – outflow
  – EUR
  – RMB
  – GBP
  – US$
  – AUD
  – NZD
  – KRW

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than
1 month/
on demand
US$’000

1-3
months
US$’000

4 months-
1 year
US$’000

1-2 years
US$’000

2+ years
US$’000

Total 
undiscounted 
cash flows
US$’000

Total carrying
amount at
December 31,
2017
US$’000

—

—

—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—

—

7,574
—

3,543
—

299
4,002
1,807

—

(535)

(535)

15,209
—

13,055
153,127
—

8,004
1,167

—

(2,147)

(2,147)

60,781
173,355
49,400
781,570
—

18,013
—

17,225

190,562

1,083,119

(7,717)
—

(3,772)
—

(297)
(3,988)
(1,855)

(15,372)
—

(13,997)
(158,501)
—

(7,979)
(1,171)

(63,020)
(170,007)
(52,668)
(810,070)
—

(17,842)
—

(17,629)

(197,020)

(1,113,607)

(404)

(6,458)

(30,488)

—

—

—

—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—

9,558

—

9,558

9,558

9,558

(2,682)

6,876

(2,682)

6,876

—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—

83,564
173,355
65,998
934,697
299
30,019
2,974

83,564
173,355
65,998
934,697
299
30,019
2,974

1,290,906

1,290,906

(86,109)
(170,007)
(70,437)
(968,571)
(297)
(29,809)
(3,026)

(86,109)
(170,007)
(70,437)
(968,571)
(297)
(29,809)
(3,026)

(1,328,256)

(1,328,256)

(37,350)

(37,350)

Note:  Maturities are based on the management’s estimation of the expected realization of these financial assets.

The amounts included above for financial guarantee contracts are the maximum amounts the Group could be required to 
settle under the arrangement for the full guaranteed amount if that amount is claimed by the counterparty to the guarantee. 
Based on expectations at the end of the reporting period, the Group considers that it is more likely than not that no amount 
will be payable under the arrangement. However, this estimate is subject to change depending on the probability of the 
counterparty claiming under guarantee which is a function of the likelihood that the financial receivables held by the 
counterparty which are guaranteed suffer credit losses.

The amount included above for variable interest rate instruments for non-derivative financial liabilities is subject to change if 
changes in variable interest rates differ to those estimates of interest rate determined at the end of the reporting period.

188

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37. Financial Instruments (continued)

37.3 Fair Value

The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows:

• 

• 

• 

the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves 
derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the contract;

the fair value of financial assets with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with 
reference to quoted market bid prices or latest purchase/transaction prices; and

the fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) are determined in accordance 
with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market 
transactions.

Fair Value Measurements Recognized in the Statement of Financial Position
Fair value of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities are measured on a recurring basis.

Some of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period. The 
following table gives information about how the fair values of these financial assets and financial liabilities are determined (in 
particular, the valuation technique(s) and inputs used), as well as the level of the fair value hierarchy into which the fair value 
measurements are categorized (Levels 1 to 3) based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value measurements are 
observable.

• 

• 

• 

Level 1: fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or 
liabilities;

Level 2: fair value measurements are those derived from inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are 
observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and

Level 3: fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that 
are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).

189

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201837. Financial Instruments (continued)

37.3 Fair Value (continued)

Fair Value Measurements Recognized in the Statement of Financial Position (continued)

Financial assets / financial liabilities

Fair value as at

Fair value 
hierarchy

Valuation techniques and 
key inputs

2018

2017

Acquisition right of 
certain property, 
plant and 
equipment: 
US$9,441,000

Acquisition right of 
certain property, 
plant and 
equipment: 
US$9,558,000

Level 2

Measured at the fair value of the land 
and buildings associated with the 
acquisition right which is based on 
a valuation by 3rd party independent 
valuer at the end of the financial year.

Assets – 
US$33,788,000; 
and Liabilities – 
US$712,000

Assets – 
US$3,798,000; 
and Liabilities – 
US$43,830,000

Level 2

Discounted cash flow 
  Future cash flows are estimated based 
on forward exchange rates (from 
observable forward exchange rates 
at the end of the reporting period) 
and contracted forward rates, 
discounted at a rate that reflects the 
credit risk of various counterparties.

Listed shares: 
US$32,828,000

Listed shares: 
US$32,293,000

Level 1

Quoted bid prices in an active market.

1)

2)

Acquisition right of certain 
property, plant and 
equipment classified 
as derivative financial 
instruments in the 
consolidated statement of 
financial position

Foreign currency forward 
contracts classified 
as derivative financial 
instruments in the 
consolidated statement of 
financial position

3)

Listed equity securities 

classified as financial assets 
at FVTPL (2017: held-for-
trading investments) in the 
consolidated statement of 
financial position

4)

Other financial assets classified 
as financial assets at FVTPL 
in the consolidated statement 
of financial position

Club membership 
debentures: 
US$2,316,000

N/A

Level 2

The fair value was arrived at with 

reference to recent transaction prices 
for similar comparables with similar 
characteristic.

Unlisted equity 
securities: 
US$3,000,000

Other: 
US$45,000

N/A

Level 3

The fair value was arrived at with 

reference to the latest purchase price 
per share arising on subscribing for 
the shares in private market.

N/A

Level 2

The fair value was arrived at with 

reference to recent transaction prices 
for similar comparables with similar 
characteristic.

190

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201837. Financial Instruments (continued)

37.3 Fair Value (continued)

Fair Value Measurements Recognized in the Statement of Financial Position (continued)

2018
Financial assets
Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment
Foreign currency forward contracts
Financial assets at FVTPL

Total

Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts

Total

2017
Financial assets
Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment
Foreign currency forward contracts
Held-for-trading investments

Total

Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts

Total

Level 1
US$’000

Level 2
US$’000

Level 3
US$’000

Total
US$’000

—
—

32,828

32,828

—

—

—
—

32,293

32,293

—

—

9,441
33,788
2,361

45,590

(712)

(712)

9,558
3,798
—

13,356

(43,830)

(43,830)

—
—

3,000

3,000

—

—

—
—
—

—

—

—

9,441
33,788
38,189

81,418

(712)

(712)

9,558
3,798
32,293

45,649

(43,830)

(43,830)

The Group owns equity interest in a private company incorporated in the US that is classified as financial assets at FVTPL (2017: 
AFS investment) and is measured at fair value at the reporting date.

37.4 Transfers of financial assets

The following were the Group’s financial assets as at December 31, 2018 that were transferred to banks by discounting or factoring 
those trade and bills receivables on a full recourse basis. As the Group retained substantially all of the significant risks and rewards 
relating to these receivables, it continues to recognize the full carrying amount of the receivables and has recognized the cash 
received on the transfer as discounted bills with recourse (see Note 35) and unsecured borrowings – due within one year (see Note 
38). These financial assets are carried at amortized cost in the Group’s consolidated statement of financial position.

The trade and bills receivables discounted with banks with full recourse at the year end was as follows:

Carrying amount of transferred assets
Carrying amount of associated liabilities

Net position

2018
US$’000

318,360
(318,360)

2017
US$’000

162,837
(162,837)

—

—

191

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201838. Unsecured Borrowings

Bank advance from Factored Trade Receivables
Bank loans

Total borrowings

The borrowings of the Group are repayable as follows:

Fixed rate
In more than one year but not more than two years
In more than two years but not more than five years

Floating rate
Within one year
In more than one year but not more than two years
In more than two years but not more than five years

Less: Amount due within one year shown under current liabilities

2018
US$’000

75,000
720,442

795,442

2018
US$’000

20,904
83,903

255,228
91,457
343,950

795,442
(255,228)

2017
US$’000

75,000
750,020

825,020

2017
US$’000

—

104,735

260,342
25,022
434,921

825,020
(260,342)

Amount due after one year

540,214

564,678

The ranges of effective interest rates per annum (which are also equal to contracted interest rates) on the Group’s borrowings are as 
follows:

Effective interest rate:
  Fixed-rate borrowings
  Variable-rate borrowings

2018

2017

2.55% to 3.10% 2.55% to 3.10%
0.10% to 3.57% 0.66% to 3.07%

The Group’s borrowings that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the relevant group entities are set out 
below:

As at December 31, 2018
As at December 31, 2017

US$’000

14,843
13,542

The carrying amount of bank borrowings approximates their fair value as the weighted average interest rates approximate the contracted 
market rates.

192

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201839. Share Capital

Ordinary shares
Authorized shares

Issued and fully paid:
  At the beginning of the year

Issue of shares upon exercise of share options

  Buy-back of shares

At the end of the year

Details of the share options are set out in Note 47.

2018
Number of shares

2017
Number of shares

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2,400,000,000

2,400,000,000

N/A

N/A

1,835,021,941
600,000
(7,100,000)

1,833,896,941
2,625,000
(1,500,000)

1,828,521,941

1,835,021,941

653,918
1,073
—

654,991

649,214
4,704
—

653,918

During the year, the Company cancelled its own shares through the Stock Exchange as follows:

Month of cancellation

March 2018
May 2018
June 2018
July 2018
September 2018
October 2018
November 2018

No. of ordinary
shares

1,000,000
500,000
672,000
1,378,000
200,000
250,000
3,100,000

7,100,000

Price per share

Highest

HK$

46.25
45.35
47.55
43.50
47.25
43.90
41.40

Lowest

HK$

45.00
44.75
43.85
41.70
47.00
43.75
36.25

Aggregate
consideration
paid

US$’000

5,911
2,906
3,947
7,634
1,218
1,415
15,577

38,608

The shares bought back were settled and cancelled during the year. The consideration paid on the buy-back of the shares of 
approximately US$38,608,000 was charged to retained profits.

193

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018 
40. Reserves

The Company
At January 1, 2017
Loss for the year

Total comprehensive loss for the year

Shares issued at premium on exercise of options
Buy-back of shares
Vesting of awarded shares
Shares for share award scheme
Recognition of equity-settled share-based payments
Lapse of share options
Final dividend – 2016
Interim dividend – 2017

At December 31, 2017
Adjustment for adoption of HKFRS 9 (Note 2)

At January 1, 2018 (restated)
Loss for the year

Total comprehensive loss for the year

Shares issued at premium on exercise of options
Buy-back of shares
Vesting of awarded shares
Shares for share award scheme
Recognition of equity-settled share-based payments
Lapse of share options
Final dividend – 2017
Interim dividend – 2018

Shares held 
for share 
award scheme
US$’000

Employee 
share-based 
compensation 
reserve
US$’000

(10,476)
—

—

—
—

3,370
(3,455)
—
—
—
—

(10,561)
—

(10,561)
—

—

—
—

637
(15,191)
—
—
—
—

7,010
—

—

(917)
—

(3,370)
—

4,193
(14)
—
—

6,902
—

6,902
—

—

(205)
—

(637)
—

4,978
(6)
—
—

Retained 
profits
US$’000

Total
US$’000

1,236,931
(27,472)

1,233,465
(27,472)

(27,472)

(27,472)

—

(5,388)
—
—
—

14
(70,778)
(65,507)

(917)
(5,388)
—

(3,455)
4,193
—

(70,778)
(65,507)

1,067,800
811

1,064,141
811

1,068,611
(128,138)

1,064,952
(128,138)

(128,138)

(128,138)

—

(38,608)
—
—
—

6
(93,827)
(89,595)

(205)
(38,608)
—

(15,191)
4,978
—

(93,827)
(89,595)

At December 31, 2018

(25,115)

11,032

718,449

704,366

As at December 31, 2018, the Company’s reserves available for distribution to shareholders comprised the retained profits of 
US$718,449,000 (2017: US$1,067,800,000).

194

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201841. Retirement Benefit Obligations
Defined Contribution Plans:
The Company and its subsidiaries operating in Hong Kong have participated in the Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes (“MPF Schemes”) 
registered under the Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes Ordinance since December 2000. The assets of the MPF Schemes are held 
separately from those of the Group, in funds under the control of trustees. The Group contributes 5% of relevant payroll cost to the MPF 
Schemes with a maximum amount of HK$18,000 (2017: HK$18,000) per employee per annum, which contribution is matched by the 
employee.

The employees of the Group’s subsidiaries in the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) are members of a state-managed retirement benefit 
scheme operated by the PRC government. The subsidiaries are required to contribute a specified percentage of payroll costs to the 
retirement benefit scheme to fund the benefits. The only obligation of the Group with respect to the retirement benefit scheme is to make 
the specified contributions.

The Group’s overseas subsidiaries operate a number of defined contribution schemes. Contributions to the defined contribution schemes 
applicable to each year are made at a certain percentage of the employees’ payroll.

The total expense recognized in profit or loss of US$12,167,000 (2017: US$10,474,000) represents contributions payable to these plans 
by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the plans.

Defined Benefits Plans:
The Group operates several defined benefit plans for qualifying employees of its subsidiaries in Germany and the US, of which these 
plans cover substantially all remaining employees that are not covered by defined contribution plans. The defined benefit plan is 
administered by a separate fund that is legally separated from the Group. The board of the pension fund is composed of an equal number 
of representatives from both employers and (former) employees. The board of the pension fund is required by law and by its articles of 
association to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme, i.e. active employees, inactive employees, 
retirees, employers. The board of the pension fund is responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund. The major 
defined benefit plans are as follows:

Pension plan obligations (Note i)
Post-retirement, medical and dental plan obligations (Note ii)
Life and medical insurance plan (Note ii)
Post-employment benefit plan obligations (Note iii)
Others

2018
US$’000

77,619
1
1,257
2,129
38,968

2017
US$’000

82,764
19
1,431
13,348
26,955

119,974

124,517

Note i:  Pension plan obligations

The pension plan obligations are provided in the German operations and includes a plan that pays retirement benefits on service and final pay. In general, the 

benefit plans were closed to new members at the end of 1995. Under the plan, the employees are entitled to retirement benefits varying between 10% and 20% 

of final salary (based on the average of the last three years) on attainment of a retirement age of 65. The most recent actuarial valuations of the present value of 

the defined benefit obligations were carried out on January 1, 2019, by BDO AG Wirtschaftsprufungsgesellschaft, Germany.

Note ii: Post-retirement, medical and dental plan obligations/Life and medical insurance plan

Milwaukee Electric Tool Corporation, a subsidiary of the Group in the US, operates unfunded post-retirement, medical benefits, dental and life insurance plans. 

The most recent actuarial valuations of the present value of the obligations were carried out on January 3, 2019 by Willis Towers Watsons.

Note iii: Post-employment benefit plan obligations

The pension plan obligations are provided by Hoover Inc. for members of IBEW (International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers) Local 1985 employed by 

Hoover. The most recent actuarial valuation of the present value of the obligations were carried out on December 1, 2018 by CBIZ Benefits & Insurance 

Services.

195

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201841. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)

Defined Benefits Plans: (continued)
The plans in Germany and the US expose the Group to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and salary 
risk.

Investment risk

Interest rate risk

Longevity risk

Salary risk

The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate determined by reference 
to high quality corporate bond yields; if the return on plan asset is below this rate, it will create a plan deficit.
A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the plan liability; however, this will be partially offset by an 
increase in the return on the plan’s debt investments.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality 
of plan participants both during and after their employment. An increase in the life expectancy of the plan 
participants will increase the plan’s liability.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan 
participants. As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.

The risk relating to benefits to be paid to the dependents of plan members (widow and orphan benefits) is reinsured by an external 
insurance company.

The main actuarial assumptions used were as follows:

Discount rate
Expected rate of salary increases
Expected return on plan assets
Future pension increases
Medical cost trend rates

Pension plan

Post-retirement medical 
and dental plan

Life & medical 
insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2018

1.50%
2.00%
N/A
2.00%
N/A

2017

1.65%
2.00%
N/A
2.00%
N/A

2018

1.00%
N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

2017

1.00%
N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

2018

3.75%
N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

2017

3.00%
N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

2018

3.46%
N/A
3.46%
N/A
N/A

2017

3.90%
N/A
3.90%
N/A
N/A

The actuarial valuation showed that the market value of plan assets was US$15,024,000 (2017: US$5,272,000) and that the actuarial 
value of these assets represented 87.6% (2017: 28.3%) of the benefits that had accrued to members.

The effect of an increase of one percentage point in the assumed medical cost trend rate on the aggregate of the current service cost and 
interest cost; and the accumulated post-employment benefit obligations are as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement medical 
and dental plan

Life & medical 
insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

Current service cost and 

interest cost

Accumulated post-employment 
  benefit obligations for 
  medical costs

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

—

—

—

—

3

77

3

93

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

196

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2018 
41. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)

Amounts recognized in comprehensive income in respect of the plans are as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement medical 
and dental plan

Life & medical 
Insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

509

1,265

478

966

1,774

1,444

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

41

41

—

43

43

—

462

—

438

462

438

666

(3,472)

(9)

(42)

(182)

(186)

(446)

1,676

666

(3,472)

2,440

(2,028)

(9)

(9)

(42)

(42)

(182)

(141)

(186)

(143)

(446)

16

1,676

2,114

Service cost:
  Current service cost
Net interest on defined 
  benefit liabilities

Components of defined 
  benefit costs recognized in 
  profit or loss

Remeasurement on the net 
  defined benefit liability:
Actuarial losses (gains) arising 
from changes in financial 

  assumptions

Components of defined 
  benefit costs recognized in 
  other comprehensive income

Total

The charge for the year has been included in staff costs.

The amount included in the consolidated statement of financial position arising from the Group’s obligation in respect of the major plans is 
as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement medical 
and dental plan

Life & medical 
insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

Present value of funded obligations
Fair value of plan assets

Present value of unfunded 
  obligations

—
—

—

—
—

—

77,619

82,764

77,619

82,764

—
—

—

1

1

—
—

—

19

19

—
—

—

—
—

—

17,153
(15,024)

18,620
(5,272)

2,129

13,348

1,257

1,257

1,431

1,431

—

—

2,129

13,348

197

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018 
41. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)

Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligations in the current year in respect of major plans were as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement medical 
and dental plan

Life & medical 
insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

At January 1
Exchange differences
Current service cost
Actuarial losses (gains)
Interest cost
Benefit paid

82,764
(3,688)
509
666
1,265
(3,897)

78,020
10,767
478
(3,472)
966
(3,995)

At December 31

77,619

82,764

19
—
—

(9)
—

(9)

1

68
—
—

(42)
—

(7)

19

1,431
—
—

(182)
41
(33)

1,630
—
—

(186)
43
(56)

18,620
—
—

(406)
613
(1,674)

18,336
—
—

1,514
677
(1,907)

1,257

1,431

17,153

18,620

Movements in the fair value of the plan assets in the current year in respect of certain major plans were as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement medical 
and dental plan

Life & medical 
insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

At January 1
Exchange differences
Expected return on plan assets
Actuarial losses
Contribution from employer
Benefit paid

At December 31

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

5,272
—

151
40
11,235
(1,674)

7,102
—

239
(162)
—

(1,907)

15,024

5,272

The plan assets of the post-employment benefit plan are cash and cash equivalents in a Federated Money Market Fund with an expected 
return of 3.46% (2017: 3.90%).

The actual return on plan assets was US$191,000 (2017: US$77,000).

The significant actuarial assumption for the determination of the defined obligation is the discount rate. If the discount rate is 100 basis 
points higher (lower), the effect on defined benefit obligation would be immaterial.

The Group expects to make no contribution (2017: US$4,000,000) to the defined benefit plans during the next financial year.

198

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201842. Deferred Tax Assets (Liabilities)

The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognized and movements thereon during the current and prior year:

Accelerated
tax
depreciation
US$’000

(12,880)
1
—

(15,297)
9,390
—

Warranty
provision
US$’000

13,613
275
—

3,027
(4,286)
—

(18,786)

12,629

Employee
related
provision
US$’000

48,199
845
—

(6,689)
(8,810)
(9,349)

24,196

Tax
losses
US$’000

89,952
(850)
—

22,525
(65,104)
—

Inventory 
provision 
and LIFO
US$’000

10,876
52
—

(1,730)
(2,822)
—

Others
US$’000

Total
US$’000

(13,934)
2,115
549
6,883
11,984
—

135,826
2,438
549
8,719
(59,648)
(9,349)

46,523

6,376

7,597

78,535

—

—

—

—

—

2,231

2,231

(18,786)
(26)
—

(10,004)
21
—

12,629
(392)
—

2,522
—
—

24,196
(453)
—

(184)
58
(82)

46,523
2,574
—

(18,825)
336
—

6,376
(94)
—

3,003
5
—

9,828
(2,718)
(1,498)
14,063
251
—

80,766
(1,109)
(1,498)
(9,425)
671
(82)

At January 1, 2017
Currency realignment
Credit to hedging reserve
(Charge) credit to profit or loss
Change in tax rates
Charge to equity

At December 31, 2017
Reclassify to refund liabilities 

from right of return

At January 1, 2018 (as restated)
Currency realignment
Charge to hedging reserve
(Charge) credit to profit or loss
Change in tax rates
Charge to equity

At December 31, 2018

(28,795)

14,759

23,535

30,608

9,290

19,926

69,323

For the purpose of presentation in the consolidated statement of financial position, certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been 
offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances for financial reporting purposes:

Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax liabilities

2018
US$’000

83,945
(14,622)

69,323

2017
US$’000

92,939
(14,404)

78,535

At the end of the reporting period, the Group has unused tax losses of US$1,611 million (2017: US$1,296 million) available for offset 
against future taxable profits. Of the US$1,611 million of unused losses approximately US$478 million expire over the next 10 to 19 years 
with the remaining loss carryforwards do not expire. No deferred tax asset has been recognized in respect of tax losses of US$1,475 
million (2017: US$1,114 million) due to the lack of probable future taxable profits.

In respect of all unrepatriated foreign earnings, the Group has provided deferred taxes of US$13 million (2017: Nil) as these unrepatriated 
foreign earnings are not considered permanently reinvested.

199

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018 
43. Acquisition of a Subsidiary

In October 2018, the Group acquired a 100% equity interest in Imperial Blades LLC (“Imperial”) for the consideration of approximately 
US$49,597,000. Imperial’s business was acquired so as to continue the expansion of the Group’s power equipment business. Imperial is 
engaged in manufacture and sale of oscillating saw blades and accessories and is included in the Power Equipment segment.

Net Assets Acquired
Property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets
Inventories
Trade and other receivables, deposits and prepayments
Bank balances and cash
Trade and other payables
Warranty provision

Goodwill arising on acquisition of a subsidiary

Total consideration

Net cash outflow arising on acquisition:
  Total consideration
  Less: Bank balances and cash acquired

Net outflow of cash and cash equivalents in respect of the acquisition of a subsidiary

Fair value
US$’000

2,962
16,747
2,130
3,567
250
(2,667)
(39)

22,950
26,647

49,597

49,597
(250)

49,347

Intangible assets of US$16,747,000 and goodwill of US$26,647,000 arose on the acquisition of Imperial’s business from patents, 
trademarks, manufacturing know-how, retailer and service relationships, non compete agreement and the anticipated profitability arising 
from new product synergies and cost savings within the Power Equipment segment.

The fair value and contractual amounts of trade and other receivables at the date of acquisition amounted to US$3,404,000. All amount 
are expected to be collected.

Goodwill arising on this acquisition is included in Power Equipment-MET CGU and subject for impairment testing as at December 31, 
2018 (Note 20). None of the goodwill arising on the acquisition is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.

Acquisition-related costs are insignificance and have been excluded from the consideration transferred and have been recognized as an 
expense in the current year.

The business acquired contributed approximately US$4,123,000 to the Group’s turnover, and approximately US$393,000 increase in the 
Group’s profit before taxation for the period between the respective dates of acquisition and the reporting date as at December 31, 2018.

The revenue and profit or loss of the acquired businesses for the current reporting period as though the acquisition date for the 
acquisitions that occurred during the year has been as of the beginning of the annual reporting period is not presented as it was 
impracticable to obtain various values in various acquiree’s operations prior to the acquisition.

200

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201844. Major Non-Cash Transactions

During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Group entered into finance lease arrangements in respect of assets at the inception of the 
finance leases of US$147,000 (2017: US$1,654,000).

45. Lease Commitments

At the end of the reporting period, the Group had outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as 
follows:

Within one year
In the second to fifth year inclusive
After five years

2018
US$’000

63,159
153,247
99,967

316,373

2017
US$’000

66,532
149,640
101,099

317,271

Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its plant and machinery, motor vehicles, office properties 
and other assets. Leases are negotiated for a term ranging from 1 year to 20 years.

46. Contingent Liabilities

Guarantees given to banks in respect of credit facilities utilized by associates

2018
US$’000

8,877

2017
US$’000

9,298

In addition, the Company has given guarantees to banks in respect of general facilities granted to its subsidiaries. The extent of such 
facilities utilized by the subsidiaries as at December 31, 2018 amounted to US$514,367,000 (2017: US$372,530,000).

201

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201847. Share Options

Scheme Option Schemes
The Company has two share option schemes in place – Scheme D and Scheme E. Scheme D was adopted on May 29, 2007 and expired 
on May 28, 2017, though its provisions shall remain in full force and effect in all other respects. Following the expiry of Scheme D, 
Scheme E was adopted on May 19, 2017 and will expire on May 18, 2027.

Both Scheme D and Scheme E are aimed for recognition of the contribution to the development and growth of the Group by the eligible 
persons. The scheme rules of both Scheme D and Scheme E are substantially identical and below are the summary of the principal terms 
of both schemes:

The Board of Directors of the Company may grant share options to the following eligible persons (and their wholly owned companies) of 
the Company, its subsidiaries and any companies in which the Group holds any equity interest, to subscribe for shares in the Company:

(i) 

employees; or

(ii)  Directors; or

(iii) 

secondees; or

(iv) 

any shareholders of any member of the Group or invested entity or controlling shareholders or any holders of any securities issued 
by any member of the Group; or

(v) 

business partners; or

(vi) 

suppliers; or

(vii)  customers; or

(viii)  advisers of the Group.

Share options granted must be taken up within 21 days of the date of grant, upon payment of consideration to be determined by the 
Board for the grant thereof. Share options may be exercised at any time, subject to vesting conditions from the date of grant to the tenth 
anniversary thereof. The subscription price is set at the highest of: the closing price of the shares on the date of offer of the share option; 
or the average closing price of shares as stated in the daily quotation sheets issued by the Stock Exchange for the five trading days 
immediately preceding the date of offer.

The maximum number of shares in respect of which share options may be granted under the respective share option scheme is not 
permitted to exceed 30.0% of the issued share capital of the Company from time to time or 10.0% of shares in issue as at the adoption 
date of the respective share option scheme. No person shall be granted an option which exceeds 1.0% of the shares in issue as at the 
date of offer in any 12-month period up to the date thereof.

Options may be exercised at any time after the first or second anniversary of the date of grant of the share option to the tenth anniversary 
of the date of grant. The exercise price is determined by the directors of the Company, and will not be less than the higher of (i) the closing 
price of the Company’s share on the date of grant; and (ii) the average closing price of the shares for the five business days immediately 
preceding the date of grant.

202

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201847. Share Options (continued)

The following tables disclose movements in the Company’s share options during the year:

Date of 
share options 
granted

Share option 
scheme 
category

Outstanding 
at beginning 
of the year

Granted 
during 
the year

Exercised 
during 
the year

Lapsed 
during 
the year

Outstanding 
at end of 
the year

Subscription 
price
HK$

Exercise period

2018

Share option holders

Directors
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

20.3.2014
11.9.2015
17.3.2017

21.5.2012
20.3.2014
11.9.2015
17.3.2017
14.3.2018

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

16.11.2009

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung GBS BBS JP

Mr Camille Jojo

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse

20.3.2014
11.9.2015
17.3.2017
14.3.2018

20.3.2014
11.9.2015
17.3.2017
14.3.2018

11.9.2015
17.3.2017
14.3.2018

17.3.2017
14.3.2018

17.3.2017
14.3.2018

11.9.2015
17.3.2017
14.3.2018

16.11.2009
23.5.2011
21.5.2012
11.9.2015
17.3.2017
14.3.2018

17.3.2017
14.3.2018

19.6.2017
14.3.2018

D
D
D

D
D
D
D
E

D

D
D
D
E

D
D
D
E

D
D
E

D
E

D
E

D
D
E

D
D
D
D
D
E

D
E

E
E

230,000
168,000
155,500

1,000,000
1,000,000
250,000
500,000
—

1,000,000

1,000,000
250,000
500,000
—

1,000,000
250,000
500,000
—

150,000
150,000
—

250,000
—

150,000
—

25,000
150,000
—

200,000
200,000
250,000
150,000
150,000
—

150,000
—

135,000
—

—
—
—

—
—
—
—
250,000

—

—
—
—
250,000

—
—
—
250,000

—
—
100,000

—
100,000

—
100,000

—
—
100,000

—
—
—
—
—
100,000

—
100,000

—
100,000

—
—
—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—

—
—
—
—

—
—
—

—
—

—
—

(25,000)
(75,000)
—

—
—
—
—
—
—

—
—

—
—

—
—
—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—

—
—
—
—

—
—
—

—
—

—
—

—
—
—

—
—
—
—
—
—

—
—

—
—

1,000,000
250,000
500,000
250,000

1,000,000
250,000
500,000
250,000

150,000
150,000
100,000

250,000
100,000

150,000
100,000

—
75,000
100,000

200,000
200,000
250,000
150,000
150,000
100,000

150,000
100,000

135,000
100,000

230,000
168,000
155,500

1,000,000
1,000,000
250,000
500,000
250,000

21.600   20.3.2015  –  19.3.2024
29.650   11.9.2016  –  10.9.2025
32.100   17.3.2018  –  16.3.2027

8.742   21.5.2013  –  20.5.2022
21.600   20.3.2015  –  19.3.2024
29.650   11.9.2016  –  10.9.2025
32.100   17.3.2018  –  16.3.2027
47.900   14.3.2019  –  13.3.2028

1,000,000

6.770  16.11.2010  –  15.11.2019

21.600   20.3.2015  –  19.3.2024
29.650   11.9.2016  –  10.9.2025
32.100   17.3.2018  –  16.3.2027
47.900   14.3.2019  –  13.3.2028

21.600   20.3.2015  –  19.3.2024
29.650   11.9.2016  –  10.9.2025
32.100   17.3.2018  –  16.3.2027
47.900   14.3.2019  –  13.3.2028

29.650   11.9.2016  –  10.9.2025
32.100   17.3.2018  –  16.3.2027
47.900   14.3.2019  –  13.3.2028

32.100   17.3.2018  –  16.3.2027
47.900   14.3.2019  –  13.3.2028

32.100   17.3.2018  –  16.3.2027
47.900   14.3.2019  –  13.3.2028

29.650   11.9.2016  –  10.9.2025
32.100   17.3.2018  –  16.3.2027
47.900   14.3.2019  –  13.3.2028

6.770  16.11.2010  –  15.11.2019
9.872   23.5.2012  –  22.5.2021
8.742   21.5.2013  –  20.5.2022
29.650   11.9.2016  –  10.9.2025
32.100   17.3.2018  –  16.3.2027
47.900   14.3.2019  –  13.3.2028

32.100   17.3.2018  –  16.3.2027
47.900   14.3.2019  –  13.3.2028

36.300   19.6.2018  –  18.6.2027
47.900   14.3.2019  –  13.3.2028

203

Total for directors

9,913,500

1,450,000

(100,000)

— 11,263,500

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201847. Share Options (continued)

The following tables disclose movements in the Company’s share options during the year: (continued)

2018

Share option holders

Employees

Total for employees

Total for all categories

Exercisable at the end of the year

Date of 
share options 
granted

Share option 
scheme 
category

Outstanding 
at beginning 
of the year

Granted 
during 
the year

Exercised 
during 
the year

Lapsed 
during 
the year

Outstanding 
at end of 
the year

14.1.2008
17.4.2008
16.11.2009
28.12.2009
17.1.2011
23.3.2017
19.6.2017

D
D
D
D
D
D
E

25,000
200,000
600,000
30,000
20,000
200,000
350,000

1,425,000

—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—

(200,000)
(300,000)
—
—
—
—

(25,000)
—
—
—
—
—
—

—
—

300,000
30,000
20,000
200,000
350,000

(500,000)

(25,000)

900,000

11,338,500

1,450,000

(600,000)

(25,000)

12,163,500

9,043,250

Subscription 
price
HK$

Exercise period

7.566   14.1.2009  –  13.1.2018
7.780   17.4.2009  –  16.4.2018
6.770  16.11.2010  –  15.11.2019
6.390  28.12.2010  –  27.12.2019
10.436   17.1.2012  –  16.1.2021
32.150   23.3.2018  –  22.3.2027
36.300   19.6.2018  –  18.6.2027

204

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201847. Share Options (continued)

The following tables disclose movements in the Company’s share options during the year: (continued)

Date of 
share options 
granted

Share option 
scheme 
category

Outstanding 
at beginning 
of the year

Granted 
during 
the year

Exercised 
during 
the year

Lapsed 
during 
the year

Outstanding 
at end of 
the year

Subscription 
price
HK$

Exercise period

2017

Share option holders

Directors
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

20.3.2014
11.9.2015
17.3.2017

21.5.2012
20.3.2014
11.9.2015
17.3.2017

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

16.11.2009

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung GBS BBS JP

Mr Camille Jojo

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

20.3.2014
11.9.2015
17.3.2017

20.3.2014
11.9.2015
17.3.2017

11.9.2015
17.3.2017

17.3.2017

11.9.2015
17.3.2017

21.5.2012
11.9.2015
17.3.2017

16.11.2009
23.5.2011
21.5.2012
11.9.2015
17.3.2017

11.9.2015
17.3.2017

Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse

19.6.2017

Total for directors

D
D
D

D
D
D
D

D

D
D
D

D
D
D

D
D

D

D
D

D
D
D

D
D
D
D
D

D
D

E

230,000
168,000
—

1,000,000
1,000,000
250,000
—

1,000,000

1,000,000
250,000
—

1,000,000
250,000
—

150,000
—

—
—

155,500

—
—
—

500,000

—

—
—

500,000

—
—

500,000

—

150,000

—

250,000

—
—
—

—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—

—
—
—

—
—

—

150,000
—

250,000
150,000
—

200,000
200,000
250,000
150,000
—

150,000
—

—

150,000

—
—

150,000

—
—
—
—

150,000

—

150,000

(150,000)
—

(250,000)
(125,000)
—

—
—
—
—
—

(150,000)
—

—

135,000

—

7,798,000

2,790,500

(675,000)

—
—
—

—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—

—
—
—

—
—

—

—
—

—
—
—

—
—
—
—
—

—
—

—

—

230,000
168,000
155,500

1,000,000
1,000,000
250,000
500,000

21.600   20.3.2015  – 
29.650   11.9.2016  – 
32.100   17.3.2018  – 

19.3.2024
10.9.2025
16.3.2027

8.742   21.5.2013  – 
21.600   20.3.2015  – 
29.650   11.9.2016  – 
32.100   17.3.2018  – 

20.5.2022
19.3.2024
10.9.2025
16.3.2027

1,000,000

6.770   16.11.2010  –  15.11.2019

1,000,000
250,000
500,000

1,000,000
250,000
500,000

21.600   20.3.2015  – 
29.650   11.9.2016  – 
32.100   17.3.2018  – 

19.3.2024
10.9.2025
16.3.2027

21.600   20.3.2015  – 
29.650   11.9.2016  – 
32.100   17.3.2018  – 

19.3.2024
10.9.2025
16.3.2027

150,000
150,000

29.650   11.9.2016  – 
32.100   17.3.2018  – 

10.9.2025
16.3.2027

250,000

32.100   17.3.2018  – 

16.3.2027

—

150,000

—

25,000
150,000

200,000
200,000
250,000
150,000
150,000

—

150,000

29.650   11.9.2016  – 
32.100   17.3.2018  – 

10.9.2025
16.3.2027

8.742   21.5.2013  – 
29.650   11.9.2016  – 
32.100   17.3.2018  – 

20.5.2022
10.9.2025
16.3.2027

6.770   16.11.2010  –  15.11.2019
22.5.2021
9.872   23.5.2012  – 
20.5.2022
8.742   21.5.2013  – 
10.9.2025
29.650   11.9.2016  – 
16.3.2027
32.100   17.3.2018  – 

29.650   11.9.2016  – 
32.100   17.3.2018  – 

10.9.2025
16.3.2027

135,000

36.300   19.6.2018  – 

18.6.2027

9,913,500

205

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201847. Share Options (continued)

The following tables disclose movements in the Company’s share options during the year: (continued)

2017

Share option holders

Employees

Total for employees

Total for all categories

Exercisable at the end of the year

Date of 
share options 
granted

Share option 
scheme 
category

Outstanding 
at beginning 
of the year

Granted 
during 
the year

Exercised 
during 
the year

Lapsed 
during 
the year

Outstanding 
at end of 
the year

24.8.2007
16.10.2007
14.1.2008
17.4.2008
14.5.2008
16.11.2009
28.12.2009
17.1.2011
23.3.2017
19.6.2017

D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
E

670,000
15,000
430,000
250,000
40,000
1,420,000
30,000
20,000
—
—

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

200,000
350,000

(620,000)
(15,000)
(405,000)
(50,000)
(40,000)
(820,000)
—
—
—
—

(50,000)
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

—
—

25,000
200,000
—

600,000
30,000
20,000
200,000
350,000

2,875,000

550,000

(1,950,000)

(50,000)

1,425,000

10,673,000

3,340,500

(2,625,000)

(50,000)

11,338,500

7,998,000

Subscription 
price
HK$

Exercise period

8.390   24.8.2008  – 
23.8.2017
8.810   16.10.2008  –  15.10.2017
13.1.2018
7.566   14.1.2009  – 
16.4.2018
7.780   17.4.2009  – 
7.500   14.5.2009  – 
13.5.2018
6.770   16.11.2010  –  15.11.2019
6.390   28.12.2010  –  27.12.2019
16.1.2021
10.436   17.1.2012  – 
22.3.2027
32.150   23.3.2018  – 
18.6.2027
36.300   19.6.2018  – 

206

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201847. Share Options (continued)

The following significant assumptions were used to derive the fair values using the Black-Scholes option pricing model:

Date of grant

Exercise price
HK$

Expected volatility 
based on 
historical volatility 
of share prices

Yields of 
Hong Kong 
Government Bonds

Expected life of 
share options

Expected annual 
dividend yield

For the year ended December 31, 2018
14.3.2018

For the year ended December 31, 2017
17.3.2017
23.3.2017
19.6.2017

47.900

3 years

32.100
32.150
36.300

3 years
3 years
3 years

38%

39%
39%
38%

1.507%

1.207%
1.057%
0.778%

1.5%

1.5%
1.5%
1.5%

The share options are vested in parts over 1 to 2 years from the date of grant.

Expected volatility was determined by using the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the previous 3 years. The expected 
life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions 
and behavioral considerations.

The Black-Scholes option pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the volatility of the share price. 
Because changes in subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in the directors’ opinion, the existing model 
does not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of the share options.

The weighted average closing price of the Company’s shares immediately before the various dates on which the share options were 
granted during 2018 was HK$48.50 (2017: HK$32.42).

The closing price of the Company’s shares immediately before the various dates on which the share options were granted was HK$48.50 
in 2018 (2017: HK$31.80 to HK$36.00).

The weighted average closing prices of the Company’s shares immediately before various dates during 2018 and 2017 on which the share 
options were exercised were HK$46.63 and HK$38.21 respectively.

The Group recognized a total expense of US$2,634,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018 (2017: US$2,246,000) in relation to 
share options granted by the Company.

The fair values of the share options granted in 2018 measured at various dates on which the share options were granted was HK$11.82 
(2017: HK$7.98 to HK$8.68). The weighted average fair value of the share options granted in 2018 was HK$11.82 (2017: HK$8.11) per 
option.

The Company had 12,163,500 share options outstanding (2017: 11,338,500), which represented approximately 0.67% (2017: 0.62%) of 
the issued share capital of the Company as at December 31, 2018. No option was cancelled during the year.

Total securities available for issue under Scheme D are 150,505,065 shares, which represented approximately 8.23% of the issued 
shares of the Company as at December 31, 2018. Total securities available for issue under Scheme E are 183,299,194 shares, which 
represented approximately 10.02% of the issued shares of the Company as at December 31, 2018.

207

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201848. Share Award Scheme

The purpose of the share award scheme is to recognize the contributions by certain eligible persons and to provide them with incentives in 
order to retain them for the continual operation and development of the Group and to attract suitable personnel for further development of 
the Group.

The share award scheme of the Company was adopted by the Board of Directors on January 9, 2008 and renewed on January 17, 2018. 
The Board may from time to time at their absolute discretion select any eligible person for participation in the scheme as a selected 
grantee and determine the number of shares to be awarded or make reference to a nominal amount. The Board must cause to be paid 
to the trustee the purchase price and the related expenses. The trustee must either purchase shares from the market or subscribe for 
new shares. The trustee must hold the shares until they are vested in accordance with the scheme rules. When the selected grantee 
has satisfied all vesting conditions specified by the Board at the time of making the award and becomes entitled to the shares forming 
the subject of the award, the trustee will transfer the relevant vested shares together with the income derived therefrom (net of accrued 
interest) to the selected grantee.

An award of shares automatically lapses when, (i) a selected grantee who is an employee ceases to be an employee; or (ii) the subsidiary 
by which a selected grantee is employed ceases to be a subsidiary of the Company (or of a member of the Group); or (iii) a selected 
grantee who is a Director of the Company or a subsidiary ceases to be a director of the same; or (iv) an order for the winding-up of the 
Company is made or a resolution is passed (otherwise than for certain purposes) for the voluntary winding-up of the Company, and, in any 
such case, the award, unless the Board otherwise agrees, automatically lapses forthwith and all the awarded shares and related income of 
such award do not vest on the relevant vesting date but become returned shares for the purpose of the scheme.

Recognition of share-based payment expenses under the share award scheme during the year was US$2,344,000 (2017: US$1,947,000). 
During 2018, 160,500 shares (2017: 1,036,500 shares) were transferred to the awardees upon vesting.

(i)  Movements in the number of awarded shares and their related average fair value were as follows:

At January 1
Awarded (Note (a))
Vested

At December 31 (Note (b))

Notes:

Number

2018

2017

300,000
1,174,500
(160,500)

1,025,000
311,500
(1,036,500)

1,314,000

300,000

(a) 

All the awarded shares were purchased from the market.

(b) 

At the end of the year, the average fair value per share is HK$30.30 (2017: HK$30.82). The average fair value of the awarded shares is based on the 

average purchase cost.

(ii) 

The remaining vesting periods of the awarded shares outstanding are as follows:

Number of awarded shares

2018

441,000
873,000

1,314,000

2017

150,000
150,000

300,000

Less than 1 year
More than 1 year

208

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201849. Capital Commitments

Capital expenditure in respect of the acquisition of property, plant and 
  equipment contracted for but not 
  provided in the consolidated financial statements

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

119,350

21,888

50. Related Party Transactions

During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions with its associates, which did not constitute connected transactions 
under Chapter 14A of the Listing Rules:

Sales income
Purchases

The remuneration of directors and other members of key management during the year was as follows:

Short-term benefits
Post-employment benefits
Share-based payments

2018
US$’000

5,141
5,142

2018
US$’000

61,249
856
4,762

66,867

2017
US$’000

5,801
5,719

2017
US$’000

59,348
808
6,420

66,576

Details of the balances and transactions with related parties are set out in the statements of financial position and Notes 21, 27 and 46.

209

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201851. Reconciliation of Liabilities Arising from Financing Activities

The table below details changes in the Group’s liabilities arising from financing activities, including both cash and non-cash changes. 
Liabilities arising from financing activities are those for which cash flows were, or future cash flows will be, classified in the Group’s 
consolidated statement of cash flows as cash flows from financing activities.

At January 1, 2017
Financing cash flows:
  New bank loans obtained
  Repayment
Foreign exchange translation
Inception of finance lease
Interest expenses
Interest paid
Dividend declared
Dividend paid

At December 31, 2017 and January 1, 2018

Financing cash flows:
  New bank loans obtained
  Repayment
Inception of finance lease
Interest expenses
Interest paid
Dividend declared
Dividend paid

At December 31, 2018

Dividend 
payable
US$’000

Unsecured 
borrowings 
Note 38
US$’000

Discounted 
bills with 
recourse 
Note 35
US$’000

Obligations 
under finance 
leases 
Note 34
US$’000

Total
US$’000

—

—
—
—
—
—
—

136,285
(136,285)

—

—
—
—
—
—

183,422
(183,422)

894,277

93,897

13,742

1,001,916

2,206,220
(2,275,477)
—
—

23,699
(23,699)
—
—

825,020

2,519,087
(2,548,665)
—

37,407
(37,407)
—
—

—

(6,060)
—
—
—
—
—
—

87,837

155,523
—
—
—
—
—
—

—

(3,786)
7
1,654
781
(781)
—
—

11,617

—

(10,751)
147
642
(642)
—
—

2,206,220
(2,285,323)
7
1,654
24,480
(24,480)
136,285
(136,285)

924,474

2,674,610
(2,559,416)
147
38,049
(38,049)
183,422
(183,422)

—

795,442

243,360

1,013

1,039,815

210

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201852. Statement of Financial Position of the Company

As at December 31, 2018

Note

2018
US$’000

2017
US$’000

ASSETS
Non-current assets
  Property, plant and equipment

Intangible assets
Investments in subsidiaries

  Loans to subsidiaries
Interests in associates

  AFS investments
  Financial assets at FVTPL

Current assets
  Other receivables
  Deposits and prepayments
  Held-for-trading investments
  Financial assets at FVTPL
  Tax recoverable
  Amounts due from subsidiaries
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Current liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Tax payable
  Amounts due to subsidiaries
  Unsecured borrowings – due within one year

Net current (liabilities) assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Capital and Reserves
  Share capital
  Reserves

Non-current Liabilities
  Unsecured borrowings – due after one year

Total equity and non-current liabilities

5,380
19
2,692,850
829,857
2,371
—

4,148

2,898
4
1,168,489
860,741
1,488
3,311
—

3,534,625

2,036,931

9
12,397
—

32,828
1,794
1,225,045
225,764

46
4,046
32,293
—
—

2,041,292
261,018

1,497,837

2,338,695

58,402
—

3,049,630
25,600

57,864
815
2,003,610
30,600

3,133,632

2,092,889

(1,635,795)

245,806

1,898,830

2,282,737

40

654,991
704,366

653,918
1,064,141

1,359,357

1,718,059

539,473

564,678

1,898,830

2,282,737

The Company’s statement of financial position was approved and authorized for issue by the Board of Directors on March 6, 2019 and are 
signed on its behalf by:

Chi Chung Chan
Group Executive Director

Stephan Horst Pudwill
Vice Chairman

211

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018 
 
 
53. Particulars of Principal Subsidiaries

Particulars of the principal subsidiaries of the Company as at December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 are as follows:

Name of subsidiaries

Place of 
incorporation/ 
operation

Issued and 
fully paid 
share capital

Proportion of nominal value 
of issued capital held 
by the Company

Principal activities

Baja, Inc.

US

US$17.36

DreBo Werkzeugfabrik GmbH *

Germany

EUR1,000,000

Homelite Consumer Products, Inc.

Hoover Inc.

US

US

US$10

US$1

Directly
%

Indirectly
%

—

—

—

—

100

Trading of outdoor power 
equipment products

100

Trading and manufacture of power 

equipment products

100

Trading of outdoor power 
equipment products 

100

Trading and manufacture of floor 

care products

Hong Kong

HK$100,000

100

—

Trading of household electronic 

Marco Polo Industries & Merchandising 
  Company Limited

Milwaukee Electric Tool Corporation

One World Technologies, Inc.

US

US

US$50,000,000

US$10

Royal Appliance International GmbH

Germany

EUR2,050,000

Royal Appliance Mfg. Co.

US

US$1

Sang Tech Industries Limited

Hong Kong

HK$1,000,000

Santo Industries Limited

Hong Kong

HK$2,000,000

—

—

100

—

100

100

Solar Wide Industrial Limited

Hong Kong

HK$2,000,000

75.725

Techtronic Floor Care Technology Limited

British Virgin Islands 

US$1

100

(“BVI”)

Techtronic Industries (Dongguan) Co. Ltd.#

PRC

US$47,000,000

—

100

and electrical products

100

Trading and manufacture of power 

equipment products

100

Trading of power equipment 

products

—

Trading of floor care products

100

Trading and manufacture of floor 

care products

—

—

—

—

Manufacture of plastic parts

Manufacture of metallic parts

Manufacture of electronic products

Investment and intellectual 

properties holding

Manufacture of power equipment, 
floor care and outdoor power 
equipment products

Techtronic Industries (Taiwan) Co. Ltd.

Taiwan

NT$5,000,000

Techtronic Industries (UK) Ltd

United Kingdom

GBP4,000,000

100

—

—

Provision of inspection services

100

Trading of power equipment 

products

212

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2018 
53. Particulars of Principal Subsidiaries (continued)

Name of subsidiaries

Place of 
incorporation/ 
operation

Issued and 
fully paid 
share capital

Proportion of nominal value 
of issued capital held 
by the Company

Principal activities

Directly
%

Indirectly
%

Techtronic Industries Australia Pty. Limited

Australia

AU$25,575,762

Techtronic Industries Central Europe GmbH*

Germany

EUR25,600

Techtronic Industries ELC GmbH*

Germany

EUR25,000

Techtronic Industries France SAS

France

EUR14,919,832

Techtronic Industries GmbH+

Germany

EUR20,452,500

Techtronic Industries Korea Limited

Korea

KRW3,400,000,000

Techtronic Industries Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico

MXN50,000
(Serie I)
MXN362,720,990 
(Serie II)

—

—

—

—

100

100

—

100

Trading of power equipment, 

floor care and outdoor power 
equipment products

100

Trading of power equipment 

products

100

Trading of power equipment 

products and outdoor power 
equipment products

100

Trading of power equipment 

products

—

Trading and manufacture of power 

equipment products

—

Trading of power equipment 

products

100

Trading of power equipment, 

floor care and outdoor power 
equipment products

Techtronic Industries N.Z. Limited

New Zealand

NZ$4,165,500

100

—

Trading of power equipment, 

Techtronic Industries North America, Inc.

US

US$10

Techtronic Outdoor Products 
  Technology Limited

Bermuda

US$12,000

Techtronic Power Tools Technology Limited

BVI

Techtronic Product Development Limited

Hong Kong

Techtronic Trading Limited

Hong Kong

US$1

HK$2

HK$2

100

100

100

100

100

floor care and outdoor power 
equipment products

—

—

Investment holding

Investment and intellectual 

properties holding

—

Investment and intellectual 

properties holding

—

Engage in research and 
development activities

—

Trading of power equipment, 

floor care and outdoor power 
equipment products

213

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201853. Particulars of Principal Subsidiaries (continued)

Name of subsidiaries

Place of 
incorporation/ 
operation

Issued and 
fully paid 
share capital

Proportion of nominal value 
of issued capital held 
by the Company

Principal activities

Directly
%

—

100

100

Indirectly
%

100

Trading of power equipment, 

floor care and outdoor power 
equipment products

—

—

Investment holding

Trading of household electrical and 

floor care products

TTI (Macao Commercial Offshore) Limited

Macau

MOP780,000

TTI Investments (Dongguan) Company Limited Hong Kong

HK$2

Vax Limited

United Kingdom

GBP30,000 
(Ordinary A shares)
GBP2,500 
(Ordinary B shares)

* 

# 

+ 

Exempt from the obligation to publish local financial statements.

A wholly foreign owned enterprise.

Indirectly 100% held by the Company as at December 31, 2017.

The above table lists the subsidiaries of the Company which, in the opinion of the directors, principally affected the results or assets of the 
Group. To give details of other subsidiaries would, in the opinion of the directors, result in particulars of excessive length.

At the end of the reporting period, the Company has other subsidiaries that are not material to the Group. The principal activities of these 
subsidiaries are summarized as follows:

Principal activities

Principal place of business

Number of subsidiaries

Manufacture of power equipment, 

floor care and outdoor power equipment products
Trading of power equipment, floor care and outdoor 
  power equipment product
Investment holding
Dormant

Europe, Latin America, PRC, US
  and others
Canada, Europe, Hong Kong, 
  Latin America, PRC, US and others
Australia, BVI, Europe, Hong Kong, US
BVI, Europe, Hong Kong, US

2018

2017

7

34

24
13

5

33

23
13

None of the subsidiaries had any debt securities outstanding at the end of the year, or at any time during the year.

54. Particulars of Principal Associate

Particulars of the principal associate are as follows:

Name of associate

Place of 
incorporation/
operation

Issued and 
fully paid 
share capital

Proportion of nominal value 
of issued capital held 
by the Company directly

Principal activities

Gimelli International 
(Holdings) Limited

The Cayman Islands

US$6,250

2018
%

40.8

2017
%

40.8

Investment holding

214

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2018 
 
Results

Revenue

Profit before taxation
Taxation charge

Profit for the year

Attributable to:
  Owners of the Company
  Non-controlling interests

Year ended December 31

2014
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2016
US$’000

2017
US$’000

2018
US$’000

4,752,960

5,038,004

5,480,413

6,063,633

7,021,182

325,159
(25,680)

386,957
(32,814)

440,029
(31,242)

505,496
(34,972)

594,610
(42,070)

299,479

354,143

408,787

470,524

552,540

300,330
(851)

354,427
(284)

408,982
(195)

Profit for the year

299,479

354,143

408,787

Basic earnings per share (US cents)

16.41

19.37

22.32

470,425
99

470,524

25.66

552,463
77

552,540

30.16

Assets and Liabilities

Total assets
Total liabilities

2014
US$’000

4,351,383
2,384,357

As at December 31

2015
US$’000

4,802,718
2,647,146

2016
US$’000

5,120,407
2,721,475

2017
US$’000

5,598,477
2,857,759

2018
US$’000

6,348,862
3,291,521

1,967,026

2,155,572

2,398,932

2,740,718

3,057,341

Equity attributable to Owners of the Company
Non-controlling interests

1,967,153
(127)

2,155,983
(411)

2,399,538
(606)

2,741,225
(507)

3,057,771
(430)

1,967,026

2,155,572

2,398,932

2,740,718

3,057,341

215

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Financial Summary Listing Information
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
  Ordinary Shares (stock code: 669)
ADR Level 1 Programme (symbol: TTNDY)

Share Registrar and Transfer Office
Tricor Secretaries Limited
Level 22, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East
Hong Kong
Tel: (852) 2980 1888

ADR Depositary
The Bank of New York

Principal Bankers
Bank of America, N.A.
Bank of China
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
Standard Chartered Bank
Citibank N.A.
MUFG Bank, Ltd.
Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Hong Kong Branch

Solicitors
Vincent T.K. Cheung, Yap & Co.

Auditor
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu

Company Secretary
Ms Veronica Ka Po Ng

Trademarks
All trademarks and trade names listed other than AEG and RYOBI are 

owned by the Group.

AEG is a registered trademark of AB Electrolux (publ.), and is used 

under license.

RYOBI is a registered trademark of Ryobi Limited, and is used under 

license.

Board of Directors
Group Executive Directors
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill
Chairman

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill
Vice Chairman

Mr Joseph Galli Jr
Chief Executive Officer

Mr Patrick Kin Wah Chan
Mr Frank Chi Chung Chan

Non-executive Directors
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung GBS BBS JP
Mr Camille Jojo

Independent Non-executive Directors
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung
Mr Johannes-Gerhard Hesse

Financial Calendar 2019
March 6 
May 14 

: Announcement of 2018 annual results
:  Last day to register for the entitlement to attend and  

  vote at Annual General Meeting

May 15-17 

:  Book closure period for the entitlement to attend and  

  vote at Annual General Meeting

May 17 
May 23 
May 24 
June 21 
June 30 
December 31 : Financial year end

: Annual General Meeting
: Last day to register for 2018 final dividend
: Book closure period for 2018 final dividend
: Final dividend payment
: Six months interim period end

Investor Relations Contact
Investor Relations and Communications
Techtronic Industries Co. Ltd.
29/F, Tower 2
Kowloon Commerce Centre
51 Kwai Cheong Road
Kwai Chung, N.T.
Hong Kong
email: ir@tti.com.hk

Website
www.ttigroup.com
Earnings results, annual/interim reports are available online.

216

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2018Corporate InformationPublished by Techtronic Industries Co. Ltd.
© 2019 Techtronic Industries Co. Ltd.

