Annual Report 2014

Corporate Profile 

Techtronic Industries Company Limited (the “Company” or “TTI”) is a world-class leader in design, 
manufacturing and marketing of Power Tools, Outdoor Power Equipment, and Floor Care and 
Appliances for consumers, professional and industrial users in the home improvement, repair  
and construction industries. Our unrelenting strategic focus on Powerful Brands, Innovative 
Products, Operational Excellence and Exceptional People drives our culture.

Our brands and products are recognized worldwide for their deep heritage, superior quality, 
outstanding performance and compelling innovation. Through a company-wide commitment to 
innovation and strong customer partnerships, we consistently deliver new products that enhance 
customer satisfaction and productivity. This focus and drive provides TTI with a powerful platform  
for sustainable leadership and strong growth. 

Founded in 1985 in Hong Kong, TTI has a portfolio of industry leading brands, a worldwide customer 
reach, and over 20,000 staff. TTI is listed on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong and in 2014 had 
worldwide annual sales of US$4.8 billion.

Contents

1 Financial Highlights

2 Chairman’s Statement

4 Chief Executive Officer’s Message

6 Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools Overview

8 Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools

26 Floor Care and Appliances Overview

28 Floor Care and Appliances

36 Board of Directors 

42 Management’s Discussion and Analysis

48 Corporate Governance Report

58 Report of the Directors

67 Independent Auditor’s Report

68 Consolidated Financial Statements

75 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

159 Financial Summary

160 Corporate Information

Financial Highlights

Turnover

Gross profit margin

EBIT

Profit attributable to Owners of the Company

Basic earnings per share (US cents)

Dividend per share (approx. US cents) 

2014
US$’
million

4,753

35.2%

351

300

16.41

4.05

2013
US$’
million

4,300

34.2%

304

250

13.68

3.06

Changes

+10.5%

+100 bpt

+15.4%

+20.0%

+20.0%

+32.6%

•  Sales increased 10.5% to a record US$4.8 billion

•  Our high margin Milwaukee Industrial Tool business grew 22.2% globally, delivering a 3 year CAGR +20%

•  Growth in all geographic regions

•  Gross profit margin expanded 100 basis points

•  Net profit increased 20.0% for the year, delivering double digit growth for seven consecutive years

•  Efficient working capital management at 14.6% of sales

4,753

4,300

Turnover 
US$m

5,000

4,500

4,000

3,852

3,500

3,000

Gross Profit Margin 
%

EBIT 
US$m

35.2

351

Basic Earnings per Share
US cents

16.41

34.2

33.5

35

34

33

32

31

30

304

260

350

300

250

200

13.68

11.42

16

14

12

10

8

2012

2013

2014

2012

2013

2014

2012

2013

2014

2012

2013

2014

1

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Chairman’s Statement

2014 was another record year for TTI.  
Our focus on product innovation and  
execution allows us to deliver consistently  
strong results and will continue to drive  
our future success.

TTI had an outstanding year in 2014, and I am delighted to report 
record sales, gross margin, and profit, building on our stellar 
history of continuous growth.

At TTI our disciplined focus on four key strategic drivers of 
powerful brands, innovative products, exceptional people, and 
operational excellence allows us to deliver consistent outstanding 
results across our business units and geographic regions.

The financial highlights of 2014 include:

•  Sales increased 10.5% to a record US$4.8 billion

•  Our high margin Milwaukee Industrial Tool business grew 

22.2% globally, delivering a 3 year CAGR +20%

•  Growth in all geographic regions

•  Gross profit margin expanded 100 basis points

•  Net profit increased 20.0% for the year, delivering double  

digit growth for seven consecutive years

•  Efficient working capital management at 14.6% of sales

Record Sales and Profit
Sales for the year ended December 31, 2014 increased 10.5% 
over 2013 to US$4.8 billion driven by aggressive new product 
introductions and demand creation. Sales rose significantly in  
all key regions demonstrating the strength of our brands and  
new product development process. Our largest business unit, 
Power Equipment, had an exceptional year with sales growth  
of 13.0% to US$3.6 billion, accounting for 74.7% of total sales, 
and improved operating profit by 16.7% compared to 2013.  
Our Floor Care and Appliances business grew sales 3.8% to 
US$1.2 billion with operating profit expanding 15.4% from  
last year. The successful integration of the ORECK brand has 
strengthened our position in the North American premium floor 
care market.

Gross profit margin improved for the sixth consecutive year. 
Volume growth, operational leverage, productivity and new 

products expanded gross margin to 35.2% from 34.2% last year. 
Cost improvement initiatives across our global operations 
delivered significant savings in purchasing, supply chain,  
value engineering, and manufacturing. We continue to invest  
in automation and lean manufacturing driving both labor 
efficiency and overall productivity.

Earnings before interest and taxes, increased by 15.4% to 
US$351 million, with the margin improving by 30 basis points  
to 7.4%. We continued to invest in research and development  
to drive innovation, technology and new product development. 
This core strength is a competitive advantage in driving  
TTI’s success. Shareholders’ profits have risen by 20.0% to 
US$300 million, with earnings per share increasing by 20.0% 
over 2013 to US16.41 cents. Working capital as a percent of 
sales remains low at 14.6% with our gearing further improved  
to 10.0%.

The Board is recommending a final dividend of HK19.00 cents
(approximately US2.45 cents) per share.Together, with the interim 
dividend of HK12.50 cents (approximately US1.61 cents) per 
share, this will result in a full-year dividend of HK31.50 cents 
(approximately US4.05 cents) per share, against HK23.75 cents 
(approximately US3.06 cents) per share in 2013, an increase  
of 32.6%

Lithium Cordless Leadership
Through ongoing strategic investment in R&D, we continue to 
create break-through technology, expanding lithium cordless 
platforms and delivering broad-based end-user focused product 
ranges. We are at the forefront of the shift to lithium cordless 
products in the industrial and consumer tool, outdoor products 
and floor care segments.

MILWAUKEE had another strong year in 2014, delivering 22.2% 
growth in the global industrial tool market. New products powered 
by the M18 and M12 lithium cordless systems are keys to our 
growth strategy. The technologically advanced M18 FUEL and 

2

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Dividend per Share
US cents

Basic Earnings per Share
US cents

16.41

16

12

8

13.68

2013

2014

M12 FUEL ranges are the first industrial grade cordless power 
tools with true corded power tool performance. MILWAUKEE is 
leading the way in the corded-to-cordless transformation in the 
power tool industry.

The RYOBI ONE+ system has the broadest range of lithium 
cordless products in the consumer power tool and outdoor 
products segment. Our technology in lithium cordless has 
extended to the RYOBI 40V lithium cordless range of outdoor 
products. We continue to add to this exciting platform, offering 
users the power and run time of gas, but with the benefits of 
lithium. RYOBI ONE+ system is the number one DIY line of  
tools in the world.

We are driving the cordless transition in the consumer floor care 
market with the introduction of our first-to-market HOOVER and 
VAX lithium full size upright vacuums. We will continue with our 
innovation in cordless with exciting new products as we expand 
into new areas of cleaning.

Growth through Innovation
Hand tools continue to be a key strategic focus. Our portfolio of 
highly regarded hand tool brands, including the MILWAUKEE, 
STILETTO and HART professional products, has been  
further expanded with the acquisitions of the INDEX and  
EMPIRE businesses into measurement and layout categories. 
RYOBI PHONE WORKS is an exciting innovation which combines 
pro quality measuring tools with smart phone technology 
providing a better way to manage home improvement projects. 
The accessory business grew with broad-based innovation, such 
as the revolutionary jam-free step drill bit under MILWAUKEE and 
the integration of the world class KOTTMANN SDS chisel bits.

are delivering efficiencies, reducing lead-times and improving 
quality and service levels. We counteracted inflationary pressures 
in our operations, expanded gross margin and increased our 
manufacturing output through the same footprint. This commitment 
to operational excellence and continuous improvement keeps  
TTI on the leading edge of its industries. Sales grew at 10.5% 
with headcount expanding only 7.1%, reflecting outstanding 
productivity progress.

Exciting Outlook
With advancements in our RYOBI ONE+ system and MILWAUKEE 
M12, M18 and FUEL platforms, we are entering 2015 with the 
strongest product lineup ever. The expanding demand for our 
high performance RYOBI 40V lithium outdoor products and 
HOOVER and VAX lithium vacuums is quickly disrupting 
traditional markets. We are also excited about the RYOBI PHONE 
WORKS program as well as further expanding our hand tool and 
accessory product ranges for 2015. 

I would like to thank our customers, suppliers and employees for 
an incredible year in 2014 which saw demand for TTI products 
reach an all-time high. Our dedicated, skilled and passionate 
teams across the globe are enabling us to continuously achieve 
superb results. We are grateful to our board of directors for their 
ongoing strategic contributions and direction. Our success is  
truly the result of a dedicated team effort.

Driving Operational Productivity
Quality and continuous improvement systems are well established 
across all businesses with structured programs in place to drive 
out costs and produce high quality products. Our key initiatives  
in lean manufacturing, global purchasing, and value engineering 

Horst Julius Pudwill
Chairman
March 18, 2015

3

01234201420134.053.06Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Chief Executive Officer’s Message

Our success is driven by great products  
and great people. We are obsessively  
focused on these two critical factors for  
our long-term success at TTI.

I am pleased to report that in 2014 TTI made fabulous  
progress implementing what we consider to be the two most 
critical success factors in our business model. The first critical 
success factor is to be the global leader in developing innovative, 
disruptive, break-through new products. Our second critical 
success factor is to build, develop and mentor the most talented 
management team in our industry.

Great Products
We continue to strategically invest in disruptive innovation and 
break-through technologies. We have built a high-speed new 
product development engine at TTI that allows us to respond  
to changing market needs and requirements faster than any  
of our competitors. We believe our rapid development process  
is a fundamental competitive advantage.

Our strategic focus is to develop high-performance lithium 
cordless products throughout our brand platforms. Today, TTI  
is on the vanguard of lithium cordless technology offering the 
broadest range and best performing lithium powered products. 
Our MILWAUKEE FUEL brushless motor system is a revolutionary 
break-through in cordless power tools. With FUEL, we are building 
a premium priced platform of superior performing products that 
stimulate the conversion from corded to cordless tools globally. 
The momentum of FUEL is amazing, and will continue to 
increase with the vast potential of this incredible technology. 

Beyond FUEL, we continue to diversify and expand the  
RYOBI ONE+ lithium cordless platform which has become  
the broadest range and global leader in DIY products.  
The ONE+ battery platform is powering our growing offering of 
innovative power tools and outdoor products such as chainsaws, 
trimmers, and walk-behind lawnmowers. We are at the forefront 
of developing lithium cordless outdoor products. Across the globe 
we have launched a series of cordless battery platforms and new 
products to drive the adoption of lithium in the outdoor power 
equipment market.

We have applied our rapid product development process to  
our MILWAUKEE and HART hand tools businesses. We have gone 
from not participating in the hand tool market to being a major 
global player by introducing a stream of fully featured, innovative, 
and premium priced new hand tool products. We have enhanced 
this hand tool development process with the acquisition of 
EMPIRE level, the North American leader in high-technology level 
products. In the months and years to come, TTI will demonstrate 
clear leadership in the hand tool category by continuing to 
leverage our superior product development process.

Our floor care business is benefiting from the application  
of our lithium cordless technology. We are rolling out a series  
of high-performance cordless floor care products that we believe 
will revolutionize the industry. TTI continues to lead the industry 
in the evolution from corded to cordless products. 

4

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
Strategic Roadmap

Great People
The second critical success factor in our business model  
is building an outstanding team of highly talented people.  
Our organizational development initiatives have gained traction 
throughout the world. The Leadership Development Program 
(“LDP”) is now in its ninth year in the US where we have hired 
1,256 high-potential campus recruits. These LDPs are being 
trained, developed and promoted through the system and are 
taking on a vast array of assignments in product management, 
sales, marketing, purchasing, and supply chain management. 
This network of high-potential individuals forms the backbone  
of future TTI leaders.

We are highly encouraged by the traction our campus recruiting 
initiative is gaining throughout Europe where we have hired  
27 graduates in the past 12 months. These LDPs are now deployed 
in eight countries in a variety of positions. Additionally, the LDP 
program has been rolled out successfully in Canada, Australia,  
as well as China, where we have recruited 187 engineering 
graduates to form a pipeline of talent for our Asia Innovation Center 
and Asia Industrial Park. Because of TTI’s long-term commitment 
to hiring, training, mentoring, promoting, and developing talent, 
we have never been more confident in our ability to staff our 
growing network of global businesses.

We have a world-class group of senior managers that are leading 
our business units around the globe. We believe this leadership 
team is the best in our industry and key to our record breaking 
success year after year. I extend my appreciation and thanks  
to this team for their incredible hard work and consistent, 
outstanding performance.

In closing, I continue to be inspired by the visionary leadership  
of our Chairman, Horst Pudwill, who has a commanding presence 
and a bold vision for the future of TTI. His break-through thinking 
and exciting long-term targets motivate all of us throughout the 
company to continue to achieve record setting results.

Joseph Galli Jr
Chief Executive Officer
March 18, 2015

5

PowerfulBrandsInnovativeProductsExceptionalPeopleOperationalExcellenceTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools Overview

Sales by 
Business

74.7%

Power Equipment, 
Accessories and 
Hand Tools

25.3%

Floor Care and 
Appliances

Power Equipment is our largest business
and consists of power tools, hand tools,
outdoor products, and accessories. For the 
year, sales in Power Equipment rose by 
13.0% to US$3.6 billion with growth in all 
geographic markets and especially strong 
performance in our industrial division.  
The business accounted for 74.7% of  
Group turnover, against 73.1% in 2013. 
Based on new product introductions and 
enhancements in productivity, earnings 
grew 16.7% to US$305 million.

6

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014

M18 FUEL™ 7-1/4” CIRCULAR SAW
This powerful saw cuts faster than its corded 
counterparts while being an astonishing  
40% lighter. This dramatically reduces user 
fatigue. With a 2-1/2” cut capacity, this tool 
is designed for easy cutting, offering an LED 
light, dust blower and the right hand blade 
design users prefer.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014

7

Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools
Industrial Power Tools

DRIVEN TO OUTPERFORM.TM

TM

POWERSTATE ™ 
BRUSHLESS 
MOTOR 
 ■  MILWAUKEE® Designed and Built 

Brushless Motor

 ■  Outperforms All Leading Competitors
 ■ Longer Motor Life

REDLINK PLUS™
INTELLIGENCE
 ■  Most Advanced Electronic System on  
the Market for Maximum Performance

 ■  Total System Communication with  

Overload Protection Shuts Tool Down  
in Stall Situations

M
T

.0
5
C
X

REDLITHIUM™
XC5.0 BATTERY PACK
 ■ Most Durable Pack on the Market
 ■ Over 2X More Recharges  
than Leading Competitor

 ■ Fuel Gauge Displays Remaining Charge
 ■ Operates Below -18˚C / 0˚F

North America

International

8

™™

For the first time in power tool history, M18 FUEL™ products are 
delivering game-changing corded performance without the cord. 
The motors on MILWAUKEE® M18 FUEL™ tools are more powerful  
and energy efficient – outliving any other brand.

M18 FUEL™ 
SDS PLUS ROTARY HAMMERS
As a true breakthrough in cordless technology, these powerful tools drill even 
faster than their corded counterparts. Capable of delivering a full day’s work on 
one charge, our new 1” and 1-1/8” SDS Plus Rotary Hammers deliver fade 
free-power and the durability of a corded tool, even in climates below 0°F/-18°C. 
That means users can count on best-in-class performance, no matter what 
challenge the jobsite brings.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014M18 FUEL™ HOLE HAWG®
Optimized for electrical applications, this is the first cordless tool of its kind. This right angle drill is even faster 
than the original HOLE HAWG®, delivering over 150 (7/8”) holes per charge, and is over 30% lighter than its 
predecessor. It’s also equipped with our all-new QUIK-LOK™ Chuck, which offers keyless, one-handed bit 
changes for most 7/16” flat or groove shank bits.

M18 FUEL™ DEEP CUT BAND SAW
This saw offers all the performance and durability of our 
legendary corded band saws. With run-time lasting up to  
a full workday, it allows users to make a seamless shift to 
cordless with zero sacrifices.

M18 FUEL™  
7-1/4” CIRCULAR SAW
This powerful saw cuts faster than its corded 
counterparts while being an astonishing 
40% lighter. This dramatically reduces user 
fatigue. With a 2-1/2” cut capacity, this tool 
is designed for easy cutting, offering an LED 
light, dust blower and the right hand blade 
design users prefer.

®™

M12 FUEL™ is engineered for the most demanding 
tradesmen in the world and delivers unrivaled performance 
in a compact structure.

9

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools
Industrial Power Tools

™

REVOLUTIONARY PERFORMANCE
The MILWAUKEE® M18™ cordless system represents the ultimate synergy of 
professional grade power, light weight, extreme performance and superior ergonomics. 
These tools stand alone, with patented technologies, innovative motors and advanced 
electronics powered by REDLITHIUM™ battery technology for unmatched run-time. 
Offering more than 70 unique solutions, the M18™ family is the fastest growing  
18-volt cordless system on the market.

M18™ FORCE LOGIC™  
HIGH-CAPACITY KNOCKOUT TOOL
MILWAUKEE® is bringing unprecedented performance  
to the knockout category, with a system that speeds  
the process and limits user fatigue. Using a powerful 
hydraulic system and EXACT™ Punches and Dies, this 
system is able to punch up to 4” holes in 12-gauge 
stainless steel. With a Quick Connect Alignment System 
and compact right angle design, this powerful tool eases 
the tedious process of hole making. Each product within 
the MILWAUKEE® Knockout System was built on the 
principles of reducing the tedious steps of hole making, 
improving the speed of the process, and limiting the 
fatigue of the user. The result is a group of tools and 
accessories that redefine accuracy, durability, and 
productivity for the electrical contractor.

Our mission in cordless design is to 
introduce new solutions that make 
tradesmen on the jobsite more 
productive. Working side-by-side 
with users during the design and 
testing process gives us the ability 
to deliver game-changing solutions.

Products and Technology

Products
•  Cordless Power Tools, Corded Power Tools,  
Test & Measurement diagnostic equipment

Cordless Platforms
•  Lithium ion batteries M12™, M18™,  

M28® REDLITHIUM™

Technology
•  State-of-the-art motor technology –  
POWERSTATE™ Brushless Motor

•  Advanced electronics –  

REDLINK PLUS™ Intelligence

•  Up to 2X more run-time, 20% more power, and  
2X more recharges – REDLITHIUM™ Batteries 

End-Users

•  Mechanical, electrical, plumbing, remodeling 

and maintenance repair professionals

Distribution

•  Home Center channels, Hardware,  

Industrial MRO, Plumbing, Electrical,  
Farm and Agriculture, Construction and  
Automotive channels

10

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014M18™ COMPACT BRUSHLESS
Everything you expect from M18™, but with a  
MILWAUKEE® brushless motor which provides 50%  
longer run-time. Compact, lightweight structure is 
designed for maximum control and balance.

M18™ COMPACT BLOWER
As the most powerful compact cordless blower in its  
class, this tool is optimized for common construction  
debris, offering users a faster, more efficient way to clean up the jobsite.  
With a 3-speed electronic switch, variable speed trigger and optional 
lock-on switch, this blower delivers maximum versatility, while minimizing 
airborne dust and debris during cleanup.

M18™ RIGHT ANGLE IMPACT DRIVER
This impact driver offers ultimate speed and control in hard-to-reach fastening 
applications. It features a slim 1.7” head profile; an extended paddle switch, 
which allows users to operate their tool from multiple grip points; and an 8-point 
rotating head for access from multiple angles. What’s more, it’s the only tool  
in the category to offer multiple speed/torque modes through our proprietary 
2-MODE DRIVE CONTROL™.

™

PORTABLE PRODUCTIVITY
The MILWAUKEE® M12™ cordless system delivers industry-leading durability  
and power in a size that outperforms the competition in the tightest places.  
M12™ defines cordless tool innovation, transforming inefficient manual tools – 
such as cable and copper tubing cutters – into advanced workhorses powered  
by MILWAUKEE®’s REDLITHIUM™ battery technology. More than 70 unique 
solutions make the M12™ family the largest sub-compact cordless system on  
the market.

M12™ & M18™ TRUEVIEW™ LIGHTING
These products offer users best-in-class lighting 
solutions, with an even beam pattern that eliminates 
glare and shadows, and a true representation of detail 
and color in their working area.

11

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools
Accessories

Our mission for Power Tool 
Accessories is to deliver 
breakthrough innovations that solve 
jobsite problems and make our core 
users more productive. We are 
committed to pushing the limits  
of performance through investments 
in disruptive manufacturing 
technologies and creative designs. 
Our new product efforts produce 
visually differentiated attributes  
that reinforce a demonstrable 
performance advantage vs.  
our competition.

Products and Technology

Products
•  Saw blades and hole saws

•  Fastening accessories

•  Masonry drilling and demolition

•  Wood boring bits

•  Metal drill bits and cutters

Technology
•  Patented tooth forms including  

NAIL GUARD™ and RIP GUARD™

•  SHOCKWAVE™ Impact Duty technologies

•  JAM-FREE™ Step Bit geometry

•  DIAMOND PLUS™ Hole Saw technologies

•  SWITCHBLADE™ replacement blade  

technology for wood boring

12

Equipped with our RIP GUARD™ tooth geometry, 
this bi-metal hole saw is the most durable option 
for a large range of materials and applications.  
It also helps boost productivity, with innovative 
PLUG JACK™ slots that simplify wood and metal 
plug removal.

SHOCKWAVE™
Coupled with MILWAUKEE® Impact Drivers, these hole saws maximize the productivity of any contractor  
who has to work with sheet metal, from electricians to mechanical installers to general contractors.

Up To

40%

Faster

ENGINEERED FOR 
IMPACT DRIVERS

STOP SHOULDER
Prevents Over-Drilling

1/4” HEX SHANK
For Use in Impact Drivers

EJECTION SPRING
Automatically Removes Slugs

THIN WALL 8 TPI
Fast, Burr-Free Holes

®

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014MOST DURABLE 
HOLE SAW. 
PERIOD.

HIGH PERFORMANCE. BREAKTHROUGH PRODUCTIVITY.
We’ve developed a broad selection of hole making innovations to meet tool trends of our core trades.  
These accessories are designed to help users stay productive through a constant stream of new 
applications and installation challenges. 

ADJUSTABLE HOLE CUTTER

This tool is designed to meet the ever-changing 
needs of installation professionals. With the ability 
to create holes from 2" to 7-1/4" in drywall and 
ceiling tile, it can simplify a wide variety of lighting, 
home audio and home security system installs.

SAWZALL® METAL CUTTING BLADES
Our innovative DOUBLE DUTY UPGRADE™ gives these blades unparalleled toughness on the job. It starts with an optimized tooth form that delivers  
2X longer life. At the base, we designed an all-new TOUGH NECK™ tang that is the strongest on the market, eliminating a weak point found on many 
competitive blades. And finally, the entire blade is reinforced with our GRID IRON™ stamped honeycomb pattern, for the stiffest blade on the market today.

versus previous SAWZALL® recip blades

13

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools
Hand Tools

With over 300 new tools and 
counting, we’re continuously 
expanding our Hand Tool line. 
Dedicated to delivering solutions  
to increase productivity, the Hand 
Tool group focuses on providing 
application-specific features to  
the electrical, mechanical, HVAC, 
MRO and remodeling trades.

Products and Technology

Products
•  Cutting and Fastening 

•  Tape Measures

•  Layout 

•  Blades

•  Screwdriving

•  Saws

•  Knives

Technology
•  Tape measure nylon bond blade protection  

for up to 10X longer life

•  Micro carbide dispersed metal utility blades  

for up to 3X longer life

•  Jobsite Stylus Marker

Platforms

•  FASTBACK™ Knives and Utility Knives, 

HOLLOW-CORE™ Nut Drivers, INKZALL™  
Jobsite Markers, TORQUE LOCK™  
Locking Pliers

14

TAPE MEASURES  
Tape measures deliver 10X longer life than the competition because of proprietary 
Nylon Bond Blade Protection, and a 5-point reinforced frame for drop protection. 
These are the most durable tape measures in the industry today.

SOFT SIDE STORAGE
With durable 1680D material and double stitched riveted 
seams for wear protection, this storage is truly built for  
the trade. The Jobsite Backpack features a laptop pocket 
and a padded, breathable, load-bearing harness for 
ultimate comfort and less user fatigue.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014BROAD RANGE OF INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS

STAPLE & NAIL GUN
We gave users what they wanted in this tool, with up to 75% more 
driving power than the competition and a dual-mode power switch for 
ultimate driving control in a wide variety of jobsite materials.

HAMMER TACKER
Featuring an all-metal design and a protected, 
jam-free magazine, this tool lasts up to 3X longer 
than competitive hammer tackers, setting new 
standards for both reliability and durability.

PRECISION SCREWDRIVERS
These drivers are built to last. Precision-machined 
tips provide long life and a secure fit. An all-metal 
core offers 4X strength. Plus, the longer shanks and 
extended reach design improve visibility and reach.

PLIERS
Designed from the ground-up with trade-specific 
features, our expanding lineup of fastening and 
cutting pliers delivers superior performance 
tailored to the application. With slimmer grips  
and carefully selected materials, these tools are  
up to 30% lighter than their predecessors.

15

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools
Layout and Measuring Tools

VIAL TECHNOLOGY
By focusing on users and how they do  
their jobs, EMPIRE® crafts innovative vial 
technology that blows away the competition 

in readability, accuracy and durability.  

Each vial then undergoes a rigorous 

10-point quality inspection to ensure  

it delivers the precision and toughness 

required for true professional results.

LEVELS
EMPIRE® is constantly evolving level technology to fit the 
way users work. EMPIRE®’s TRUE BLUE® line of levels 
are tested for 10-position accuracy at 0.0005”, making 
them the only levels to guarantee an accurate read at 
every possible level and plumb working position. 

In addition to accuracy, users demand durability. Each 
level frame is designed to endure the impacts of heavy 
jobsite use. Features such as shock resistant endcaps 
and integrated vial surrounds protect the level and 
ensure better accuracy over time.

Torpedo Levels

I-beam Levels

Digital Levels

SQUARES
Delivering maximum visibility, pinpoint 
accuracy, and unparalleled durability, 
EMPIRE®’s line of squares are designed 
to meet the highest standards in layout. 

EMPIRE® offers a wide range of 
squares that withstand the toughest 
jobsite conditions and offer the extreme 
precision that a professional requires. 

For over 90 years, EMPIRE® has been 
the leading designer and innovator 
of accurate and durable layout  
and measuring tools. With industry 
firsts such as the Monovial, the 
Torpedo Level, the Magnetic Level, 
and most recently TRUE BLUE® – 
the most accurate vials and levels  
in the world, EMPIRE® continues its 
tradition of developing innovative 
solutions focused on improving 
productivity and user experience.

Products and Technology

Products
•  Levels, Squares, Tape Measures, String Tools,  

Precision Tools, Safety & Utility Products

Technology
•  TRUE BLUE® Monovial and Block Vial 

Technology, Advanced Concentric Molding, 
Advanced Digital Electronics, Laser Etching, 
EMPIRE® Viewing System, eShock Endcaps

End-Users

•  A variety of tradesmen including carpenters, 

masons, plumbers and electricians

Distribution

•  Home Centers, hardware, industrial MRO, 

plumbing and electrical channels

16

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014STILETTO® sets the standard with 
premium Titanium hand tools and 
hammers that are 45% lighter than 
steel, while providing the same 
striking force and strength. In 
addition, Titanium tools produce 
10X less recoil shock, which means 
less down time due to injury, more 
productivity and most importantly 
less pain while getting the job done.

As a truly premium brand, owning a STILETTO®  
product is a point of pride for carpenters. Users  
often send in pictures of their STILETTO® tattoos  
and personal stories of how our tools eliminated the 
inflammation and pain that once plagued them on the job. 

APPLICATION-
SPECIFIC TOOLS
Tools such as the Lath and 
Drywall Axes provide the 
benefits of lightweight titanium 
in specialty applications. That 
means less fatigue at the end of 
a long work day.

HART® products focus on delivering 
innovative Signature Features  
such as exceptional weight balance 
ratio, polished hammer heads, 
progressive angled face hammer 
designs, side nail pulls, forged heads 
and POWERSTRIKE™ faces. In 
addition, HART® Tools are designed 
and built to withstand the rigors of a 
Professional Jobsite. HART®’s line of 
innovative products assure you that  
NOTHING HITS HARDER™.

HART® 12LB SLEDGE HAMMER
Power through demolition 44% more 
efficiently with the patented POWERSTRIKE™ 
face Signature Feature.

HART® 3.5LB AXE
is equipped with an  
arsenal Signature Features 
including Face Cutouts,  
a Forged Head, SUREGRIP™ 
overmold, and much more.

17

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools
Professional Power Tools

The AEG® power tools brand has 
been delivering high-performance 
tools since 1898. Over a 100 years 
later and nothing has changed, 
AEG® Power Tools continues to  
push boundaries and innovate with a 
current focus on the cordless sector, 
harnessing lithium ion power as well 
as a myriad of traditional but highly 
innovative corded tools.

Products and Technology

Products
•  Cordless and Corded Power Tools

Cordless Platforms
•  PRO LITHIUM ION™ Cordless System 12-volt 

14.4-volt and 18-volt

•  OMNIPRO® Multi Tool system with 

interchangeable heads

•  Cordless and Corded Power Tools,  

and support accessories

End-Users

•  Professional Tradesmen, Contractors

Distribution

•  Professional/Traditional trade and  

wholesale distribution

•  Professional section of Modern channels  

and Home Centers

18-VOLT BRUSHLESS 7-1/4” CIRCULAR SAW
This compact circular saw delivers more power, 
more cuts and longer motor life than ever before. 
Compact motor housing enables use in tight  
spaces, and the LED light with independent  
switch for cut illumination delivers optimal 
accuracy and precision.Including a 185mm  
blade for larger cutting capacity than standard 
18-volt saws

18-VOLT BRUSHLESS
AEG® Brushless is built to last.  
The brushless technology provides  
greater torque, longer run-time, and  
2X the motor life of a brushed motor.  
Also delivering a quieter output than 
brushed motors and less maintenance 
required to manage your tool.

18-VOLT BRUSHLESS 
HAMMER DRILL
Delivering a powerful  
80nm of torque together  
with 28,800 B/pm the  
18-volt Brushless Hammer  
Drill provides maximum 
performance for the  
hardest working tradesmen.

18-VOLT BRUSHLESS 
IMPACT DRIVER
With its class leading  
max torque of 200nm  
and compact size  
(weighing only 1.03kg 
without the battery), the  
18-volt Brushless Impact  
Driver is built for heavy  
duty applications.

North America

Europe

Australia

18

AEG® BRUSHLESS available in Europe from Q4, 2015

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201418-VOLT – BEST FOR POWER

12-VOLT – BEST FOR ERGONOMICS

CORDED – BEST FOR RUNTIME

OMNIPRO® MULTI TOOL
Designed to enable users to tailor their system depending on 
application, the OMNIPRO® 12-volt and 18-volt are perfect for 
those looking for cordless machines with the kind of power 
associated with an corded machine. Professional tradesmen will 
be particularly attracted to the interchangeable heads and bodies, 
which will enables them to select the best balance of power base 
and head for ultimate productivity. The OMNIPRO® 12-volt boasts 
an incredibly lightweight and compact ergonomic design ideal for 
challenging jobs in tight spaces. The 18-volt provides greater power 
and run-time, but maintains the advantage of cordless portability.

It’s this winning combination of power and design alongside  
multi-functionality that makes the OMNIPRO® Multi Tool one  
of the most useful tools in today’s market.

Getting the job done in  
restricted space without 
compromising on power is  
easy with the OMNIPRO® system.  
Simply alternate the interchangeable 
heads across all applications rather 
than having to stop work to go and 
pick up your next tool.

18-VOLT BRUSHLESS GRINDER
Providing corded power performance the  
18-volt Brushless Grinder is a best-in-class.  
Including current overload protection,  
line lock out feature, tool free burst resistant  
guard for ease of adjustment and user safety  
and Anti Vibe System to ensure the user 
experience is optimized.

19

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools
Consumer and Trade Power Tools

RYOBI® 18-VOLT ANGLED FINISH NAILER
RYOBI® 18-VOLT ONE+ SYSTEM® Angled Finish Nailer fires up  
to 750 nails and install crown molding, hang doors, stair treads 
and exterior trim with the new 15 gauge Angled Finish Nailer 
featuring AIRSTRIKE™ Technology

RYOBI® brand offers the most 
extensive award winning and 
innovative line of consumer  
focused products and accessories 
for worldwide use. The RYOBI®  
power tool range is anchored  
by the 18-VOLT ONE+ SYSTEM®  
of over 50 products, ranging from 
drills, drivers, saws and trimmers  
to sanders.

Products and Technology

Products
•  Cordless and Corded Power Tools

•  Power Tool Accessories

Technology
•  18-VOLT ONE+ SYSTEM®

•  Lithium ion & LITHIUM ION+™

•  AIRSTRIKE™

•  Dual Power Hybrid

•  RYOBI® PHONE WORKS™ SYSTEM & App

Accessories Technology
•  SPEEDLOAD+®

•  Universal Shank Jigsaw Blades

End-Users

•  Do-It-Yourselfers and Cost Conscious 

Professionals

Distribution

•  Home Centers and Hardware stores

North America

Europe

Australia & New Zealand

20

™

RYOBI® ONE+® AIRSTRIKE™
The ONE+® Brad Nailer, Finish Nailer, Angled  
Finish Nailer and Narrow Crown Stapler features 
AIRSTRIKE™ Technology, which eliminates the 
need for noisy compressors, bulky hoses or 
expensive gas cartridges. This means faster setup 
and easier maneuvering on the job site or at home.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014RYOBI® 18-VOLT ONE+ SYSTEM®
Continues to enhance and expand its over 50 tools that work  
with the same battery platform, giving you the ultimate versatility 
in tool selection to get your job finished. With upgraded 
LITHIUM+™ batteries, you can get more done in less time  
and improve the performance of every RYOBI® 18-volt tool  
ever made. No matter how you add it up, ONE+® is the  
one system that delivers more.

TM

RYOBI® ONE+® HYBRID 
Never run out of power with the convenient option 
of using a ONE+® battery or switch over to electric 
power with an extension cord for extended use. 
The 18-VOLT ONE+ SYSTEM® Dual-power 20 Watt 
LED Work Light has more than 1,700 lumens to 
illuminate a large work area.

RYOBI® PHONE WORKS™ SYSTEM
Upgrade from expensive, single-function hand tools  
and transform your phone into your smartest tool with  
PHONE WORKS™ products and mobile App. 

21

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools
Outdoor Products

There are more than 50 great tools  
in the 18-VOLT ONE+ SYSTEM®. Each  
tool is compatible with each battery.

RYOBI® Outdoor Products  
brings the most innovative and  
comprehensive tool system to the 
market. The 18-VOLT ONE+ SYSTEM® 
is compatible with all drills, string 
trimmer, blowers and hedge trimmers 
since 1996 while the 40-VOLT  
lithium ion system is made up of  
10+ tools and growing. Innovative 
battery technology, brushless motors 
and consistent battery platforms  
keep the Do-It Yourself homeowner  
charged with tools for every job.

Products and Technology 

Products 
•  Gas and Electric Powered Trimmers, Blowers, 
Chainsaws, Hedge Trimmers, Lawn Mowers, 
Pressure Washers and Generators

Cordless Technology
•  4-volt, 18-volt, 36-volt & 40-volt lithium ion 

systems, Brushless Motor Technology increases 
efficiency and optimizes performance of the tool

Accessory Technology
•  EXPAND-IT® Attachments

End-Users

•  Do-It-Yourself home owners and  

garden enthusiasts

Distribution

•  Home Centers, Garden Centers and  

Hardware Stores

22

RYOBI® brand brings revolutionary hybrid technology  
to the outdoor power market place. Dual-power source 
options with a battery or corded connection for  
limitless power and mobility.

Your Choice

OR

Cordless

Electric

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201440-VOLT JET FAN BLOWER
The RYOBI® 40-volt Jet Fan Blower features GAS-LIKE POWER™  
without the hassle of gas and oil. The unique jet fan design  
optimizes air flow to produce 155 MPH and 300CFM of power. 
Featuring a variable speed trigger for air speed control and an  
overall sleek design with a soft grip handle for user comfort, the 
RYOBI® 40-volt Jet Fan Blower will tackle any clearing job with ease.

INDUSTRY LEADING BATTERIES
Being the industry leaders in lithium ion 
technology, the RYOBI® 40-volt batteries provide 
the power and run-time for every job.

The 40-volt system is growing with each season.  
All tools and batteries are compatible with any  
of the 10+ tools. 

23

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014INVERTER GENERATOR

POWER WHERE YOU NEED IT
RYOBI® brand provides power for your 
sensitive electronics and job-site tools.  
The portable inverter generator will power 
tools when and where you need it.

Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools
Outdoor Products

FULL CRANK ENGINE 
FOR 2X LONGER LIFE

RYOBI® brand introduces Full Crank  
String Trimmers to the market place;  
featuring quality engines for  
longer life and less vibrations.

POWERFUL CLEANING
RYOBI® brand offers a premium line of  
gas pressure washers powered by  
Honda engines and featuring exclusive  
innovation like IDLEDOWN™ and 
POWERCONTROL™ Technology.

BEST IN CLASS PERFORMANCE
RYOBI® brand introduces a line of electric  
pressure washers featuring a durable  
roll-cage frame design, turbo nozzle,  
quick connect nozzles and an on-board  
detergent tank, all backed by  
a three year warranty.

RYOBI® brand brings premium 
engines, innovative features and 
best in class motors to its products.  
Offering a complete line of gas  
and electric pressure washers,  
gas string trimmers, hedge  
trimmers, blowers, chainsaws  
and generators, RYOBI® brand has  
a tool for every garden enthusiast.

Products and Technology 

Products 
•  Gas and Electric Powered Trimmers, Blowers, 
Chainsaws, Hedge Trimmers, Lawn Mowers, 
Pressure Washers and Generators

Accessory Technology
•  EXPAND-IT® Attachments

End-Users

•  Do-It-Yourself home owners and  

garden enthusiasts

Distribution

•  Home Centers, Garden Centers and  

Hardware Stores

24

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014HOMELITE® Consumer Products 
manufactures a full line of Outdoor 
Power Equipment including string 
trimmers, blowers, chainsaws,  
hedge trimmers, pressure washers, 
generators and outdoor accessories 
for the consumer, do-it-yourself and 
garden enthusiast.

Products and Technology

Products
•  Gas and Electric Powered Trimmers, Blowers, 
Chainsaws, Hedge Trimmers, Lawn Mowers, 
Log Splitters, Pressure Washers, Generators

Technology
•  HOMELITE® products are designed to  
provide consumers great performance  
at an incredible value

End-Users

•  Home owners and garden enthusiasts

Distribution

•  Home Centers, Garden Centers and  

Hardware Stores

HOMELITE® delivers dependable,  
lightweight electric and  
gas products at  
an affordable price. 

RELIABLE POWER
HOMELITE® provides easy starting

and reliable tools for any outdoor

weekend project. Whether you need  
a tool for an occasional task or if you are

in need of reliable unit for routine use,

HOMELITE® tools provide the power  
you need.

DEPENDABLE 
CLEANING
HOMELITE® offers a line  
of entry level gas pressure 
washers, delivering 
maximum power.

25

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Floor Care and Appliances Overview

Sales by 
Business

Floor Care and Appliances achieved  
another solid year on sales of US$1.2 billion 
accounting for 25.3% of group turnover.  
We realized significant profit improvements 
through realignment of operations and a 
focus on leveraging scale and optimizing 
supply chain.

25.3%

Floor Care and 
Appliances

74.7%

Power Equipment, 
Accessories and 
Hand Tools

HOOVER® AIR® CORDLESS LIFT 
UPRIGHT VACUUM
The AIR® Cordless Lift is the first full-size 
vacuum with detachable lift canister from 
HOOVER®. Two LITHIUMLIFE™ batteries 
provide an average of 50 minutes of fade-free 
battery power on carpet and hard floors.*

®

*The LITHIUMLIFE™ battery provides full air power while the battery discharges.

26

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014

27

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Floor Care and Appliances
Floor Care and Appliances

AIR® CORDLESS SERIES

HOOVER® is creating the future  
of Floor Care. Our innovation shows 
how we’re changing with people’s 
ever-evolving homes and lives.  
And each of the 1,100 patents 
worldwide help create new, powerful 
and desirable cleaning options  
for everyone.

Products and Technology

Products
•  Upright – Bagged and Bagless

•  Canister – Bagged and Bagless

•  Stick

•  Lithium ion Cordless

•  Handheld Vacuums

•  Carpet Washers and Solutions

•  Hard Floor Cleaners and Solutions

•  Steam Cleaners and Cleaning Solutions

•  Specialty Garage Utility

•  Cleaning Systems and Air Purification

Technology
•  WINDTUNNEL® and WINDTUNNEL® MAX™, 
Multipurpose SPINSCRUB®, MAX EXTRACT®,  
MAX EXTRACT® Pressure Pro, Bagged,  
Bagless Cyclonic, Dual Tank Water Filtration, 
LITHIUMLIFE® and DUALTECH™

Distribution

•  Leading Home Centers, Mass Merchants, 
Catalogue, TV Shopping, Online Retailers

*The LITHIUMLIFE® battery provides full air power 
while the battery discharges.

28

FLOORMATE® DELUXE
The lightweight and maneuverable 
FLOORMATE® Deluxe replaces the 
bucket, mop and scrub brush.  
Dirt is scrubbed away with 
SPINSCRUB® technology to deliver 
the best clean while gently and 
safely scrubbing hard floors.  
Dual tanks are easy to fill and 
empty ensuring clean water is  
all that touches the floor.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Finally, a full-size cordless vacuum that can clean your whole home. Built on the foundation of the popular 
AIR® range and powered by LITHIUMLIFE® technology, AIR® Cordless provides full upright power and 
convenience with a 50-minute* runtime and an ultra-light 9.9lbs frame – all without the hassle of a cord.

WINDTUNNEL® 3 TECHNOLOGY
Lift deep down messes. Three channels of suction 
lift and remove surface debris and deep down 
embedded dirt. Vacuums without WINDTUNNEL® 
Technology rely on only one channel of suction.

REMOVABLE CANISTER
Our latest technologies include powerful 
cleaners with a removable canister for 
hard-to-reach areas like stairs and high above 
floors where traditional uprights can’t reach.

*on average on carpet and hard floors using two batteries

POWER PATH® PRO  
CARPET WASHER
The POWER PATH® Pro Carpet Washer cleans  
in two ways. It features a rotating brushroll and  
our patented SPINSCRUB® Technology to lift and 
remove tough carpet stains. These two powerful 
scrubbing systems deep clean the whole home 
with 8ft. of above floor reach.

AIR® STEERABLE
Powerful. Steerable. 
Lightweight. Another 
innovative addition to  
the AIR® range of products, 
the highly-maneuverable 
AIR® Steerable twists  
and turns while  
delivering confident 
whole-home cleaning.

29

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Floor Care and Appliances
Floor Care and Appliances

MAGNESIUM® RS

ORECK® has earned its mark for 
making the finest vacuums with  
the premium service. Originally a 
hotel industry vacuum manufacturer, 
ORECK® is still driven by a singular, 
consumer-satisfying goal: to provide 
easy-to-use, lightweight and durable 
cleaners – each with exceptional 
power – for every room in the house. 

Products and Technology

Products
•  Upright – Bagged and Bagless

•  Canister – Bagged and Bagless

•  Stick

•  Handheld Vacuums

•  Carpet Washers and Solutions

•  Hard Floor Cleaners and Solutions

•  Steam Cleaners and Cleaning Solutions

•  Cleaning Systems and Air Purification

•  Cleaning Solutions

Technology 
•  SANISEAL® bag system, QUICKSWITCH®, 
SLIMSWIVEL™, HEPA media, Easy Snap  
Cord Clip, TRUMAN CELL® Technology,  
PATH™ filtration system, SPINBRUSH 360™, 
Smart Suction

Distribution

•  387 Exclusive and authorized stores in major  
US Metropolitan Areas, National Commercial 
Accounts, QVC, Amazon & Oreck.com online, 
Axe Houghton in Canada

30

SURFACESCRUB™ 
HARD FLOOR 
CLEANER
SURFACESCRUB™ is our first 
hard floor cleaner that scrubs, 
washes and dries all in one 
motion. Simply move forward  
to gently scrub your floors with 
SPINBRUSH 360™ Technology 
then pull it back to dry with 
powerful suction. 

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014MAGNESIUM® RS is the lightest ORECK® product. At only 7.7lbs. It’s incredibly powerful, durable and 
revolutionary. It’s a cleaner that fits in even the most modern homes but finds function in form with an easy 
SLIMSWIVEL® design low that slips under couches and around furniture with ease.

TWO-SPEED QUICKSWITCH®
The MAGNESIUM® RS moves smoothly across all 
floor types with two power levels: high for carpets 
and low for hardwoods and tile. It’s even gentle 
enough for fine Oriental and Persian rugs on  
low speed.

SLIMSWIVEL® DESIGN 
It powerfully swerves to save time and effort when 
cleaning around and under furniture. It virtually 
lies flat to cover more ground and quickly gets in 
tight spots.

AIR INSTINCT®
We combined advanced technology, 
premium design and true HEPA  
filtration to take the guesswork out of  
air purification. Its innovative APS™ 
technology continuously monitors  
particles in the air and adjusts the fan 
speed while the 3-Stage PATH™ Filtration 
system captures dust, pet dander  
and allergens.

REVITALIZE™ 
CARPET WASHER
DUOSCRUB™ Technology 
combines SPINBRUSH 360™ 
Technology with a brushroll  
to create ORECK®’s most 
powerful deep cleaning 
system yet. It helps remove 
tough set-in stains and  
more with an 8ft. hose  
and upholstery tool for  
stairs, furniture and  
hard-to-reach areas. 

31

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Floor Care and Appliances

AIR® CORDLESS FAMILY

VAX® is the UK’s bestselling Floor 
Care brand. And the only company 
in the UK to offer cleaning products 
in every category. 

From carpet cleaners, upright and 
canister vacuum cleaners to steam, 
cordless and hard floor cleaners – 
we listen to our customer so we can 
design with their needs in mind.

Products and Technology 

Products 
•  Carpet Cleaners

•  Upright/Canister Vacuums

•  Hard Floor Cleaners

•  Lithium ion Cordless

•  VAX® Cleaning Solutions

•  VAX® CLEAN WITH NO MACHINE™ solutions

Technology
•  Heated Cleaning, Single Cyclonic, Multi-cyclonic, 
DUAL V® Twin Air Path Suction, SPINSCRUB® 
deep cleaning, HEPA H12 Filtration

End-Users

•  Domestic and commercial cleaners who are 

looking for high-performing products that meet 
quality, service, range and price criteria

Distribution

•  Mass Merchandisers, Electrical Multiples, 
Grocery Retailers, Do-It-Yourself Retailers,  
TV Shopping, Online Retailers and Direct

32

STEAM FRESH  
COMBI 10-IN-1
This lightweight steam  
cleaner with a detachable 
handheld cleaner is for total 
home cleaning. It comes  
with a 9-piece accessory kit  
for almost every household 
cleaning task including 
cleaning sealed wood floors, 
ovens, taps, tile grout  
and windows.

FLOORMATE® 
DELUXE
Replace the mop, bucket and 
scrub brush with a lightweight 
and maneuverable hard floor 
cleaner. It features Clean Boost 
for targeting stains and high 
traffic areas for extra cleaning 
power. SPINSCRUB® 
technology delivers the best 
clean while gently and safely 
scrubbing hard floors. 

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014The VAX® Cordless range has the power to change the way you clean. We created a family of 
LITHIUMLIFE® powered cordless cleaners designed to bring the convenience of cord-free cleaning  
to every room in your home. 

WINDTUNNEL® 3 TECHNOLOGY
Lift deep down messes. Three channels of suction 
lift and remove surface debris and deep down 
embedded dirt. Vacuums without WINDTUNNEL® 
Technology rely on only one channel of suction.

REMOVABLE CANISTER
Our latest technologies include powerful cleaners 
with a removable canister for hard-to-reach areas 
like stairs and high above floors where traditional 
uprights can’t reach.

DUAL POWER PRO & DUAL POWER 
PRO ADVANCE CARPET CLEANER
This powerful, quick drying carpet cleaner  
duo has extra-large tank capacity and  
DUAL V® Technology with a wide cleaning  
path for capturing deep down dirt. A 2.5m  
stretch hose cleans above the floor and up  
and down stairs with ease.

AIR® STEERABLE 
ULTRA LITE
This compact and 
lightweight upright  
vacuum is equipped with 
multi-cyclonic technology 
for powerful suction  
across both carpets  
and hard floors. Despite 
being compact in size,  
this vacuum still has a  
full size capacity while 
weighing 4.1kg. 

33

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Floor Care and Appliances

QUICK CLEAN FAMILY

DIRT DEVIL® stands for convenience 
and value in a contemporary design.

Each product is engineered to 
efficiently clean with bonus features 
that make cleaning feel less like 
work. From quick cleanups to 
whole-house cleaning, DIRT DEVIL® 
has options to fit the way you clean.

Products and Technology

Products
•  Uprights – Bagged and Bagless

•  Canisters – Bagged and Bagless

•  Stick Vacs

•  Hand Vacs

•  Steam Cleaners

•  Carpet Washers and Solutions

•  Pressure Washers

•  Robotic Vacuums and Accessories

Technology
•  Bagged, Bagless, Cyclonic, Corded & Cordless

Distribution

•  Leading Home Centers, Mass Merchants, 
Catalogue, TV Shopping, Online Retailers

34

360° REACH™
This innovative design is versatile 
enough to clean where most upright 
vacuums can’t. 360° REACH™ 
cleans from floor to ceiling with 
Vac+Dust Tools with SWIPES™ and 
the powered stair and upholstery tool 
to cover every part of each step.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014The DIRT DEVIL® quick cleaning lineup tackles messes without the hassle of a broom and the waste of 
disposable pads. It includes steam, spray and dust cleaning options that are quick, simple and easy to use 
on any sealed hard floor surface.

FLEXIBLE EDGES
The SWIPES™ microfiber pad covers baseboards 
and floors at the same time, easily capturing dirt 
and dust in corners and other tight spaces.

WASHABLE MICROFIBER PADS
The super-soft yet durable microfiber cloth can be 
tossed in the wash then reused for long-lasting use.

REBEL® 50 WHITE
Silent. Powerful. Futuristic. The 
REBEL® finds its own path with 
Smart Air Technology that provides 
an optimized air flow thanks to 
perfect shaping and a casing 
sealing. The air flow stays 
connected and powerful on its 
whole way from the nozzle through 
the filter system to the air outlet.

THE HAND VAC 2.0
This next generation hand vac still 
has the power of an upright for 
couches, corners, cars upholstery 
and more. Now included is a 20ft. 
power cord, easy empty dirt cup 
and reusable quick-rinse filter.

LIFT & GO™
The first upright with 
removal canister from  
DIRT DEVIL® provides a 
perfect solution for anything 
above floor, including stairs, 
bookcases and everything 
in between. With its own 
Vac+Dust floor tool and 
10ft. extended hose,  
LIFT & GO™ can get into  
every corner of the home 
with ease.

35

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Board of Directors

Group Executive Directors

Horst Julius Pudwill MSc 
Chairman

Joseph Galli Jr BSBA, MBA
Chief Executive Officer

36

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill, aged 70, is Chairman of TTI, a position  
he has held since he jointly founded the Group in 1985. Until 2008, 
he also served as Chief Executive Officer. As Chairman, Mr Pudwill 
focuses on the strategic planning and development of the Group  
and continues to have oversight of the operations, with the  
Chief Executive Officer reporting directly to him. Mr Pudwill has 
extensive experience in international trade, business and commerce. 
Mr Pudwill is also a director of Sunning Inc. which has an interest  
in the equity of the Company.

Mr Pudwill holds a Master of Science Degree in Engineering and  
a General Commercial Degree.

Mr Pudwill is the father of Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill,  
Group Executive Director and President of Strategic Planning.

Mr Joseph Galli Jr, aged 56, joined the Group in 2006 as the  
Chief Executive Officer of Techtronic Appliances and was appointed 
as Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director of TTI effective 
February 1, 2008. He is responsible for integrating acquisitions in 
North America and Europe, and enhancing the global sales potential 
of the Group’s strong brand portfolio. He is also responsible for 
leading the management team in the Group’s daily operation.

Mr Galli joined Black & Decker in 1980 where he worked for over  
19 years and held various high level management positions, rising to 
the position of President of Worldwide Power Tools and Accessories. 
During his tenure at Black & Decker, he was responsible for highly 
successful launch of the “DeWalt®” Brand heavy duty power tools  
in 1992. After leaving Black & Decker, Mr Galli joined Amazon.com 
where he was President and Chief Operating Officer from  
1999 to 2000. From 2001 to 2005, he was a Director and  
Chief Executive Officer of Newell Rubbermaid Inc. 

Mr Galli graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1980  
with a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration. In 1987,  
he obtained an MBA from Loyola College in Baltimore, Maryland.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Patrick Kin Wah Chan FCCA, FCPA
Operations Director 

Frank Chi Chung Chan ACA, FCCA, FCPA, CPA (Practising)
Group Chief Financial Officer

Stephan Horst Pudwill
President of Strategic Planning

Mr Patrick Kin Wah Chan, aged 55, joined the Group in 1988 and 
was appointed as Executive Director in 1990. He is now in charge of 
the manufacturing operations of the Group.

Mr Chan is currently the Vice-Chairman of the Dongguan City 
Association of Enterprises with Foreign Investment, the Chairman of 
Houjie Association of Enterprises with Foreign Investment. He is also 
the Vice-Director of Electric Tool Sub-Association of China Electrical 
Equipment Industrial Association.

Mr Chan is a fellow member of The Association of Chartered Certified 
Accountants and the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants. 

Mr Frank Chi Chung Chan, aged 61, joined the Group in 1991 and 
was appointed as Executive Director in 1992. He is now responsible 
for corporate affairs and financial management of the Group.

Mr Chan is a fellow member of The Association of Chartered Certified 
Accountants and the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants, a member of The Institute of Chartered Accountants in 
England & Wales, an associate of the Taxation Institute of Hong Kong 
and qualified to practise as a Certified Public Accountant in  
Hong Kong. 

Mr Chan is currently an Independent Non-executive Director of  
Gold Peak Industries (Holdings) Limited which is listed on the stock 
exchange of Hong Kong.

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill, aged 38, joined the Group in 2004  
and was appointed as Executive Director in 2006. He is mainly 
responsible for managing, improving and monitoring internal 
operations and identifying synergistic business opportunities  
within the Group.

Prior to joining the Group, Mr Pudwill held managerial positions at 
Daimler Chrysler AG that included product marketing and strategic 
planning for the Mercedes-Benz car group.

Mr Pudwill holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree from the University of 
British Columbia and is Mr Horst Julius Pudwill’s son.

37

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP, aged 62, is a Co-founder of TTI.  
Prof Chung, previously the Group Managing Director since 1985,  
was appointed as the Group Vice Chairman and Executive Director  
of the Company on April 18, 2007. He has been re-designated to 
Non-executive Director of the Company with effect from July 1, 2011.

Prof Chung holds a Doctor of Engineering Degree from the University 
of Warwick, United Kingdom and Doctor of Business Administration 
Degree from City University of Macau. He was appointed as an 
Industrial Professor by the University of Warwick, United Kingdom  
in December 2010. He was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Business 
Administration by the Hong Kong Polytechnic University in 2007  
and awarded an Honorary Doctorate Degree by the University of 
Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia in 2006. He was awarded  
the Bronze Bauhinia Star (BBS) Medal by the Hong Kong SAR 
Government on July 1, 2011. He was also appointed as Justice  
of Peace by the Hong Kong SAR Government on July 1, 2005  
and won the Hong Kong Young Industrialists Award in 1997. In 
November 2014, he was further awarded the Industrialist of the Year.

Prof Chung is highly dedicated to the advancement of industry and 
was the Chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries until 
July 5, 2013. In addition, Prof Chung holds positions on a number  
of Hong Kong SAR Government advisory committees and is also  
an active member of many social committees and associations. 

Prof Chung is also an Independent Non-executive Director of  
KFM Kingdom Holdings Limited, TK Group (Holdings) Limited  
and Fujikon Industrial Holdings Limited (with effective from  
April 1, 2014). Prof Chung retired as Independent Non-executive 
Director of Kin Yat Holdings Limited with effective from  
August 25, 2014.

Board of Directors

Non-executive Director

Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS, JP

38

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Independent Non-executive Directors 

Joel Arthur Schleicher CPA, BSB

Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher, aged 63, was appointed as an 
Independent Non-executive Director in 1998. He has over 30 years 
of management experience in the manufacturing and technology/
telecom services sectors.

Mr Schleicher is currently involved with several initiatives in  
Cyber Security, while also serving as a Managing Director for  
MWB Investments, LLC. 

Previously Mr Schleicher was the Founder, Chairman and CEO of 
Presidio, Inc. (2004-2011) the foremost professional and managed 
services provider in North American, at the forefront of Virtualization/
Data Center; Collaboration and other advanced IT infrastructure 
solutions. Prior he has worked with private equity firms as  
a consultant, advisor, board member and held portfolio 
management roles including as Chairman and CEO for Interpath 
Communications, Inc.; CEO of Expanets, Inc. and President and 
COO for Nextel Communications, Inc. In the past, he has served  
on the board of directors of various North American domestic  
and international companies – both public and private. 

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley, aged 70, was appointed as an 
Independent Non-executive Director in May 2001. He was formerly 
an Executive Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Ltd. Mr Langley maintains close ties with the business 
community in Hong Kong. He is currently a Non-executive Director  
of Lei Shing Hong Limited which has been delisted from the Stock 
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited on March 17, 2008. Mr Langley 
resigned as an Independent Non-executive Director of Winsor 
Properties Holdings Limited (now renamed as Vanke Property 
(Overseas) Limited) with effective from September 1, 2012 and 
retired as an Independent Non-executive Director of Dickson 
Concepts (International) Limited with effective from July 24, 2014, 
both of which companies are listed on the stock exchange of  
Hong Kong.

39

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Board of Directors

Independent Non-executive Directors (continued)

Manfred Kuhlmann

Peter David Sullivan BS

40

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann, aged 70, was appointed as an Independent 
Non-executive Director in 2004. He was General Manager of 
Dresdner Bank AG Hong Kong Branch between 1994 and 1998 and 
General Manager of Dresdner Bank AG Dubai before he retired in 
August 2004. Mr Kuhlmann is a graduate of the Banking Academy, 
Hamburg and has extensive experience in the finance and banking 
industry. Since 2005 he served as “Hamburg Ambassador” in the 
UAE to support the economic ties between Hamburg, Germany  
and the UAE. He retired from that position in May 2013 as he had 
moved his residence to Cyprus. Since July 2009 Mr Kuhlmann was  
a Non-executive Director and member of the Board of Avicenna 
Pharma Development FZLLC in Dubai, he retired from that position 
on December 31, 2010.

Mr Peter David Sullivan, aged 66, was appointed as Independent 
Non-executive Director effective February 1, 2008. He was an 
Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of Standard  
Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited. Mr Sullivan held governance 
responsibility for franchises of the Standard Chartered Group in 
Japan, Australia, the Philippines and Bohai Bank in Tianjin, China. 
He also held a number of other major appointments, including as  
the Chairman of the Hong Kong Association of Banks and the  
British Chamber of Commerce.

Mr Sullivan has been appointed as a Non-executive Director to  
the boards of Standard Bank Group and The Standard Bank of  
South Africa Limited with effect from January 15, 2013. He is  
the Chairman and Non-executive Director of Healthcare Locums plc, 
and a Non-executive Director of Winton Capital plc, AXA ASIA and  
AXA China Region Insurance Company Limited. Mr Sullivan was  
an Independent Non-executive Director of Standard Bank plc  
London and SmarTone Telecommunications Holdings Limited,  
a Non-executive Director of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
that is listed on the Australian and New Zealand stock exchanges.

Mr Sullivan holds a Bachelor of Science (Physical Education) Degree 
from the University of New South Wales (Wollongong).

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung, aged 73, was appointed as a Director 
in 1991 and was re-designated as an Independent Non-executive 
Director on March 30, 2012. He is a Non-executive Director of Gold 
Peak Industries (Holdings) Limited, listed on The Stock Exchange of 
Hong Kong Limited.

Mr Cheung is a graduate in law from University College London and 
has been a practising solicitor since 1970. He is qualified to practice 
law in Hong Kong and England and Wales and he is now a Consultant 
of Vincent T.K. Cheung, Yap & Co. He is also a Fellow of University 
College London and a Commandeur de l’Ordre du Mérite Agricole 
from France.

41

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Liquidity and Financial Resources

Shareholders’ Funds
Total shareholders’ funds amounted to US$2.0 billion as 
compared to US$1.7 billion in 2013. Book value per share was 
at US$1.07 as compared to US$0.95 last year, an increase of 
12.6%.

Financial Position
The Group continued to maintain a strong financial position. As 
at December 31, 2014, the Group’s cash and cash equivalents 
amounted to US$690 million (2013: US$698 million), of which 
41.0%, 31.0%, 11.6% and 16.4% were denominated in US$, 
RMB, EUR and other currencies respectively.

The Group’s net gearing, expressed as a percentage of total 
net borrowing (excluding bank advance from factored trade 
receivables which are without recourse in nature) to equity 
attributable to Owners of the Company, improved to 10.0% as 
compared to 10.6% last year. The gearing improvement is the 
result of very disciplined and focused management over working 
capital and free cash flow from operations applied to debt 
repayment. The Group remains confident that gearing will remain 
low going forward.

Bank Borrowings
Long term borrowings accounted for 36.3% of total debts (2013: 
42.4%).

The Group’s major borrowings continued to be in US Dollars 
and in HK Dollars. Borrowings are predominantly LIBOR or 
Hong Kong best lending rates based. There is a natural hedge 
mechanism in place as the Group’s major revenues are in US 
Dollars and currency exposure therefore is low. Currency, interest 
rate exposures, and cash management functions are all being 
closely monitored and managed by the Group’s treasury team.

Financial Review
Financial Results

Result Analysis
The Group’s turnover for the year amounted to US$4.8 billion, an 
increase of 10.5% as compared to US$4.3 billion in 2013. Profit 
attributable to Owners of the Company amounted to US$300 
million as compared to US$250 million in 2013, an increase 
of 20.0%. Basic earnings per share for the year improved to 
US16.41 cents as compared to US13.68 cents in 2013.

EBITDA amounted to US$500 million, an increase of 12.9% as 
compared to US$443 million in 2013.

EBIT amounted to US$351 million, an increase of 15.4% as 
compared to US$304 million in 2013.

Gross Margin
Gross margin improved to 35.2% as compared to 34.2% last 
year. The margin improvement was the result of new product 
introduction, category expansion, improvements in operational 
efficiency and supply chain productivity.

Operating Expenses
Total operating expenses for the year amounted to US$1,326 
million as compared to US$1,175 million in 2013, representing 
27.9% of turnover (2013: 27.3%). The increase was mainly 
due to the strategic spent on advertising and promotion on new 
products, particularly for the Floor Care division.

Investments in product design and development amounted to 
US$118 million, representing 2.5% of turnover (2013: 2.5%) 
reflecting our continuous strive for innovation. We will continue 
to invest to create breakthrough technology and deliver broad 
base end-user products and categories as these are most critical 
not only to maintain sales growth momentum but also margin 
expansions.

Net interest expenses for the year was maintained at US$25 
million as compared to last year. Interest coverage, expressed as 
a multiple of EBITDA to total interest was 13.0 times (2013: 12.4 
times).

The effective tax rate, being tax charged for the year to before tax 
profits was at 7.9% (2013: 10.5%). The Group will continue to 
leverage its global operations to sustain the overall tax efficiencies.

42

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Management’s Discussion and AnalysisWorking Capital
Total inventory was at US$1,056 million as compared to US$884 
million in 2013. Days inventory increased by 6 days from 75 days 
to 81 days. The increase was mainly due to the strategic decision 
to carry a higher level of inventory to support our service level, 
considering our high growth momentum. The Group will continue 
to focus in managing the inventory level and improve inventory 
turns.

Trade receivable turnover days were at 59 days as compared 
to 64 days last year. Excluding the gross up of the receivables 
factored which is without recourse in nature, receivable turnover 
days were at 54 days as compared to 57 days last year. The 
Group is comfortable with the quality of the receivables and will 
continue to exercise due care in managing the credit exposure.

Trade payable days were 87 days as compared to 88 days in 
2013.

Working capital as a percentage of sales was at 14.6% as 
compared to 13.9% in 2013.

Capital Expenditure
Total capital expenditures for the year amounted to US$154 
million (2013: US$105 million).

Capital Commitments and Contingent Liabilities
As at December 31, 2014, total capital commitments amounted 
to US$12 million (2013: US$19 million) and there were no 
material contingent liabilities or off balance sheet obligations.

Charge
None of the Group’s assets are charged or subject to 
encumbrance.

Major Customers and Suppliers
For the year ended December 31, 2014

(i) 

(ii) 

the Group’s largest customer and five largest customers 
accounted for approximately 37.4% and 49.5% respectively 
of the Group’s total turnover; and

the Group’s largest supplier and five largest suppliers 
accounted for approximately 5.3% and 18.5% respectively 
of the Group’s total purchases (not including purchases of 
items which are of a capital nature).

As far as the Directors are aware, none of the Directors, their 
associates or any shareholders who owned more than 5% of TTI’s 
share capital had any interest in the five largest customers or 
suppliers of the Group.

Human Resources
The Group employed a total of 20,081 employees as at December 
31, 2014 (2013: 18,746) in Hong Kong and overseas. Increase 
in the number of employees mainly due to the acquisitions 
completed during the past twelve months. Excluding the effect 
from acquisition, employees as at December 31, 2014 total 
to 19,100, very comparable to last year, with an increase in 
turnover. Total staff cost for the year under review amounted to 
US$678 million (2013: US$601 million).

The Group regards human capital as vital for the Group’s 
continuous growth and profitability and remains committed to 
improving the quality, competence and skills of all employees. 
It provides job-related training and leadership development 
programs throughout the organisation. The Group continues to 
offer competitive remuneration packages, discretionary share 
options and bonuses to eligible staff, based on the performance 
of the Group and the individual employee.

Corporate Strategy and Business Model
The Group is a world-class leader in design, manufacturing and 
marketing of power tools, outdoor power equipment and floor 
care for consumers, professional and industrial users in the home 
improvement, infrastructure and construction industries. We 
are committed to implementing our long term strategic plan that 
focuses on “Powerful brands, Innovative Products, Operational 
Excellence and Exceptional People”.

We continue to strengthen our portfolio of powerful brands with a 
focused marketing approach. Brands extension into new product 
categories and under-represented markets enable us to generate 
outstanding growth. Geographic expansion will be a highlight of 
TTI’s future, our long term strategy is to aggressively build our 
business outside the U.S. and we have spent relentless efforts to 
expand or establish presence in high potential markets around 
the world.

Introducing innovative new products is the centerpiece of our 
long term strategy. We continue to invest in building a high-speed 
product development process, enabling us to respond faster 
to customer requests and emerging opportunities, giving us a 
vigorous competitive advantage.

Our strategy in operational excellence will continue, we will drive 
further gains in efficiency across our manufacturing operations, 
supporting further margin improvement.

We continue to deploy our Leadership Development Program 
(LDP) to develop our pool of talent for the future. The LDP 
initiative is successfully feeding talent into key positions 
throughout the company.

43

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Sales by 
Business

74.7%
Power Equipment,  
Accessories and Hand Tools

25.3%
Floor Care and Appliances

Review of Operations
TTI delivered another year of excellent record performance in 
2014 with growth in all business segments and geographic 
regions. North America grew 8.8%, Europe 11.3% and rest of 
world 26.4%.

Across our product lines and brands, we drove gains with the 
introduction of innovative new technologies including expansion 
of our market-disrupting Lithium cordless platforms. Our 
MILWAUKEE business reported exceptional performance in all 
geographies, and RYOBI brand furthered its penetration across 
core consumer power tool and outdoor segments. We continued 
to transform Floor Care making operational improvements and 
launching new products to enhance profitability.

Our gross margin expanded driven by new products coupled 
with improvements in operational efficiency and supply chain 
productivity. We delivered profitability gains across our business 
units and brands. Working capital remained solid with the 
business generating positive free cash flow.

Power Equipment
Power Equipment is our largest business and consists of power 
tools, hand tools, outdoor products, and accessories. For the 
year, sales in Power Equipment rose by 13.0% to US$3.6 billion 
with growth in all geographic markets and especially strong 
performance in our industrial division. The business accounted 
for 74.7% of Group turnover, against 73.1% in 2013. Based on 
new product introductions and enhancements in productivity, 
earnings grew 16.7% to US$305 million.

44

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Management’s Discussion and AnalysisIndustrial
Our industrial business, MILWAUKEE, outpaced the market with 
22.2% growth across all geographic regions. A steady flow of 
innovative new products to our power tool, accessory, and hand 
tool lines remains central to our strong performance. Successful 
end-user and distribution channel initiatives as well as adjacent 
category expansion also played key roles in our gains.

Leveraging the tremendous upside potential of our successful 
M12 and M18 ranges, we continued investment in the industry’s 
most comprehensive line of cordless industrial power tools 
with the launch of the ultra-fast cutting M12 FUEL HACKZALL 
reciprocal saw. We introduced the M18 FUEL HOLE HAWG 
Right Angle Drill and M18 FUEL Deep Cut Band Saw developed 
to provide game-changing productivity to the industrial sector. 
MILWAUKEE FUEL cordless products, applying innovation in 
both Lithium and brushless motors technology, are the first 
cordless power tools in their class with true corded power tool 
performance. Our new M18 FUEL circular saw is the market’s 
most advanced cordless circular saw.

We grew our position in the power tool accessory market. New 
introductions including the DIAMOND PLUS, HOLE DOZER and 
SHOCKWAVE IMPACT DUTY hole saws effectively tapped growing 
market trends and user demands for applications focused 
solutions. These innovations and the strength of our range makes 
MILWAUKEE the first choice of demanding users. The acquisition 
of the world class KOTTMANN chisel bit business also enhanced 
our full service offering.

Our rapid expansion in hand tools also continued with new 
product additions including to the popular INKZALL Jobsite 
Markers line. The recently acquired EMPIRE business, a leading 
U.S. manufacturer of levels, squares, layout tools and safety and 
utility tapes, grew in momentum with a focus on new products.

Consumer and Professional
In 2014, our leading North American consumer power tool brand, 
RYOBI, generated gains through innovative product introductions 
and enhanced marketing. The RYOBI ONE+ platform continues 
to grow by more than one million new customers annually 

and penetrate further North American, Europe, Australia and 
New Zealand households. We continued to add products to 
our revolutionary 18V ONE+ SYSTEM of cordless tools for the 
worksite, like the high-performance compact rotary hammer 
drill, AC/DC hybrid 20w LED worklight and AC/DC hybrid fan. 
Our AIRSTRIKE technology, powered by the ONE+ system, 
deepened its footprint in the growing pneumatics segment with 
the introduction of the 16 gauge finish nailer and 18 gauge 
narrow crown stapler. RYOBI PHONE WORKS represented the 
first-to-market line of electronic pro-quality measuring tools that 
work in conjunction with smartphone technology to manage home 
improvement projects.

In Europe, RYOBI brand continued to expand its reach through 
the launch of innovative new ONE+ lithium products, as well as 
targeted media and digital marketing campaigns. RYOBI brand 
delivered double digit growth in Australia and New Zealand 
with additions to the ONE+ platform as well as the launch of an 
exciting pneumatic tool range under AIRWAVE and the cordless 
AIRSTRIKE nailer range. The AEG brand grew in Europe and 
rest of world geographies with a series of successful new Lithium 
products and focused marketing to drive brand awareness and 
sales.

Outdoor Products
Outdoor Products continued its steady growth in 2014 with our 
cordless Lithium products making impressive inroads in North 
America, Europe, and Australia. Sales were down slightly in North 
America due to unfavorable weather conditions, but this was 
balanced by improvements in operational efficiency and supply 
chain.

Our first-in-class RYOBI 18V ONE+ SYSTEM AC/DC hybrid blower 
has been highly successful. The “gas-like power” of the 40V 
RYOBI Lithium cordless platform continues to be well received 
and the range expanded into categories such as chainsaws, 
trimmers, blowers, and mowers. The recently launched RYOBI 
Inverter Generator is exceeding sales expectations. A series of 
promotional campaigns as well as growth in relationships with key 
retail partners also drove our positive momentum.

45

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Sales by 
Business

25.3%
Floor Care and Appliances 

74.7%
Power Equipment,  
Accessories and Hand Tools

Review of Operations (contiuned)
Floor Care and Appliances
Floor Care and Appliances achieved another solid year on sales 
of US$1.2 billion accounting for 25.3% of group turnover. We 
realised significant profit improvements through realignment of 
operations and a focus on leveraging scale and optimising supply 
chain.

Applying TTI’s innovative Lithium technology, we introduced 
the revolutionary HOOVER AIR cordless upright vacuum which 
delivers 50 minutes of non-stop run-time and the FLOORMATE 
Cordless Hard Floor Cleaner. We expanded the popular DIRT 
DEVIL LIFT & GO platform with a lightweight full size detachable 
upright, and the spray & mop series continued to perform well. 
The integration of ORECK brand was completed and a refreshed 
product range is being introduced. Our VAX business in Europe 
had a highly successful year with introduction of new AIR cordless 
upright products.

46

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Management’s Discussion and AnalysisPurchase, Sale or Redemption of Shares
Other than for satisfying the awarded shares granted under the 
Company’s share award scheme, (details of which will be set out 
in the Corporate Governance Report), a total of 865,000 ordinary 
shares of the Company were bought back by the Company during 
the year at prices ranging from HK$20.80 to HK$24.15 per share.  
The aggregate amount paid by the Company for such buy-backs 
amounting to US$2,486,000 was charged to the retained 
earnings.

The shares bought back were cancelled and accordingly the 
issued share capital of the Company was reduced.

The buy-back of the Company’s shares during the year were 
effected by the Directors pursuant to the mandate received from 
shareholders at the previous annual general meeting, with a view 
to benefiting shareholders as a whole by enhancing the net asset 
value per share and earnings per share of the Company.

Except as disclosed above, neither the Company nor any of its 
subsidiaries purchased, redeemed or sold any of the Company’s 
listed securities during the year.

Review of Financial Information
The Audit Committee has reviewed with senior management of 
the Group and Messrs Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu the accounting 
principles and practices adopted by the Group and has discussed 
internal controls and financial reporting matters, including the 
review of Group’s consolidated financial statements for the 
year ended December 31, 2014. The Board acknowledges its 
responsibility for the preparation of the accounts of the Group.

Dividend
The Directors have recommended a final dividend of HK19.00 cents 
(approximately US2.45 cents) per share with a total of approximately 
US$44,782,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014 (2013: 
HK13.75 cents (approximately US1.77 cents)) payable to the 
Company’s shareholders whose names appear on the register of 
members of the Company on May 29, 2015. Subject to the approval 
of the shareholders at the forthcoming annual general meeting of 
the Company, the proposed final dividend is expected to be paid 
on or about June 26, 2015. This payment, together with the interim 
dividend of HK12.50 cents (approximately US1.61 cents) per share 
(2013: HK10.00 cents (approximately US1.29 cents)) paid on 
September 26, 2014, makes a total payment of HK31.50 cents  
(approximately US4.05 cents) per share for 2014 (2013: 
HK23.75 cents (approximately US3.06 cents)).

Closure of Register of Members
The register of members of the Company will be closed for the 
following periods:

To ascertain members’ eligibility to attend and vote at the 2015 
Annual General Meeting, the register of members of the Company 
will be closed from May 21, 2015 to May 22, 2015, both days 
inclusive, during which period no transfers of shares will be 
effected. In order to qualify to attend and vote at the 2015 Annual 
General Meeting, all transfers accompanied by the relevant share 
certificates must be lodged with the Company’s share registrars, 
Tricor Secretaries Limited, at Level 22, Hopewell Centre,  
183 Queen’s Road East, Hong Kong for registration not later than 
4:00 p.m. on May 20, 2015.

To ascertain members’ entitlement to the final dividend, the 
register of members of the Company will be closed on May 29, 
2015 when no transfers of shares will be effected. In order to 
qualify for the final dividend, all transfers accompanied by the 
relevant share certificates must be lodged with the Company’s 
share registrars, Tricor Secretaries Limited, at Level 22, Hopewell 
Centre, 183 Queen’s Road East, Hong Kong for registration not 
later than 4:00 p.m. on May 28, 2015.

47

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014The Company is committed to maintain a high standard of 
corporate governance to enhance shareholders’ interests and 
promote sustainable development. The Company emphasises 
a quality board of directors (the “Board”) for leadership and 
effective internal controls, transparency and accountability to 
all shareholders. The Board review the codes and practices 
of corporate governance and the disclosure of this Corporate 
Governance Report from time to time to improve the Company’s 
corporate governance practices with regards to the latest 
developments on all applicable laws, rules and regulations.

Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code
The Company has complied with all the code provisions of the 
Corporate Governance Code set out in Appendix 14 of the Rules 
Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong 
Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”) (the “Corporate Governance 
Code”) throughout the year ended December 31, 2014, save 
that:

1. 

none of the Directors are appointed for a specific term since 
they are subject to retirement by rotation and re-election in 
accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company.  
Under Article 103 of the Articles of Association of the Company, 
one-third of the Board must retire by rotation at each 
general meeting of the Company and if eligible, offer 
themselves for re-election.

2.  Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher (an Independent Non-executive 

Director) and Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung (an Independent 
Non-executive Director) were unable to attend the annual 
general meeting of the Company held on May 23, 2014 due 
to prior engagements.

3. 

The Board was previously provided with quarterly updates 
instead of monthly updates. In order to give the Board a 
more balanced and understandable assessment of the 
performance, position and prospects of the Company, 
monthly updates have been provided to the Directors 
starting from August 2014.

The Company also voluntarily complied with a number of 
recommended best practices set out in the Corporate Governance 
Code, which is aimed for further enhancement of the Company’s 
corporate governance standard and promote the best interests of 
the Company and shareholders as a whole.

Corporate Governance Policy
The Board develops, reviews and monitors the corporate 
governance policies and practices to ensure compliance with 
the Company’s Articles of Association and the laws, rules 
and regulatory requirements governing the Group. The Board 
performed the corporate governance function by, but not limited 
to, the following:

• 

• 

• 

review and monitor the compliance of the Model Code for 
Securities Transactions by Directors, the Code for Securities 
Transactions by Relevant Employees and other codes of 
conduct of the Company.

review the disclosure set out in this Corporate Governance 
Report and the compliance of the Corporate Governance 
Code.

review and monitor the training and continuous professional 
development of Directors and senior management.

Board of Directors
Roles and Responsibilities
The Board is responsible for leading, directing and supervising the 
Group affairs collectively with an effective corporate governance 
framework for the long term success of the Company. Principal 
responsibilities of the Board including, but are not limited to, the 
following:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

review and develop the Company’s policies and practices 
on corporate governance.

control and oversee the Company’s operations and financial 
performance through the determination of the annual 
budget and continuous review of performance results.

consider matters covering appointment of Directors, senior 
management and external auditors, major acquisitions and 
disposals and other significant operational matters.

review and formulate overall mid-term and long-term 
strategy and direction of the Company.

monitor risks and changes in local and international 
business communities in order to enhance shareholders’ 
value.

In order to govern the delegation of daily management 
responsibilities to the senior management of the Group, written 
procedures have been formally adopted and reviewed regularly 
to monitor the delegation and the reservation to the Board of 
specifically identified matters.

48

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Corporate Governance ReportBoard Composition
As at the date of this report, the Board consists of five Group Executive Directors, one Non-executive Director and five Independent
Non-executive Directors. An analysis of the current composition of the Board of the Company is set out below:

Group Executive Directors
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill (Chairman)
Mr Joseph Galli Jr (Chief Executive Officer)
Mr Kin Wah Chan (Operations Director)
Mr Chi Chung Chan (Group Chief Financial Officer)
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill (President of Strategic Planning)

Non-executive Director
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Independent Non-executive Directors
Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

The biographical details and relevant relationships of the members of the Board are set out on pages 36 to 41 of this annual report. A 
list of Directors and their roles and functions are published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com) and the Stock Exchange’s 
website (www.hkexnews.hk).

49

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company 
have been segregated and clearly distinguished in order to 
promote balance of power and authority.

The roles of Chairman comprise, but are not limited to, the 
following:

Appropriate Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance cover 
has been arranged to indemnify the Directors and Officers of 
the Group for liabilities arising out of corporate activities. The 
coverage and the sum insured under the policy are reviewed 
annually.

Directors are subject to retirement by rotation at least once 
every three years in accordance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association and the Listing Rules. Any Directors appointed to fill 
a casual vacancy would be subject to election by shareholders 
at the next annual general meeting after their appointment. As 
at the date of this report, Independent Non-executive Directors 
and Non-executive Director form majority of the Board, and the 
Independent Non-executive Directors represent over one-third of 
the Board. Furthermore, each of the Independent Non-executive 
Directors possesses professional qualifications or accounting or 
related financial management expertise as required under
Rule 3.10 of the Listing Rules. All the Independent Non-executive 
Directors meet the guidelines for assessing independence 
set out in Rule 3.13 of the Listing Rules. The Company has 
received annual confirmation of independence from each of the 
Independent Non-executive Directors and still considers them to 
be independent.

Directors’ Continuous Professional Development
All Directors are provided with regular training, updates and 
written materials on relevant laws, rules and regulations to ensure 
that Directors are aware of the latest changes in the commercial 
and regulatory environment in which the Company conducts its 
business. The Directors are encouraged to participate in various 
professional development programmes especially in relation to 
latest updates on relevant rules, regulations and compliance 
requirements to develop and refresh their knowledge and skills 
in order to ensure that the Directors’ contribution to the Board 
remains informed and relevant.

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

encourage all Directors to make full and active contributions 
to the Board’s affairs and take the lead to ensure it acts in 
the best interests of the Company.

provide leadership for the Board to ensure it performs 
effectively and discharges its responsibilities.

ensure all Directors receive accurate, timely and reliable 
information and are properly briefed on issues arising at 
Board meetings.

monitor corporate governance practices and procedures 
and make sure good practices and procedures are 
established.

ensure appropriate steps are taken to provide effective 
communication with shareholders and that views of 
shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole.

The roles of Chief Executive Officer comprise, but are not limited 
to, the following:

• 

• 

facilitate the integrating acquisitions in North America and 
Europe and enhance the global sales potential of our strong 
brand portfolio.

provide leadership for the global management team in the 
Group’s daily operations.

Every Director is aware that he must be able to contribute 
sufficient time and attention to the affairs of the Company before 
accepting appointment as a director. Orientation which details the 
duties and responsibilities of directors under the Listing Rules, 
the Company’s Articles of Association, related ordinances and 
relevant regulatory requirements of Hong Kong is provided for 
every newly appointed director. Presentations by senior executives 
of the Company and external professionals are also provided to 
ensure a proper understanding of the Company’s business and 
operations.

50

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Corporate Governance ReportAll Directors participated in continuous professional development as set out in code provision A.6.5 of the Corporate Governance Code. 
According to the records of training provided by each Director to the Company, training received by all Directors in 2014 is summarised 
in the following table:

Type of Continuous Professional Development Programme

Updates on
business 
operations,
laws, rules 
and regulations
or corporate
governance matters

Updates on
directors’ roles,
functions and duties

Updates on
accounting,
financial or other
professional skills

√
√
√
√
√

√

√
√
√
√
√

√
√
√
√
√

√

√
√
√
√
√

√
√

√

√
√

√

Group Executive Directors
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill
Mr Joseph Galli Jr
Mr Kin Wah Chan
Mr Chi Chung Chan
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Non-executive Director
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Independent Non-executive Directors
Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Compliance with the Codes for Securities 
Transactions
The Board has adopted the provisions of the Model Code for 
Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers set out in 
Appendix 10 of the Listing Rules (the “Model Code”). Specific 
enquiries have been made with all Directors who have confimed 
that they have fully complied with the required standards as set 
out in the Model Code during the year ended December 31, 
2014.

Another code of conduct on terms no less onerous than the 
Model Code that applies to securities transactions of all relevant 
employees who may be in possession of unpublished price 
sensitive information in relation to the Company (the “Code 
for Securities Transactions by Relevant Employees”) has also 
been adopted. No incident of non-compliance was noted by the 
Company during the year.

Both the Model Code and the Code for Securities Transactions 
by Relevant Employees have been published on the Company’s 
website (www.ttigroup.com).

51

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Board Meetings
There are at least four scheduled Board meetings in a year and 
will meet more frequently as and when required to facilitate the 
effectiveness of the Board. All Directors are provided with timely, 
complete and reliable information on the affairs of the Group, 
and have access to all related materials in relation to the Board’s 
issues to enable informed decisions with sufficient details. All 
Directors receive support from and access to the Company 
Secretary of the Company (the “Company Secretary”) to ensure 
Board procedures and all applicable law, rules and regulations 
are followed. Each Director can access to senior management 
of the Group on their requests and to independent professional 
advice on performing their duties at the Company’s expenses. 
To ensure a proper understanding of the business of the Group 
and directors’ responsibilities under statute and at common 
law, all Directors are provided with briefings and professional 
development training as necessary.

Five Board meetings were held in 2014. Attendance records of 
each Director are set out in the section “Board, Board Committee 
and General Meetings in 2014” at the end of this report. The 
meeting agenda is set by the Chairman in consultation with 
members of the Board to include any other matters raised by 
Directors in advance. Minutes of the Board and Board Committee 
meetings with sufficient details of matters and concerns 
discussed are kept in safe custody by the Company Secretary, are 
sent to the Directors for comment and records and are open for 
inspection by the Directors. To facilitate maximum attendance of 
Directors, Board meeting, Board Committee meeting and Annual 
General Meeting dates for 2015 have been agreed at the Board 
meeting held in August 2014.

Board Committees
The Board has set up three Board Committees, namely the Audit 
Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration 
Committee, to delegate various responsibilities. Each of these 
Board Committees has specific written terms of reference 
which deal clearly with their authority and duties and have been 
published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com) and the 
Stock Exchange’s website (www.hkexnews.hk).

All Board Committees are formed by majority of Independent 
Non-executive Directors with regular attendance and active 
participation to ensure independent views and opinions 
contributed and expressed at the Board Committee meetings. 

The Board monitors and oversees the delegated authority and 
responsibilities through regular reporting by the Board Committees 
in relation to their activities involved and recommendations and 
decisions made. Attendance records of each Board Committee 
are set out in the section “Board, Board Committee and General 
Meetings in 2014”.

Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is formed by three Independent
Non-executive Directors and chaired by Mr Peter David Sullivan 
with other members being Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher and 
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann. Each member of the Audit Committee 
has professional qualifications or accounting or related financial 
management expertise as required under Rule 3.10 of
the Listing Rules.

The Audit Committee aims to ensure the compliance with the 
Group’s obligations under the Listing Rules and other applicable 
laws and regulations and the effectiveness of internal control 
system and to oversee the integrity of the financial statements of 
the Company. The Audit Committee is also directly responsible on 
behalf of the Board for the selection, oversight and remuneration 
of the Company’s external auditors; the assessment of the 
independence and qualifications of the external auditors; the 
oversight of the performance of the Company’s external auditors 
and the maintenance of an appropriate relationship with the 
external auditors.

The Audit Committee held four meetings in 2014 and performed 
duties summarised below:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

perform regular update and review on internal audit of
the Group.

review the Group’s risk management and internal controls.

review the interim and annual financial statements of
the Group before submission to the Board.

review the Group’s accounting principles and practices, 
significant financial matters and financial reporting matters.

recommend the re-appointment of the external auditors 
and review the audit and non-audit services provided by the 
external auditors.

52

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Corporate Governance Report 
 
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr Horst Julius Pudwill 
(Chairman of the Board) with other members being Mr Vincent 
Ting Kau Cheung, Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE and
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann. All members except Mr Horst Julius 
Pudwill are Independent Non-executive Directors.

Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is formed by five Independent 
Non-executive Directors and is chaired by Mr Vincent Ting Kau 
Cheung with the other members being Mr Christopher Patrick 
Langley OBE, Mr Manfred Kuhlmann, Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher 
and Mr Peter David Sullivan.

The Nomination Committee aims to ensure a fair and 
transparent process of Board appointments, and in particular 
to assist the Board to identify suitably qualified candidates and 
make recommendations for consideration of the Board and 
shareholders. The Nomination Committee would consider, but not 
limited to, professional knowledge, industry experience, personal 
skills, ethics and integrity as well as the ability to contribute 
sufficient time and attention to the Board when considering 
suitable candidates of directors.

The Nomination Committee held two meetings in 2014. The work 
performed by the Nomination Committee in 2014, with sufficient 
resources provided by the Company and/or independent 
professional advice if necessary, included:

• 

• 

• 

• 

review of the structure, size and composition of the Board 
on a regular basis.

assess the independence of Independent Non-executive 
Directors.

make recommendations to the Board on relevant matters 
relating to the retirement and re-election of the Directors at 
the 2014 Annual General Meeting.

review the Board Diversity Policy and the Nomination 
Policy.

The Board has adopted the Board Diversity Policy with 
recommendation from the Nomination Committee in
August 2013, which is published on the Company’s website
(www.ttigroup.com). Widening diversity at the Board level 
is essential for sustainable development of the Group. The 
Nomination Committee would consider various perspectives, 
including, but not limited to, age, gender, cultural and educational 
background, professional experience and length of service while 
reviewing the composition of the Board. An analysis of the current 
Board composition based on these objective criteria is set out on 
page 49 of this report.

The Remuneration Committee aims to develop and administer 
a fair and transparent procedure for setting policy on the overall 
human resources strategy of the Group and the remuneration of 
Directors and senior management of the Group, and determine 
their remuneration packages, on the basis of their competence, 
merit and qualifications, and having regard to the Company’s 
individual performance, operating results, and comparable market 
statistics. The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations 
to the Board on the remuneration packages of Executive Directors 
and senior management, including, without limitation, base 
salaries, benefits in kind, compensation payments and bonuses, 
and consults the Chairman and/or Chief Executive Officer for the 
proposals of other Executive Directors’ remuneration packages. 
The Remuneration Committee also makes recommendations 
to the Board on the remuneration of Non-executive Director 
and Independent Non-executive Directors. The Remuneration 
Committee reports directly to the Board on its decisions or 
recommendations and with access to sufficient resources and 
professional advices if necessary.

The Remuneration Committee held two meetings in 2014 and 
performed, among other things, the following:

• 

• 

assess the Executive Directors’ performance and 
remuneration packages.

review and make recommendations on the existing 
Remuneration Policy for Directors and senior management.

On January 9, 2008 (the “Adoption Date”), the Board adopted 
the Share Award Scheme (the “Scheme”), pursuant to which any 
employee or Director (including, without limitation, any Executive, 
Non-executive or Independent Non-executive Director) of any 
member of the Group (the “Eligible Person”) will be entitled to 
participate. Unless terminated earlier by the Board in accordance 
with the rules relating to the Scheme, the Scheme is valid and 
effective for a term of 10 years commencing on the Adoption 
Date provided that no contribution to the trust will be made by 
the Company on or after the 10th anniversary date of the Adoption 
Date. Details of the Scheme were announced by the Company on 
the Adoption Date.

53

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014The Board may from time to time at their absolute discretion select any Eligible Person for participation in the Scheme as a selected 
grantee (the “Selected Grantee”) and determine the number of shares to be awarded or make reference to a nominal amount. Relevant 
number of shares awarded will be purchased by the trustee of the Scheme from the market or subscribe for new shares at the cost of 
the Company and be held in trust until they are vested. When the Selected Grantee has satisfied all vesting conditions specified by the 
Board, the trustee of the Scheme will transfer the relevant vested shares together with the income derived therefrom (net of accrued 
interest) to the Selected Grantee.

The maximum number of shares which can be awarded under the Scheme is 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the 
Adoption Date and the maximum number of shares which can be awarded to a Selected Grantee at any one time shall not in aggregate 
exceed 1% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the Adoption Date. The total issued share capital of the Company as at the 
Adoption Date is 1,501,252,152 shares.

During the year ended December 31, 2014, the Board awarded a total of 824,000 shares under the Scheme, representing 0.05% of 
the issued share capital of the Company as at the Adoption Date, to 2 Directors of the Company. The total payout, including related 
expenses, amounted to US$2,441,000.

As at December 31, 2014, details of the awarded shares under the Scheme were as follows:-

Number of shares

As at
January 1,
2014

—
—
—

Awarded
during
the year

350,000
174,000
300,000

Vested
during
the year

—
—
—

Lapsed
during
the year

As at
December 31,
2014

Closing 
price at 
the Date 
of Award

Vesting Period

—
—
—

350,000
174,000
300,000

-    18.9.2017
18.9.2015 
-    26.9.2017
26.9.2015 
17.12.2015  -   17.12.2017

HK$22.50
HK$22.10
HK$25.85

Name of Directors

Date of Award

Horst Julius Pudwill
Horst Julius Pudwill
Joseph Galli Jr

18.9.2014
26.9.2014
17.12.2014

Notes:

(1) 

All the awarded shares are purchased from the market.

(2) 

At the end of the year, the average fair value per share is HK$23.02. The average fair value of the awarded shares is based on the average purchase cost.

Company Secretary
The Company Secretary is responsible for facilitating information 
flows and communications among Directors as well as with 
Shareholders and management of the Company. All Directors 
have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. 
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring that 
Board procedures are followed. The Company Secretary is 
an employee of the Company and is appointed by the Board. 
During 2014, the Company Secretary undertook over 15 hours of 
professional training to update her skills and knowledge.

Accountability and Audit
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for overseeing the 
preparation of the accounts of the Group which give a true and 
fair view of the Group’s state of affairs, results and cash flows for 
the year.

The Board will present a balanced, clear and understandable 
assessment of annual and interim reports, other price-sensitive 
announcements and other financial disclosures required 
under the Listing Rules, and reports to the regulators as well 
as information required to be disclosed pursuant to statutory 
requirements.

54

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Internal Controls
The Board is responsible for approving and reviewing key internal 
control policies which include treasury management policy, 
delegated authorities, policy on market disclosure, investor and 
media relations and non-audit services. To maintain a sound and 
effective internal control system, the Board conducts an annual 
review of the effectiveness of the internal control system of the 
Company, which is designed to manage and minimise risks of 
failure in operational systems, and to provide reasonable but not 
absolute assurance that material misstatement or loss can be 
avoided.

The Board, and in particular the Audit Committee, conducts a 
continuous review of the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
control system that has been put in place. The reviews covering 
financial, operational, compliance controls and risk management 
performed in 2014 included:

• 

• 

• 

• 

the delegated authorities and organization structure as well 
as the strategic and annual operating plan.

the scope and quality of management’s ongoing monitoring 
of risks and system of internal control and the effectiveness 
of the Company’s procedures relating to statutory and 
regulatory compliance.

the risk management process including formal risk 
assessment at the enterprise level upon discussions with 
senior management responsible for day-to-day management 
of significant risks.

the performance and adequacy of accounting and financial 
reporting functions.

External Auditors
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, the external auditors of the Group, 
provided the following audit and non-audit services to the Group 
in 2014:

Nature of Services

External Audit Services
Taxation Services
Other Services

Amount 
(US$ million)

2.4
0.1
0.0

The other services provided by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu 
comprised professional services conducted under the terms of 
specified engagements.

The nature and ratio of annual fees to external auditors for audit 
services and non-audit services are subject to scrutiny by the 
Audit Committee to ensure the independence of the external 
auditors. All non-audit services from external auditors are 
regulated by a Policy on Non-Audit Services published on the 
Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com).

The Audit Committee and the external auditors of the Group 
meet twice a year without the presence of the management of 
the Group to enhance independent reporting by external auditors 
of the Group. In order to maintain effective communication with 
shareholders, the external auditors attended the 2014 Annual 
General Meeting to answer questions about the accounting 
policies, the auditor independence, the conduct of the audit and 
the preparation and content of the auditors’ report.

Investor Relations and Shareholder 
Communications
The Company aims to maintain effective communication and
on-going dialogue with its shareholders and investors particularly 
through the following major means:

Shareholders’ Communication Policy
The Shareholders’ Communication Policy, which primarily covered 
the current practices for communicating with the shareholders 
and published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com), 
has been adopted by the Board on March 22, 2012. All the 
Company’s circulars, announcements, notices and results of 
general meetings, annual and interim reports, and webcasts of 
results presentations conducted at press conferences, which 
published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com), provide 
timely, efficient and accurate information to the shareholders 
and investors. Essential information is communicated to the 
shareholders mainly through the Company’s financial reports, 
general meetings and the information published on the 
Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com) and the Stock Exchange’s 
website (www.hkexnews.hk). In addition, the Company holds 
regular meetings with institutional shareholders and analysts and 
encourages shareholders to attend annual general meetings to 
communicate with Directors and management of the Company 
directly.

A Policy on Market Disclosure, Investor and Media Relations, 
published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com), 
ensures that the Company complies with its disclosure obligations 
under the Listing Rules and other applicable laws and regulations, 
and that all shareholders and potential investors have an equal 
opportunity to receive and obtain externally available information 
issued by the Company.

55

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
Shareholders’ Rights

Convening of extraordinary general meeting on requisition by 
shareholders
Pursuant to Article 66 of the Articles of Association of the 
Company and Sections 566-568 of the Companies Ordinance 
(Chapter 622 of the laws of Hong Kong), shareholders holding 
at least 5% of the total voting rights of all the shareholders 
having a right to vote at general meetings of the Company (the 
“Requisitionists”), may request the Directors to convene an 
extraordinary general meeting (“EGM”). The written requisition 
must state the general nature of the business to be dealt with at 
the EGM and must be signed by the Requisitionists and sent to 
the registered office of the Company which is currently located at 
24/F., CDW Building, 388 Castle Peak Road, Tsuen Wan, New 
Territories, Hong Kong for the attention of the Company Secretary. 
The requisition may consist of several documents in like form and 
may include the text of a resolution that may properly be moved 
and is intended to be moved at the EGM.

If the Directors do not within 21 days after the date on which 
they become subject to the requirement proceed duly to convene 
an EGM for a day not more than 28 days after the date of the 
notice convening the EGM, the Requisisionists, or any of them 
representing more than one half of the total voting rights of all 
of them, may themselves convene an EGM. The EGM must be 
called for a date not more than 3 months after the date on which 
the Directors become subject to the requirement to call an EGM. 
Any reasonable expenses incurred by the Requisitionists by 
reason of the failure of the Directors duly to convene an EGM 
shall be repaid to the Requisitionists by the Company.

Procedure for nominating a person for election as a Director
For the detailed procedure for shareholders to nominate a person 
to stand for election as a director, please refer to the written 
procedure named “Nomination of Directors by Shareholder” 
which was published on the Company’s website
(www.ttigroup.com).

Procedure for directing shareholders’ enquiries to the Board
The Company values feedback from shareholders on its efforts 
to promote transparency and foster investor relationships. 
Shareholders may address their comments, suggestions and/
or enquires to the Board in writing through Investor Relations 
and Communication, contact details are set out in the section 
“Corporate Information” of this annual report.

Procedure for putting forward proposals at general meetings
Pursuant to Section 615 of the Companies Ordinance (Chapter 
622 of the laws of Hong Kong), shareholders may submit a written 
requisition to circulate a resolution at an annual general meeting 
(“AGM”) if they (a) represent at least 2.5% of the total voting 
rights of all shareholders having a right to vote on the resolution 
at the AGM to which the request relates; or (b) are at least 50 
shareholders having a right to vote on the resolution at the AGM 
to which the request relates.

The written requisition must (a) identify the resolution of which 
notice is to be given, (b) be signed by the requisitionists; (c) be 
sent to the registered office of the Company for the attention of 
the Company Secretary; and (d) be received by the Company 
not later than 6 weeks before the AGM to which the request 
relates or if later, the time at which notice is given of that AGM. 
Shareholders are requested to refer to Section 580 and 615 of the 
Companies Ordinance (Chapter 622 of the laws of Hong Kong) for 
further details.

56

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Corporate Governance ReportConstitutional Document
During 2014, no change has been made to the Company’s constitutional document. The constitutional document of the Company was 
published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com) and the Stock Exchange’s website (www.hkexnews.hk).

Board, Board Committee and General Meetings in 2014
A summary of attendance of Board, Board Committee and general meetings in 2014 are detailed in the following table:

Meetings attended/Held in 2014

Board

Audit
Committee

Nomination
Committee

Remuneration
Committee

General
Meeting

Number of meeting(s) held during the year

Group Executive Directors
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill
Mr Joseph Galli Jr
Mr Kin Wah Chan
Mr Chi Chung Chan
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Non-executive Director
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Independent Non-executive Directors
Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Date(s) of meeting(s)

2

2/2

2/2
2/2

2/2

2

2/2
2/2
2/2
2/2
2/2

1

1/1
1/1
1/1
1/1
1/1

1/1

0/1(1)
1/1
1/1
1/1
0/1(2)

March 18,
2014
August 19,
2014

March 18,
2014
August 19,
2014

May 23,
2014

5

5/5
5/5
5/5
5/5
5/5

5/5

4/5
4/5
5/5
5/5
5/5

4

4/4

4/4
4/4

January 21,
2014
March 17,
2014
May 22,
2014
August 19,
2014

January 21,
2014
March 18,
2014
March 19,
2014
May 22,
2014
August 20,
2014

Notes:

(1) 

Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher (an Independent Non-executive Director) was unable to attend the annual general meeting of the Company held on May 23, 2014 (the “2014 
Annual General Meeting”) due to prior engagements.

(2) 

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung (an Independent Non-executive Director) was unable to attend the 2014 Annual General Meeting due to prior engagements.

57

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The directors have pleasure in presenting their annual report and 
the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 
2014.

Principal Activities
The Company acts as an investment holding company.

The principal activities of the principal subsidiaries and associate 
are set out in Notes 52 and 53 to the financial statements, 
respectively.

The buy-back of the Company’s shares during the year were 
effected by the Directors pursuant to the mandate received from 
shareholders at the previous annual general meeting, with a view 
to benefiting shareholders as a whole by enhancing the net asset 
value per share and earnings per share of the Company.

Directors
The directors of the Company during the year and up to the date 
of this report were:

Results and Appropriations
The results of the Group for the year ended December 31, 2014 
are set out in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and 
other comprehensive income on page 68.

An interim dividend of HK12.50 cents (approximately US1.61 
cents) per share amounting to approximately US$29,458,000 
was paid to the shareholders during the year.

The directors now recommend the payment of a final dividend 
of HK19.00 cents (approximately US2.45 cents) per share to 
the shareholders on the register of members on May 29, 2015, 
amounting to approximately US$44,782,000.

Property, Plant and Equipment
The Group continued to expand its business and during the 
year spent approximately US$14,329,000 on moulds and 
tooling and acquired office equipment, furniture and fixtures 
for approximately US$23,635,000 and plant and machinery 
for approximately US$32,450,000. Details of these and other 
movements in the property, plant and equipment of the Group 
and the Company during the year are set out in Note 16 to the 
financial statements.

Share Capital
Details of movements during the year in the share capital of the 
Company are set out in Note 40 to the financial statements.

A total of 865,000 ordinary shares of the Company were bought 
back and cancelled by the Company during the year at prices 
ranging from HK$20.80 to HK$24.15 per share. The aggregate 
amount paid by the Company for such buy-backs amounting to 
US$2,486,000 was charged to the retained profits.

Group Executive Directors:
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill, Chairman
Mr Joseph Galli Jr, Chief Executive Officer
Mr Kin Wah Chan
Mr Chi Chung Chan
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Non-executive Director:
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Independent Non-executive Directors:
Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

In accordance with Article 103 of the Company’s Articles of 
Association, Messrs. Chi Chung Chan, Stephan Horst Pudwill, 
Joel Arthur Schleicher and Vincent Ting Kau Cheung will retire 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. With the exception 
of Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher who will not stand for re-election, all 
other retiring Directors, being eligible, will offer themselves for
re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.

No director proposed for re-election at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting has a service contract which is not determinable 
by the Group within one year without payment of compensation, 
other than statutory compensation.

Terms of Office of Non-executive Directors and 
Independent Non-executive Directors
The term of office for each of the Non-executive Directors and 
Independent Non-executive Directors is the period up to his 
retirement by rotation in accordance with Article 103 of the 
Company’s Articles of Association.

58

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Report of the DirectorsDirectors’ and Chief Executive’s Interests
As at December 31, 2014, the interests and short positions of the directors and the chief executive of the Company in the shares, 
underlying shares and debentures of the Company or any of its associated corporations (within the meaning of Part XV of the Securities 
and Futures Ordinance (“SFO”)) which have been notified to the Company pursuant to Divisions 7 and 8 of Part XV of the SFO (including 
interests and short positions which any such director or chief executive was taken or deemed to have under such provisions of the SFO) 
or as recorded in the register required to be kept under section 352 of the SFO or otherwise notified to the Company and The Stock 
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited pursuant to the Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers as set out in 
Appendix 10 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”) were as 
follows:

Name of directors

Capacity/Nature of interests

Interests in
shares (other
than pursuant
to equity
derivatives)(1)

Interests in
underlying
shares pursuant
to equity
derivatives(1)

Total interests
in shares/
underlying 
shares

Approximate
aggregate
percentage of
interests

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Beneficial owner

147,373,500(2)

1,400,000

365,693,294

19.97%

Interests of spouse

760,000

Interests of controlled corporation

216,159,794(3)

—

—

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Beneficial owner

Beneficial owner

Beneficial owner

1,167,000(4)

1,000,000

2,167,000

—

1,000,000

1,000,000

300,000

1,000,000

1,300,000

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Beneficial owner

4,859,500

2,000,000

40,867,000

0.12%

0.05%

0.07%

2.23%

Beneficiary of a trust

34,007,500(5)

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Beneficial owner

50,005,948

Interests of controlled corporation

37,075,030(6)

—

—

—

87,080,978

4.76%

Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher

Beneficial owner

400,000

450,000

850,000

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Beneficial owner

500,000

—

500,000

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Beneficial owner

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Beneficial owner

—

—

350,000

350,000

650,000

650,000

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Beneficial owner

2,920,000

850,000

3,770,000

0.05%

0.03%

0.02%

0.04%

0.21%

59

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Directors’ and Chief Executive’s Interests (continued)
Notes:

(1) 

Interests in shares and underlying shares stated above represent long 

positions of the Company.

The interests of the directors of the Company in the underlying shares 

pursuant to equity derivatives, which were held as beneficial owner, 

represent share options granted to them respectively pursuant to the share 

option schemes adopted by the Company, details of which are separately 
disclosed in the section headed “Share Options” below. These share options 

are physically settled and unlisted.

(2) 

It included Mr Horst Julius Pudwill’s interests in 524,000 awarded shares, 

Share Options
Scheme adopted on May 29, 2007 (“Scheme D”)
Following the termination of Scheme C, a new share option 
scheme was adopted pursuant to a resolution passed on May 
29, 2007 for recognition of the contribution to the development 
and growth of the Group by the eligible persons. This scheme will 
expire on May 28, 2017. Under Scheme D, the Board of Directors 
of the Company may grant share options to the following eligible 
persons (and their wholly owned companies) of the Company, its 
subsidiaries and any companies in which the Group holds any 
equity interest, to subscribe for shares in the Company:

which remained unvested under the Share Award Scheme as of 
December 31, 2014. Details of Mr Horst Julius Pudwill’s awarded shares 

(i) 

employees; or

are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.

(ii)  Non-executive Directors (including Independent  

(3) 

These shares were held by the following companies in which Mr Horst Julius 

Non-executive Directors or Officers); or

Pudwill has a beneficial interest:

Sunning Inc.

Cordless Industries Company Limited *

No. of shares

179,084,764

37,075,030

216,159,794

(4) 

It included Mr Joseph Galli Jr’s interests in 300,000 awarded shares, which 

(iii) 

secondees; or

(iv)  business partners, agents, consultants; or

(v) 

suppliers or customers; or

(vi)  any person or entity that provides research, development or 

other technological support; or

remained unvested under the Share Award Scheme as of December 31, 
2014. Details of Mr Joseph Galli Jr’s awarded shares are set out in the 

(vii)  shareholders.

Corporate Governance Report.

(5) 

These shares were held by a trust of which Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill is one 

of the beneficiaries.

(6) 

These shares were held by Cordless Industries Company Limited* in which 

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP has a beneficial interest.

* 

Cordless Industries Company Limited is owned as to 70% by Mr Horst 

Julius Pudwill and as to 30% by Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP.

Save as disclosed above, none of the directors and the chief 
executive of the Company was interested or had any short position 
in any shares, underlying shares or debentures of the Company 
and its associated corporations (within the meaning of Part XV of 
the SFO) as at December 31, 2014.

Share options granted must be taken up within 21 days of 
the date of grant, upon payment of HK$1.00 in cash by way 
of consideration for the grant thereof. Share options may be 
exercised at any time, subject to vesting conditions from the date 
of grant to the tenth anniversary thereof. The subscription price is 
set at the highest of: the closing price of the shares on the date of 
offer of the share option; or the average closing price of shares as 
stated in the daily quotation sheets issued by the Stock Exchange 
for the five trading days immediately preceding the date of offer; 
or the nominal value of shares on the date of offer.

The maximum number of shares in respect of which share 
options may be granted under Scheme D is not permitted to 
exceed 30.0% of the issued share capital of the Company from 
time to time or 10.0% of shares in issue as at the adoption 
date of Scheme D. No person shall be granted an option which 
exceeds 1.0% of the shares in issue as at the date of offer in any 
12-month period up to the date thereof.

60

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Report of the Directors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share Options (continued)
Options may be exercised at any time after the first anniversary of the date of grant of the share option to the tenth anniversary of the 
date of grant. The exercise price is determined by the Directors of the Company, and will not be less than the higher of (i) the closing 
price of the Company’s shares on the date of grant, (ii) the average closing price of the shares for the five business days immediately 
preceding the date of grant; and (iii) the nominal value of the Company’s share.

The following tables disclose movements in the Company’s share options during the year:

Share option

Outstanding at

Date of share

options granted

scheme

category

beginning of

Granted during

Exercised

Lapsed during

Outstanding at

Subscription

the year

the year

during the year

the year

end of the year

Share option holders

Directors

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

16.11.2009

26.11.2010

21.5.2012

20.3.2014

16.11.2009

20.3.2014

20.3.2014

21.5.2012

20.3.2014

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

21.5.2012

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

600,000

600,000

570,000

—

1,000,000

—

—

1,000,000

—

—

—

230,000

—

1,000,000

1,000,000

—

—

1,000,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

250,000

100,000

250,000

200,000

200,000

250,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(600,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(400,000)

—

—

(250,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

600,000

570,000

230,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

—

200,000

250,000

—

100,000

250,000

200,000

200,000

250,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

8,700,000

Total for directors

6,720,000

3,230,000

(1,250,000)

price

HK$

6.770

8.310

8.742

21.600

6.770

21.600

21.600

8.742

21.600

6.770

9.872

8.742

8.742

9.872

8.742

6.770

9.872

8.742

6.770

9.872

8.742

Exercise period

16.11.2009  -  15.11.2019

26.11.2010  -  25.11.2020

21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

20.3.2014  -  19.3.2024

16.11.2009  -  15.11.2019

20.3.2014  -  19.3.2024

20.3.2014  -  19.3.2024

21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

20.3.2014  -  19.3.2024

16.11.2009  -  15.11.2019

23.5.2011  -  22.5.2021

21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

23.5.2011  -  22.5.2021

21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

16.11.2009  -  15.11.2019

23.5.2011  -  22.5.2021

21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

16.11.2009  -  15.11.2019

23.5.2011  -  22.5.2021

21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

61

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share Options (continued)
The following tables disclose movements in the Company’s share options during the year: (continued)

Share option

Outstanding at

Date of share

options granted

scheme

category

beginning of

Granted during

Exercised

Lapsed during

Outstanding at

Subscription

the year

the year

during the year

the year

end of the year

Share option holders

Employees

Total for employees

Total for all categories

24.8.2007

16.10.2007

7.11.2007

14.1.2008

17.4.2008

14.5.2008

30.5.2008

16.11.2009

7.12.2009

28.12.2009

13.9.2010

17.1.2011

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

980,000

60,000

40,000

518,000

575,000

40,000

350,000

2,220,000

100,000

30,000

500,000

20,000

5,433,000

— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
—

—

—

(150,000)

—

—

(13,000)

(175,000)

—

(100,000)

(540,000)

(100,000)

—

— 
— 

 (1,078,000)                    

12,153,000

3,230,000 

(2,328,000)                       

— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
—

—

— 

— 

830,000

60,000

40,000

505,000

400,000

40,000

250,000

1,680,000

—

30,000

500,000

20,000

4,355,000 

13,055,000

price

HK$

8.390

8.810

8.088

7.566

7.780

7.500

7.546

6.770

6.790

6.390

7.390

Exercise period

24.8.2007 

-   23.8.2017

16.10.2007 

-  15.10.2017

7.11.2007 

-   6.11.2017

14.1.2008 

-   13.1.2018

17.4.2008 

-   16.4.2018

14.5.2008 

-   13.5.2018

30.5.2008 

-   29.5.2018

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

7.12.2009 

-   6.12.2019

28.12.2009 

-  27.12.2019

13.9.2010 

-   12.9.2020

10.436

17.1.2011 

-   16.1.2021

The weighted average closing price of shares immediately before the options grant date during 2014 was HK$20.40.

The closing price of the Company’s shares immediately before the date of grant was HK$20.40 in 2014.

The weighted average closing prices of the Company’s shares immediately before various dates during 2014 and 2013 on which the 
share options were exercised were HK$24.59 and HK$18.22 respectively.

The fair value of the share options granted in 2014 measured at the date of grant was HK$5.56 per option.

Arrangements to Purchase Shares or Debentures
Other than as disclosed above, at no time during the year was the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, a party to any arrangements to 
enable the directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any 
other body corporate and neither the directors or the chief executive, nor any of their spouses or children under the age of 18, had any 
right to subscribe for the securities of the Company, or had exercised any such right.

Director’s Interests in Contracts of Significance
No contract of significance, to which the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, was a party and in which a director of the Company had a 
material interest, whether directly or indirectly, subsisted at the end of the year or at any time during the year.

62

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Report of the Directors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Substantial Shareholders’ Interests
As at December 31, 2014, the interests and short positions of the following persons, other than directors and chief executive of  
the Company, in the shares, underlying shares and debentures of the Company which have been disclosed to the Company pursuant to 
Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO have been recorded in the register kept by the Company pursuant to section 336 of the SFO:

Name

FIL Limited (1)
FMR LLC (2)
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (3)

Schroders Plc (4)

Total interests in

shares (L/S/LP)*

Approximate aggregate
percentage of interests

129,216,500 (L)
147,488,000 (L)
136,099,630 (L)
1,716,929 (S)
116,184,619 (LP)
146,795,026 (L)

7.06%
8.05%
7.43%
0.09%
6.34%
8.02%

* 

(L/S/LP) represents (Long position/Short position/Lending Pool)

Notes:

(1) 

The capacity of FIL Limited in holding the 129,216,500 shares was as investment manager.

(2) 

The following is a breakdown of the interest in the shares in the Company held by FMR LLC:

Name

FMR LLC

FIDELITY MANAGEMENT & RESEARCH (HONG KONG) LIMITED

FIDELITY MANAGEMENT & RESEARCH (JAPAN)

FIDELITY MANAGEMENT & RESEARCH (U.K.)

FMR CO.

PYRAMIS GLOBAL ADVISORS TRUST COMPANY

PYRAMIS GLOBAL ADVISORS, LLC

Remarks:

Total interests in shares

Remarks

Direct

interests

(L/S)

(2a)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Deemed

interests

147,488,000

12,568,500

1,184,500

41,845,500

27,408,000

37,853,000

26,628,500

Approximate

percentage of

(L/S)

interests

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

8.05%

0.69%

0.06%

2.28%

1.50%

2.07%

1.45%

(2a) 

The capacity of FMR LLC, Inc. in holding the 147,488,000 shares of long position was as investment manager.

(2b) 

FIDELITY MANAGEMENT & RESEARCH (HONG KONG) LIMITED, FIDELITY MANAGEMENT & RESEARCH (JAPAN), FIDELITY MANAGEMENT & RESEARCH 

(U.K.), FMR CO., PYRAMIS GLOBAL ADVISORS TRUST COMPANY and PYRAMIS GLOBAL ADVISORS, LLC were all direct or indirect owned by FMR LLC and 

by virtue of the SFO, FMR LLC was deemed to be interested in the shares held by these subsidiaries.

63

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Substantial Shareholders’ Interests (continued)
Notes: (continued)

(3) 

The following is a breakdown of the interests in shares in the Company held by JPMorgan Chase & Co.:

Name

JPMorgan Chase & Co.

J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp

JF Asset Management Limited

JPMorgan Asset Management (Japan) Limited

J.P. Morgan Investment Management Inc.

J.P. Morgan Whitefriars Inc.

J.P. Morgan Securities plc

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.

Bank One International Holdings Corporation

J.P. Morgan International Inc.

J.P. Morgan Chase International Holdings

J.P. Morgan Capital Financing Limited

J.P. Morgan Securities LLC

J.P. Morgan Broker-Dealer Holdings Inc

J.P. Morgan Capital Holdings Limited

JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc

JPMorgan Asset Management (Asia) Inc.

J.P. Morgan Chase (UK) Holdings Limited

J.P. Morgan Overseas Capital Corporation

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.

J.P. Morgan International Finance Limited

Remarks:

Total interests in shares

Remarks

Direct

interests

(L/S)

(3a)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

—

—

—

3,098,470

11,822,000

291,000

6,000

2,670,972

516,929

1,200,133

1,200,000

117,011,055

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

 —
—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

(L)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Deemed

interests

136,099,630

1,716,929

116,184,619

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

3,871,105

1,716,929

3,871,105

1,716,929

1,200,133

1,200,000

1,200,133

1,200,000

3,098,470

3,098,470

1,200,133

1,200,000

12,119,000

12,113,000

1,200,133

1,200,000

2,670,972

516,929

3,871,105

1,716,929

3,871,105

1,716,929

Approximate

percentage of

(L/S/LP)

interests

(L)

(S)

(LP)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

7.43%

0.09%

6.34%

0.17%

0.65%

0.02%

0.00%

0.15%

0.03%

0.07%

0.07%

6.39%

0.21%

0.09%

0.21%

0.09%

0.07%

0.07%

0.07%

0.07%

0.17%

0.17%

0.07%

0.07%

0.66%

0.66%

0.07%

0.07%

0.15%

0.03%

0.21%

0.09%

0.21%

0.09%

(3a) 

JPMorgan Chase & Co. is listed on New York Stock Exchange. The capacity of JPMorgan Chase & Co. in holding the 136,099,630 shares of long position, 

1,716,929 shares of short position and 116,184,619 shares of lending pool respectively was as controlled corporation.

(3b) 

J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp, JF Asset Management Limited, JPMorgan Asset Management (Japan) Limited, J.P. Morgan Investment Management Inc., J.P. 

Morgan Whitefriars Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities plc, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Bank One International Holdings Corporation, J.P. Morgan International Inc., 

J.P. Morgan Chase International Holdings, J.P. Morgan Capital Financing Limited, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Broker-Dealer Holdings Inc, J.P. 

Morgan Captial Holdings Limited, JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc, JPMorgan Asset Management (Asia) Inc., J.P. Morgan Chase (UK) Holdings 

Limited, J.P. Morgan Overseas Capital Corporation and J.P. Morgan International Finance Limited were all direct or indirect owned by JPMorgan Chase & Co. 

and by virtue of the SFO, JPMorgan Chase & Co. was deemed to be interested in the shares held by these subsidiaries.

64

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Report of the Directors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Substantial Shareholders’ Interests (continued)
Notes: (continued)

(4) 

The following is a breakdown of the interests in shares in the Company held by Schroders Plc:

Name

Schroders Plc

Schroder Administration Limited

Schroder International Holdings Limited

Schroder Holdings (Bermuda) Limited

Schroder International Holdings (Bermuda) Limited

Schroder Investment Management Limited

Schroder Investment Management Limited

Schroder Investment Management North America Limited

Schroder & Co. Limited

Schroder & Co. (Asia) Limited

Schroder Nederland Finance B.V.

Schroder & Co Bank AG

Schroder Investment Management (Singapore) Limited

Schroder Investment Management (Hong Kong) Limited

Remarks:

Total interests in shares

Remarks

Direct

interests

(L/S)

(4a)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

—

—

—

—

—

12,626,000

—

16,097,000

—

399,026

—

569,000

67,213,000

49,891,000

—

—

—

—

—

(L)

—

(L)

—

(L)

—

(L)

(L)

(L)

Deemed

interests

146,795,026

146,795,026

117,104,000

117,104,000

117,104,000

—

16,097,000

—

968,026

—

569,000

—

—

—

Approximate

percentage of

(L/S)

interests

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

—

(L)

—

(L)

—

(L)

—

—

—

8.02%

8.02%

6.39%

6.39%

6.39%

0.69%

0.88%

0.88%

0.05%

0.02%

0.03%

0.03%

3.67%

2.72%

(4a) 

Schroders Plc is listed on London Stock Exchange. The capacity of Schroders Plc in holding the 146,795,026 shares of long position was as investment 

manager.

(4b) 

Schroder Administration Limited, Schroder International Holdings Limited, Schroder Holdings (Bermuda) Limited, Schroder International Holdings (Bermuda) 

Limited, Schroder Investment Management Limited, Schroder Investment Management Limited, Schroder Investment Management North America Limited, 

Schroder & Co. Limited, Schroder & Co. (Asia) Limited, Schroder Nederland Finance B.V., Schroder & Co Bank AG, Schroder Investment Management 

(Singapore) Limited and Schroder Investment Management (Hong Kong) Limited were all direct or indirect owned by Schroders Plc and by virtue of the SFO, 

Schroders Plc was deemed to be interested in the shares held by these subsidiaries.

Save as disclosed, no other person was interested in or had a short position in the shares, underlying shares and debentures of the 
Company which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under Divisions 2 and 3 of the Part XV of the SFO as at December 31, 2014.

65

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sufficiency of Public Float
The Company has maintained a sufficient public float throughout the year ended December 31, 2014.

Donations
During the year, the Group made charitable and other donations totalling US$647,000.

Auditor
A resolution will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint Messrs Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu as auditor of the Company.

On behalf of the Board

Horst Julius Pudwill
Chairman
Hong Kong

March 18, 2015

66

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Report of the DirectorsTO THE MEMBERS OF TECHTRONIC INDUSTRIES COMPANY LIMITED
創科實業有限公司
(incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability)

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Techtronic Industries Company Limited (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries 
(collectively referred to as the “Group”) set out on pages 68 to 158, which comprise the consolidated and Company statements 
of financial position as at December 31, 2014, and the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, 
consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flow for the year then ended, and a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.

Directors’ Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in 
accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the 
Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) (the “Hong Kong Companies Ordinance”), and for such internal control as the directors 
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.

Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit and to report our opinion solely 
to you, as a body, in accordance with section 80 of Schedule 11 of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance, and for no other purpose. 
We do not assume responsibility towards or accept liability to any other person for the contents of this report. We conducted our audit in 
accordance with Hong Kong Standards on Auditing issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Those standards 
require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.

An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial 
statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal 
control relevant to the entity’s preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the 
entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of 
accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.

Opinion
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group 
as at December 31, 2014, and of the Group’s profit and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Hong Kong Financial 
Reporting Standards and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance.

Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
Certified Public Accountants

Hong Kong
March 18, 2015

67

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Independent Auditor’s ReportTurnover
Cost of sales

Gross profit
Other income
Interest income
Selling, distribution, advertising and warranty expenses
Administrative expenses
Research and development costs
Finance costs

Profit before taxation
Taxation charge

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive loss:
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
  Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
  Fair value gain on foreign currency forward contracts in hedge accounting
  Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations

Other comprehensive loss for the year

Total comprehensive income for the year

Profit for the year attributable to:
  Owners of the Company
  Non-controlling interests

Total comprehensive income attributable to:
  Owners of the Company
  Non-controlling interests

Earnings per share (US cents)
  Basic

  Diluted

Notes

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

6

7
8

9

10

11

15

4,752,960
(3,079,883)

4,299,755
(2,827,445)

1,673,077
3,443
14,529
(643,817)
(564,448)
(117,992)
(39,633)

325,159
(25,680)

299,479

1,472,310
4,242
11,836
(562,835)
(505,394)
(107,079)
(36,682)

276,398
(29,036)

247,362

(6,867)

(9,143)

21,562
(26,624)

(11,929)

101
(740)

(9,782)

287,550

237,580

300,330
(851)

299,479

288,401
(851)

287,550

16.41

16.34

250,284
(2,922)

247,362

240,502
(2,922)

237,580

13.68

13.62

68

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive IncomeFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ASSETS
Non-current assets
  Property, plant and equipment
  Lease prepayments
  Goodwill

Intangible assets
Interests in associates

  Available-for-sale investments
  Derivative financial instruments
  Deferred tax assets

Current assets
Inventories

  Trade and other receivables
  Deposits and prepayments
  Bills receivable
  Tax recoverable
  Trade receivables from an associate
  Derivative financial instruments
  Held-for-trading investments
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Current liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Warranty provision
  Tax payable
  Derivative financial instruments
  Obligations under finance leases - due within one year
  Discounted bills with recourse
  Unsecured borrowings - due within one year
  Bank overdrafts

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Notes

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

16
17
18
19
22
23
29
43

24
25

26

28
29
30
31

32
33
34

29
35
36
39
31

425,366
34,706
554,137
496,082
6,515
509
11,635
86,911

383,949
36,364
532,488
459,440
15,766
520
12,647
79,064

1,615,861

1,520,238

1,056,329
819,951
85,967
31,600
6,448
4,011
39,666
1,155
690,395

884,230
783,795
76,057
26,054
15,375
2,590
5,073
1,000
698,147

2,735,522

2,492,321

1,135,530
46,845
65,819
57,945
11,499
2,277
72,652
552,048
2,619

1,039,923
40,613
52,628
50,197
13,082
977
116,704
454,624
7,887

1,947,234

1,776,635

788,288

715,686

2,404,149

2,235,924

69

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Consolidated Statement of Financial PositionAs at December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital and Reserves
  Share capital
  Reserves

Equity attributable to Owners of the Company
Non-controlling interests

Total equity

Non-current Liabilities
  Obligations under finance leases - due after one year
  Unsecured borrowings - due after one year
  Retirement benefit obligations
  Deferred tax liabilities

Notes

40

35
39
42
43

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

643,914
1,323,239

1,967,153
(127)

23,471
1,717,242

1,740,713
4,723

1,967,026

1,745,436

11,135
322,216
99,407
4,365

437,123

3,173
374,744
106,296
6,275

490,488

Total equity and non-current liabilities

2,404,149

2,235,924

The financial statements on pages 68 to 158 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on March 18, 2015 and 
are signed on its behalf by:

Chi Chung Chan
Group Executive Director

Stephan Horst Pudwill
Group Executive Director

70

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Consolidated Statement of Financial PositionAs at December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ASSETS
Non-current assets
  Property, plant and equipment
Investments in subsidiaries

  Loans to subsidiaries
Interests in associates

  Available-for-sale investments

Current assets
  Other receivables
  Deposits and prepayments
  Amounts due from subsidiaries
  Derivative financial instruments
  Held-for-trading investments
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Current liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Tax payable
  Derivative financial instruments
  Amounts due to subsidiaries
  Unsecured borrowings - due within one year

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Capital and Reserves
  Share capital
  Reserves

Non-current Liabilities
  Unsecured borrowings - due after one year

Total equity and non-current liabilities

Notes

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

16
21
21
22
23

25

27
29
30
31

32

29
27
39

40
41

39

4,825
1,007,613
841,716
5,225
189

1,859,568

5,861
4,661
1,380,060
27,897
1,155
195,383

1,431
412,256
560,129
14,478
196

988,490

6,207
5,385
1,241,483
653
1,000
52,462

1,615,017

1,307,190

33,877
2,700
8,758
494,702
379,252

919,289

695,728

26,403
2,700
7,578
579,524
371,072

987,277

319,913

2,555,296

1,308,403

643,914
1,589,166

23,471
1,005,509

2,233,080

1,028,980

322,216

279,423

2,555,296

1,308,403

Chi Chung Chan
Group Executive Director

Stephan Horst Pudwill
Group Executive Director

71

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Statement of Financial PositionAs at December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attributable to Owners of the Company

Employee 

Defined 

benefit 

Capital 

Shares held 

share-based 

obligations 

redemption 

for share 

Translation 

compensation 

remeasurement 

Share capital
US$’000

Share premium
US$’000

reserve
US$’000

award scheme
US$’000

reserve
US$’000

reserve
US$’000

reserve
US$’000

23,461

613,090

183

—

—

—

—

—

—

52

(42)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

4,473

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

42

—

—

—

—

—

23,471

617,563

225

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(225)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(2,441)

—

—

—

—

—

—

1,119

3,213

—

—

—

(740)

(740)

(740)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

379

—

—

—

(26,624)

(26,624)

(26,624)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(840)

—

366

(6)

—

—

—

2,733

—

—

—

—

—

—

(497)

—

—

1,718

—

—

—

—

—

7,174

—

(9,143)

—

—

(9,143)

(9,143)

—

—

—

—

3,325

—

—

1,356

—

(6,867)

—

—

(6,867)

(6,867)

—

—

—

—

2,282

—

—

—

—

Attributable

to non-

controlling

interests

Share of 

net assets of 

subsidiaries
US$’000

7,645

(2,922)

—

—

—

—

Total
US$’000

1,556,522

247,362

(9,143)

101

(740)

(9,782)

Retained 

profits
US$’000

901,891

250,284

—

—

—

—

Total
US$’000

1,548,877

250,284

(9,143)

101

(740)

(9,782)

250,284

240,502

(2,922)

237,580

—

(7,158)

—

6

—

(25,330)

(23,554)

3,685

(7,158)

366

—

3,325

(25,330)

(23,554)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

3,685

(7,158)

366

—

3,325

(25,330)

(23,554)

Hedging 

reserve
US$’000

(1,254)

—

—

101

—

101

101

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(1,153)

1,096,139

1,740,713

4,723

1,745,436

—

—

21,562

—

21,562

21,562

—

—

—

—

—

(1,334)

—

—

—

300,330

—

—

—

—

300,330

(6,867)

21,562

(26,624)

(11,929)

(851)

—

—

—

—

299,479

(6,867)

21,562

(26,624)

(11,929)

300,330

288,401

(851)

287,550

—

(2,486)

—

—

—

—

(32,400)

(29,458)

2,158

(2,486)

(2,441)

1,718

2,282

(1,334)

(32,400)

(29,458)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(3,999)

2,158

(2,486)

(2,441)

1,718

2,282

(1,334)

(32,400)

(33,457)

—

—

—

—

At January 1, 2013

Profit (loss) for the year

Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations

Fair value gain on foreign currency

forward contracts in hedge accounting

Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations

Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year

Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year

Shares issued at premium on exercise of options

Buy-back of shares

Recognition of equity-settled share-based payments

Lapse of share options

Deferred tax liability on remeasurement of 

  defined benefit obligations

Final dividend – 2012

Interim dividend - 2013

At December 31, 2013

Profit (loss) for the year

Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations

Fair value gain on foreign currency

forward contracts in hedge accounting

Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations

Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year

Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year

Shares issued at premium on exercise of options

1,408

1,247

Buy-back of shares

Shares for share award scheme

Recognition of equity-settled share-based payments

Deferred tax liability on remeasurement of 

  defined benefit obligations

Deferred tax liability on hedging reserve

Final dividend – 2013

Interim dividend - 2014

Transfer upon abolition of par value under the new 

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

  Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (Note)

619,035

(618,810)

At December 31, 2014

643,914

—

(2,441)

(26,245)

3,954

(3,229)

19,075

1,332,125

1,967,153

(127)

1,967,026

Note:  The Company’s shares have no par value from the commencement date of Chapter 622 of the new Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (i.e. March 3, 2014).

72

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Consolidated Statement of Changes in EquityFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Activities
Profit before taxation
Adjustments for:
  Amortisation/write-off of intangible assets
  Amortisation of lease prepayments
  Depreciation on property, plant and equipment
  Gain on a bargain purchase
  Employee share-based expense
  Fair value gain on interest rate swap
  Fair value (gain) loss on foreign currency forward contracts
  Fair value (gain) loss on held-for-trading investments
  Fair value loss on derivative financial instruments
  Finance costs

Impairment loss on available-for-sale investments
Impairment loss on held-for-trading investments
Impairment loss on interest in associates
Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment
Impairment loss on trade receivables
Impairment reversal of property, plant and equipment
Impairment of goodwill
Interest income

  Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
  Write down of inventories

Operating cash flows before movements in working capital
Increase in inventories
Increase in trade and other receivables, deposits and prepayments
(Increase) decrease in bills receivable
Increase in trade receivables from an associate
Increase in trade and other payables
Increase in bills payable
Decrease in restructuring provision
Increase in warranty provision
(Decrease) increase in retirement benefit obligations
Net payment for purchase of shares for share award scheme

Cash generated from operations
Interest paid
Hong Kong Profits Tax paid
Overseas tax paid
Hong Kong Profits Tax refunded
Overseas tax refunded

Net Cash from Operating Activities

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

325,159

276,398

69,140
802
80,848
—
1,718
(1,256)
(9,930)
(155)
1,012
39,633
—
—
3,000
—
13,147
(4,308)
—
(14,529)
12,124
12,358

528,763
(180,356)
(53,444)
(5,546)
(1,421)
89,312
6,233
—
15,263
(13,756)
(2,441)

382,607
(39,633)
(3,330)
(28,456)
411
12,159

323,758

66,972
804
74,232
(38,319)
366
(1,465)
1,081
4,324
—
36,682
723
1,402
—
19,344
3,923
—
3,390
(11,836)
10,114
30,532

478,667
(215,765)
(99,414)
22,725
(2,544)
326,292
1,390
(531)
5,908
3,831
—

520,559
(36,682)
(1,410)
(24,343)
716
5,222

464,062

73

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Consolidated Statement of Cash FlowFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note

44

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

(48,151)
(95,664)
—
14,529
—
16,764
(144,013)
6,251

(21,823)
(89,109)
(1,000)
11,836
253
6,386
(104,615)
1,957

(250,284)

(196,115)

(41,848)
—
(61,858)
(3,999)
2,531,802
2,158
(2,486,473)
—
(1,134)
(2,486)

(317,097)
(1,050)
(48,884)
—
1,111,936
3,685
(890,039)
(39,375)
(1,198)
(7,158)

(63,838)

(189,180)

9,636

690,260
(12,120)

687,776

690,395
(2,619)

687,776

78,767

610,561
932

690,260

698,147
(7,887)

690,260

Investing Activities
Acquisition of businesses
Additions to intangible assets
Increase in held-for-trading investments
Interest received
Proceeds from disposal of held-for-trading investments
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Repayment from associates

Net Cash Used in Investing Activities

Financing Activities
Decrease in discounted bills with recourse
Decrease in trust receipt loans
Dividends paid
Dividend paid to minority shareholders
New bank loans obtained
Proceeds from issue of shares
Repayment of bank loans
Repayment of fixed interest rate notes
Repayment of obligations under finance leases
Buy-back of shares

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities

Net Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of the Year
Effect of Foreign Exchange Rate Changes

Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of the Year

Analysis of the Balances of Cash and Cash Equivalents
Represented by:
  Bank balances, deposits and cash
  Bank overdrafts

74

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Consolidated Statement of Cash FlowFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  General

The Company is a public limited company incorporated in Hong Kong and its shares are listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong 
Kong Limited (the “Stock Exchange”). The address of the registered office and principal place of business of the Company is 24/F., 
CDW Building, 388 Castle Peak Road, Tsuen Wan, N.T., Hong Kong.

The principal activities of the Group are the manufacturing and trading of electrical and electronic products.

The functional currency of the Company is United States dollars.

2.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”)

In the current year, the Group and the Company have applied the following amendments to HKFRSs and a new interpretation 
issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“HKICPA”):

Amendments to HKAS 32
Amendments to HKAS 36
Amendments to HKAS 39
Amendments to HKFRS 10,
  HKFRS 12 and HKAS 27
HK(IFRIC) - Int 21

Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets
Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting
Investment Entities

Levies

The application of the revised and amendments to HKFRSs in the current year has had no material impact on the Group’s and 
the Company’s financial performance and positions for the current and prior years and/or on the disclosures set out in these 
consolidated financial statements.

New and revised HKFRSs issued but not yet effective
The Group have not early applied the following new and revised HKFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective as at 
January 1, 2014:

HKFRS 9
HKFRS 14
HKFRS 15
Amendments to HKAS 1
Amendments to HKAS 16 and HKAS 38
Amendments to HKAS 16 and HKAS 41
Amendments to HKAS 19
Amendments to HKAS 27
Amendments to HKFRS 10 
  and HKAS 28
Amendments to HKFRS 11
Amendments to HKFRS 10,
  HKFRS 12 and HKAS 28
Amendments to HKFRSs
Amendments to HKFRSs
Amendments to HKFRSs

Financial Instruments1
Regulatory Deferral Accounts2
Revenue from Contracts with Customers3
Disclosure Initiative4
Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation4
Agriculture: Bearer Plants4
Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions5
Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements4
Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and

its Associate or Joint Venture4

Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations4
Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception4

Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2010 - 2012 Cycle6
Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2011 - 2013 Cycle5
Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2012 - 2014 Cycle4

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018.

Effective for first annual HKFRS financial statements beginning on or after January 1, 2016.

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2017.

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2016.

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after July 1, 2014.

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after July 1, 2014, with limited exceptions.

75

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
2.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) (continued)

Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle
The “Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle” include a number of amendments to various HKFRSs, which are 
summarised below.

The amendments to HKFRS 2 (i) change the definitions of ‘vesting condition’ and ‘market condition’; and (ii) add definitions for 
‘performance condition’ and ‘service condition’ which were previously included within the definition of ‘vesting condition’. The 
amendments to HKFRS 2 are effective for share-based payment transactions for which the grant date is on or after July 1, 2014.

The amendments to HKFRS 3 clarify that contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability should be measured 
at fair value at each reporting date, irrespective of whether the contingent consideration is a financial instrument within the scope 
of HKFRS 9 or HKAS 39 or a non-financial asset or liability. Changes in fair value (other than measurement period adjustments) 
should be recognised in profit and loss. The amendments to HKFRS 3 are effective for business combinations for which the 
acquisition date is on or after July 1, 2014.

The amendments to the basis for conclusions of HKFRS 13 clarify that the issue of HKFRS 13 and consequential amendments to 
HKAS 39 and HKFRS 9 did not remove the ability to measure short-term receivables and payables with no stated interest rate at 
their invoice amounts without discounting, if the effect of discounting is immaterial.

The amendments to HKAS 16 and HKAS 38 remove perceived inconsistencies in the accounting for accumulated depreciation/
amortisation when an item of property, plant and equipment or an intangible asset is revalued. The amended standards clarify 
that the gross carrying amount is adjusted in a manner consistent with the revaluation of the carrying amount of the asset and that 
accumulated depreciation/amortisation is the difference between the gross carrying amount and the carrying amount after taking 
into account accumulated impairment losses.

The amendments to HKAS 24 clarify that a management entity providing key management personnel services to a reporting 
entity is a related party of the reporting entity. Consequently, the reporting entity should disclose as related party transactions 
the amounts incurred for the service paid or payable to the management entity for the provision of key management personnel 
services. However, disclosure of the components of such compensation is not required.

The directors do not anticipate that the application of the amendments included in the “Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2010-
2012 Cycle” will have a material effect on the Group’s consolidated financial statements.

Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle
The “Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle” include a number of amendments to various HKFRSs, which are 
summarised below.

The amendments to HKFRS 13 clarify that the scope of the portfolio exception for measuring the fair value of a group of financial 
assets and financial liabilities on a net basis includes all contracts that are within the scope of, and accounted for in accordance 
with, HKAS 39 or HKFRS 9, even if those contracts do not meet the definitions of financial assets or financial liabilities within 
HKAS 32.

The directors do not anticipate that the application of the amendments included in the “Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2011-
2013 Cycle” will have a material effect on the Group’s consolidated financial statements.

76

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
2.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) (continued)

Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle
The “Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle” include a number of amendments to various HKFRSs, which are 
summarised below.

The amendments to HKFRS 7 provide additional guidance to clarify whether a servicing contract is continuing involvement 
in a transferred asset for the purpose of the disclosures required in relation to transferred assets and clarify that the offsetting 
disclosures (introduced in the amendments to HKFRS 7 Disclosure – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities issued in 
December 2011 and effective for periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013) are not explicitly required for all interim periods. 
However, the disclosures may need to be included in condensed interim financial statements to comply with HKAS 34 Interim 
Financial Reporting.

The amendments to HKAS 19 clarify that the high quality corporate bonds used to estimate the discount rate for post employment 
benefits should be issued in the same currency as the benefits to be paid. These amendments would result in the depth of the 
market for high quality corporate bonds being assessed at currency level. The amendments apply from the beginning of the 
earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements in which the amendments are first applied. Any initial adjustment 
arising should be recognised in retained earnings at the beginning of that period.

The amendments to HKAS 34 clarify the requirements relating to information required by HKAS 34 that is presented elsewhere 
within the interim financial report but outside the interim financial statements. The amendments require that such information be 
incorporated by way of a cross-reference from the interim financial statements to the other part of the interim financial report that 
is available to users on the same terms and at the same time as the interim financial statements.

The directors of the Company do not anticipate that the application of these will have a material effect on the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements.

77

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
2.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) (continued)

HKFRS 9 Financial Instruments
HKFRS 9 issued in 2009 introduces new requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets. HKFRS 9 
amended in 2010 includes the requirements for the classification and measurement of financial liabilities and for derecognition, 
and further amended in 2013 to include the new requirements for hedge accounting. Another revised version of HKFRS 9 was 
issued in 2014 mainly to include a) impairment requirements for financial assets and b) limited amendments to the classification 
and measurement requirements by introducing a ‘fair value through other comprehensive income’ (FVTOCI) measurement 
category for certain simple debt instruments.

Key requirements of HKFRS 9 are described as follows:

• 

• 

• 

• 

All recognised financial assets that are within the scope of HKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement 
are subsequently measured at amortised cost or fair value. Specifically, debt investments that are held within a business 
model whose objective is to collect the contractual cash flows, and that have contractual cash flows that are solely payments 
of principal and interest on the principal outstanding are generally measured at amortised cost at the end of subsequent 
accounting periods. Debt instruments that are held within a business model whose objective is achieved both by collecting 
contractual cash flows and selling financial assets, and that have contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on 
specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, 
are measured at FVTOCI. All other debt investments and equity investments are measured at their fair value at the end 
of subsequent accounting periods. In addition, under HKFRS 9, entities may make an irrevocable election to present 
subsequent changes in the fair value of an equity investment (that is not held for trading) in other comprehensive income, 
with only dividend income generally recognised in profit or loss.

With regard to the measurement of financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss, HKFRS 9 requires 
that the amount of change in the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of that 
liability is presented in other comprehensive income, unless the recognition of the effects of changes in the liability’s credit 
risk in other comprehensive income would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss. Changes in fair value 
of financial liabilities attributable to changes in the financial liabilities’ credit risk are not subsequently reclassified to profit 
or loss. Under HKAS 39, the entire amount of the change in the fair value of the financial liability designated as fair value 
through profit or loss was presented in profit or loss.

In relation to the impairment of financial assets, HKFRS 9 requires an expected credit loss model, as opposed to an incurred 
credit loss model under HKAS 39. The expected credit loss model requires an entity to account for expected credit losses 
and changes in those expected credit losses at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition. 
In other words, it is no longer necessary for a credit event to have occurred before credit losses are recognised.

The new general hedge accounting requirements retain the three types of hedge accounting. However, greater flexibility has 
been introduced to the types of transactions eligible for hedge accounting, specifically broadening the types of instruments 
that qualify for hedging instruments and the types of risk components of non-financial items that are eligible for hedge 
accounting. In addition, the effectiveness test has been overhauled and replaced with the principle of an ‘economic 
relationship’. Retrospective assessment of hedge effectiveness is also no longer required. Enhanced disclosure requirements 
about an entity’s risk management activities have also been introduced.

The directors anticipate that the adoption of HKFRS 9 in the future may have an impact on amounts reported in respect of the 
Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities. However, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of that effect until a 
detailed review has been completed.

78

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
2.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) (continued)

HKFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
In July 2014, HKFRS 15 was issued which establishes a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue 
arising from contracts with customers. HKFRS 15 will supersede the current revenue recognition guidance including HKAS 18 
Revenue, HKAS 11 Construction Contracts and the related Interpretations when it becomes effective.

The core principle of HKFRS 15 is that an entity should recognise revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to 
customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or 
services. Specifically, the Standard introduces a 5-step approach to revenue recognition:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Step 1: Identify the contract(s) with a customer

Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract

Step 3: Determine the transaction price

Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract

Step 5: Recognise revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation

Under HKFRS 15, an entity recognises revenue when (or as) a performance obligation is satisfied, i.e. when ‘control’ of the goods 
or services underlying the particular performance obligation is transferred to the customer. Far more prescriptive guidance has 
been added in HKFRS 15 to deal with specific scenarios. Furthermore, extensive disclosures are required by HKFRS 15.

The directors of the Company do not anticipate that the application of these amendments to HKFRS 15 will have a material impact 
on the Group’s consolidated financial statements.

Amendments to HKAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions
The amendments to HKAS 19 clarify how an entity should account for contributions made by employees or third parties to defined 
benefit plans, based on whether those contributions are dependent on the number of years of service provided by the employee.

For contributions that are independent of the number of years of service, the entity may either recognise the contributions as a 
reduction in the service cost in the period in which the related service is rendered, or to attribute them to the employees’ periods 
of service using the projected unit credit method; whereas for contributions that are dependent on the number of years of service, 
the entity is required to attribute them to the employees’ periods of service.

The directors of the Company do not anticipate that the application of these amendments to HKAS 19 will have a material impact 
on the Group’s consolidated financial statements.

Amendments to HKAS 16 and HKAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and 
Amortisation
The amendments to HKAS 16 prohibit entities from using a revenue-based depreciation method for items of property, plant 
and equipment. The amendments to HKAS 38 introduce a rebuttable presumption that revenue is not an appropriate basis for 
amortisation of an intangible asset. This presumption can only be rebutted in the following two limited circumstances:

a) 

when the intangible asset is expressed as a measure of revenue; or

b) 

when it can be demonstrated that revenue and consumption of the economic benefits of the intangible asset are highly 
correlated.

79

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
2.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) (continued)

Amendments to HKAS 16 and HKAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and 
Amortisation (continued)
The amendments apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2016. Currently, the Group uses the 
straight-line method for depreciation and amortisation for its property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets respectively. 
The directors of the Company believe that the straight-line method is the most appropriate method to reflect the consumption 
of economic benefits inherent in the respective assets and accordingly, the directors of the Company do not anticipate that the 
application of these amendments to HKAS 16 and HKAS 38 will have a material impact on the Group’s consolidated financial 
statements.

The directors anticipate that the application of the other new and revised HKFRSs will have no material impact on Company’s 
financial performance and financial position for the current and prior year and/or on the disclosures set out in these financial 
statements.

3.  Significant Accounting Policies

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with HKFRSs issued by the HKICPA. In addition, the 
consolidated financial statements include applicable disclosures required by the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The 
Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”) and by transitional and saving arrangements for Part 9 of the Hong 
Kong Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622).

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments, 
which are measured at fair value, as explained in the accounting policies set out below.

Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods.

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation 
technique. In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or 
liability if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement 
date. Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure purposes in these consolidated financial statements is determined on such a 
basis, except for share-based payment transactions that are within the scope of HKFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the 
scope of HKAS 17, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realisable value 
in HKAS 2 or value in use in HKAS 36.

In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to 
which the inputs to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in 
its entirety, which are described as follows:

• 

• 

Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at 
the measurement date;

Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly or indirectly; and

• 

Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.

The principal accounting policies are set out below.

80

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company 
and its subsidiaries. Control is achieved when the Company:

• 

• 

• 

has the power over the investee;

is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and

has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.

The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or 
more of the three elements of control listed above.

Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control 
of the subsidiary. Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the 
consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income from the date the Group gains control until the date when 
the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.

Profit or loss and each item of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling 
interests. Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling 
interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.

When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with 
the Group’s accounting policies.

All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the 
Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.

Allocation of Total Comprehensive Income to Non-controlling Interests
Total comprehensive income and expense of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling 
interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance (effective from January 1, 2010 onwards).

Changes in the Group’s Ownership Interests in Existing Subsidiaries
Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing control over the subsidiaries are 
accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of the Group’s interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted 
to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling 
interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to 
owners of the Company.

When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss and is calculated as the difference 
between (i) the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and (ii) the 
previous carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill), and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests. All 
amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to that subsidiary are accounted for as if the Group 
had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities of the subsidiary (i.e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred to another 
category of equity as specified/permitted by applicable HKFRSs). The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary 
at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under HKAS 39, when 
applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or a joint venture.

81

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Business Combinations
Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in a business 
combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets transferred 
by the Group, liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group in 
exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are generally recognised in profit or loss as incurred.

At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value at the 
acquisition date, except that:

• 

• 

• 

deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and 
measured in accordance with HKAS 12 “Income Taxes” and HKAS 19 “Employee Benefits” respectively;

liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree or share based payment 
arrangements of the Group entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in 
accordance with HKFRS 2 “Share-based Payment” at the acquisition date (see the accounting policy below); and

assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with HKFRS 5 “Non-current Assets Held for 
Sale and Discontinued Operations” are measured in accordance with that standard.

Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the 
acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any) over the net of the acquisition-
date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. If, after re-assessment, the net of the acquisition-date 
amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount 
of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held interest in the acquiree (if any), 
the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.

Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net 
assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate 
share of the recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on a 
transaction-by-transaction basis. Other types of non-controlling interests are measured at their fair value or, when applicable, on 
the basis specified in another standard.

Where the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a 
contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and considered 
as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration 
that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with the corresponding adjustments made 
against goodwill. Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the 
“measurement period” (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date) about facts and circumstances that existed at 
the acquisition date.

The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period 
adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not 
remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration 
that is classified as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with HKAS 39, or HKAS 37 
“Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”, as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognised in 
profit or loss.

82

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Goodwill
Goodwill arising on an acquisition of a business is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, if any, and is presented 
separately in the consolidated statement of financial position.

For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units (or groups of cash 
generating units) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.

A cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently whenever there 
is indication that the unit may be impaired. For goodwill arising on an acquisition in a reporting period, the cash generating unit to 
which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment before the end of that reporting period.

If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the cash generating unit, the impairment 
loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro 
rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised directly in profit 
or loss in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in 
subsequent periods.

On disposal of the relevant cash generating unit, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the amount 
of profit or loss on disposal.

Investments in Subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are included in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less any identified impairment 
losses. The results of subsidiaries are accounted for by the Company on the basis of dividends received and receivable.

Interests in Associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the 
financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.

The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these consolidated financial statements using the equity 
method of accounting. Under the equity method, investments in associates are initially recognised in the consolidated statement 
of financial position at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Group’s share of profit or loss and other comprehensive 
income of the associates. When the Group’s share of profit or loss of an associate exceeds the Group’s interest in that associate 
(which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the associate), the Group 
discontinues recognising its share of further losses. Additional losses are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred 
legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of that associate.

An investment in an associate is accounted for using the equity method from the date on which the investee becomes an 
associate. On acquisition of the investment in an associate, any excess of the cost of the investment over the Group’s share of the 
net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the investee is recognised as goodwill, which is included within the carrying 
amount of the investment. Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities over the cost 
of the investment, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss in the period in which the investment is acquired.

The requirements of HKAS 39 are applied to determine whether it is necessary to recognise any impairment loss with respect to 
the Group’s investment in an associate or a joint venture. When necessary, the entire carrying amount of the investment (including 
goodwill) is tested for impairment in accordance with HKAS 36 Impairment of Assets as a single asset by comparing its recoverable 
amount (higher of value in use and fair value less costs of disposal) with its carrying amount. Any impairment loss recognised 
forms part of the carrying amount of the investment. Any reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in accordance with HKAS 
36 to the extent that the recoverable amount of the investment subsequently increases.

83

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Interests in Associates (continued)
The Group discontinues the use of the equity method from the date when the investment ceases to be an associate, or when 
the investment (or a portion thereof) is classified as held for sale. When the Group retains an interest in the former associate and 
the retained interest is a financial asset, the Group measures the retained interest at fair value at that date and the fair value is 
regarded as its fair value on initial recognition in accordance with HKAS 39. The difference between the carrying amount of the 
associate at the date the equity method was discontinued, and the fair value of any retained interest and any proceeds from 
disposing of a part interest in the associate is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal of the associate. In 
addition, the Group accounts for all amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to that associate 
on the same basis as would be required if that associate had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. Therefore, if a 
gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income by that associate would be reclassified to profit or loss on the 
disposal of the related assets or liabilities, the Group reclassifies the gain or loss from equity to profit or loss (as a reclassification 
adjustment) when the equity method is discontinued.

When the Group reduces its ownership interest in an associate but the Group continues to use the equity method, the Group 
reclassifies to profit or loss the proportion of the gain or loss that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive income 
relating to that reduction in ownership interest if that gain or loss would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related 
assets or liabilities.

When a group entity transacts with an associate of the Group (such as a sale or contribution of assets), profits and losses resulting 
from the transactions with the associate are recognised in the Group’s consolidated financial statements only to the extent of 
interests in the associate that are not related to the Group.

Intangible Assets

Intangible Assets Acquired Separately
Intangible assets acquired separately and with finite useful lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any 
accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of intangible assets with finite useful lives is provided on a straight-line basis 
over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting 
period, with the effect of any changes in estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis. Alternatively, intangible assets with 
indefinite useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less any subsequent accumulated impairment losses (see the 
accounting policy in respect of impairment losses on tangible and intangible assets below).

An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from use or disposal. Gains or 
losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured at the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in profit or loss in the period when the asset is derecognised.

Intangible Assets Acquired in a Business Combination
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised separately from goodwill and are initially measured at their 
fair value at the acquisition date. The cost of such intangible assets is their fair value at the acquisition date.

Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets with finite useful lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any 
accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of intangible assets with finite useful lives is provided on a straight-line basis over 
their estimated useful lives.

Alternatively, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are carried at cost less any subsequent accumulated impairment losses 
(see the accounting policy in respect of impairment losses on tangible and intangible assets below).

84

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Intangible Assets (continued)

Research and Development Expenditure
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.

An internally-generated intangible asset arising from development (or from the development phase of an internal project) is 
recognised only if all of the following have been demonstrated:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale;

the intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it;

the ability to use or sell the intangible asset;

how the intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits;

the availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the 
intangible asset; and

• 

the ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development.

The amount initially recognised for an internally-generated intangible asset is the sum of the expenditure incurred from the date 
when the intangible asset first meets the recognition criteria. Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, 
development expenditure is charged to profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred.

Subsequent to initial recognition, an internally-generated intangible asset is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets acquired separately.

Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.

The Group and the Company as Lessee
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group and the Company at their fair value at the inception of the 
lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the 
consolidation statement of financial position as a finance lease obligation.

Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and a reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate 
of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance expenses are recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless they are 
directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Group’s policy on borrowing 
costs (see the accounting policy below).

Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.

In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability. The 
aggregate benefits of incentives are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis.

85

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Leasehold Land and Building
When a lease includes both land and building elements, the Group and the Company assess the classification of each element 
as a finance or an operating lease separately based on the assessment as to whether substantially all the risks and rewards 
incidental to ownership of each element have been transferred to the Group or the Company, unless it is clear that both elements 
are operating leases in which case the entire lease is classified as an operating lease. Specifically, the minimum lease payments 
(including any lump-sum upfront payments) are allocated between the land and the building elements in proportion to the relative 
fair values of the leasehold interests in the land element and building element of the lease at the inception of the lease.

To the extent the allocation of the lease payments can be made reliably, interest in leasehold land that is accounted for as an 
operating lease is presented as “lease payments” in the consolidated statement of financial position and is amortised over the 
lease term on a straight-line basis. When the lease payments cannot be allocated reliably between the land and building elements, 
the entire lease is generally classified as a finance lease and accounted for as property, plant and equipment, unless it is clear that 
both elements are operating leases, in which case the entire lease is classified as an operating lease.

Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment including buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for 
administrative purposes, other than construction in progress, are stated in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost 
less subsequent accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.

Freehold land is not depreciated.

Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of items of property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land and construction 
in progress, over their estimated useful lives and after taking into account of their estimated residual value, using the straight-line 
method. The estimated useful lives, residual values and defined depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting 
period with the effect of any changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.

Construction in progress includes property, plant and equipment in the course of construction for production or for its own 
use purposes. Construction in progress is carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss. Cost includes professional fees 
capitalised in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. Construction in progress is classified to the appropriate category of 
property, plant and equipment when completed and ready for its intended use. Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as 
other property, plant and equipment, commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.

Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where 
shorter, the term of the relevant lease. However, when there is no reasonable certainty that ownership will be obtained by the end 
of the lease term, assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives.

An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to 
arise from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as the difference 
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item) is included in profit or loss in the period in which the item 
is derecognised.

86

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Impairment Losses on Tangible and Intangible Assets other than Goodwill (see the Accounting 
Policy in Respect of Goodwill Above)
At the end of the reporting period, the Group and the Company review the carrying amounts of its assets to determine whether 
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount 
of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any. When it is not possible to estimate the 
recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which 
the asset belongs. Where a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated 
to individual cash generating units, or otherwise they are allocated to the smallest group of cash generating units for which a 
reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified.

Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least 
annually, and whenever there is an indication that they may be impaired.

The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of 
the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.

If the recoverable amount of an asset (or a cash generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying 
amount of the asset (or a cash generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised 
immediately in profit or loss.

Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or a cash generating unit is increased to the 
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or a cash generating unit in prior years. A 
reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.

Financial Instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position when a group entity 
becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.

Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, 
on initial recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss.

Financial Assets
The Group’s and the Company’s financial assets are classified into one of the three categories, including financial assets at fair 
value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”), loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends 
on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition. All regular way purchases or 
sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis. Regular way purchases or sales are purchases 
or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the time frame established by regulation or convention in the 
marketplace.

Effective Interest Method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income 
over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all 
fees paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) 
through the expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount on initial 
recognition.

Interest income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified as at 
FVTPL, of which interest income is included in net gains or losses.

87

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)

Financial Assets (continued)

Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss
Financial assets at FVTPL include financial assets held for trading.

A financial asset is classified as held for trading if:

• 

• 

it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near future; or

it is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern 
of short-term profit-taking; or

• 

it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.

Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value arising from remeasurement recognised directly 
in profit or loss in the period in which they arise. The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss includes any dividend or interest 
earned on the financial assets.

Loans and Receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables (including trade and other receivables, amounts due from 
associates, bills receivable, trade receivables from an associate, loans to subsidiaries, amounts due from subsidiaries and bank 
balances, deposits and cash) are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any identified impairment 
losses (see accounting policy in respect of impairment of financial assets below).

Available-for-sale Financial Assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated or not classified as financial assets at FVTPL, loans 
and receivables or held-to-maturity investments.

For available-for-sale equity investments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot 
be reliably measured, they are measured at cost less any identified impairment losses at the end of each reporting period (see 
accounting policy in respect of impairment of financial assets below).

Impairment of Financial Assets
Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of each reporting period. 
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial 
recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the financial assets have been affected.

For all other financial assets, objective evidence of impairment could include:

• 

• 

• 

significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty; or

default or delinquency in interest or principal payments; or

it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.

For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables and trade receivables from an associate, assets that are 
assessed not to be impaired individually are, in addition, subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis. Objective 
evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Group’s and the Company’s past experience of collecting 
payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period of 30 to 120 days, or 
observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.

88

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)

Financial Assets (continued)

Impairment of Financial Assets (continued)
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment loss recognised is the difference between the asset’s 
carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original effective 
interest rate.

For financial assets carried at cost, the amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar 
financial asset. Such impairment loss will not be reversed in subsequent periods.

The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of 
trade receivables and trade receivables from an associate, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance 
account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss. When a trade receivable is 
considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off 
are credited to profit or loss.

When an available-for-sale financial asset is considered to be impaired, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss in the period in which the impairment takes place.

For financial assets measured at amortised cost, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of an impairment loss decreases and the 
decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, the previously recognised 
impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset at the date the impairment is 
reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.

Impairment losses on available-for-sale equity investments will not be reversed through profit or loss in subsequent periods. Any 
increase in fair value subsequent to impairment loss is recognised directly in other comprehensive income.

Financial Liabilities and Equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by a group entity are classified either as financial liabilities or as equity in 
accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an 
equity instrument.

Equity Instrument
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group and the Company after deducting 
all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Group and the Company are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct 
issue costs.

Buy-back of the Company’s own equity instruments is recognised and deducted directly in equity. No gain or loss is recognised in 
profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s own equity instruments.

Effective Interest Method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense 
over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments (including all 
fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or 
discounts) through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on 
initial recognition.

Interest expense is recognised on an effective interest basis.

89

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)

Financial Liabilities and Equity (continued)

Other Financial Liabilities
Other financial liabilities (including unsecured borrowings, trade and other payables, bills payable, discounted bills with recourse, 
bank overdrafts and amounts due to subsidiaries) are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest 
method.

Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date when a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured to their fair value at the end of the reporting period. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss 
immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition 
in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.

Hedge Accounting
The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions for foreign currency exposure (cash 
flow hedges).

At the inception of the hedging relationship the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the 
hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, 
at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a 
hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.

Cash Flow Hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised 
in other comprehensive income and accumulated in hedging reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in profit or loss.

Financial Guarantee Contracts
A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a 
loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of 
a debt instrument. A financial guarantee contract issued by the Group and the Company and not designated as at fair value 
through profit or loss is recognised initially at its fair value less transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the 
financial guarantee contract. Subsequent to initial recognition, the Group measures the financial guarantee contract at the higher 
of: (i) the amount of obligation under the contract, as determined in accordance with HKAS 37 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities 
and Contingent Assets”; and (ii) the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in 
accordance with the revenue recognition policy.

Derecognition
The Group and the Company derecognise a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, 
or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the 
Group and the Company neither transfer nor retain substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control 
the transferred asset, the Group and the Company continue to recognise the asset to the extent of its continuing involvement 
and recognises an associated liability. If the Group and the Company retain substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
of a transferred financial asset, the Group and the Company continue to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a 
collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.

On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the sum of the 
consideration received and receivable and the cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive income 
and accumulated in equity is recognised in profit or loss.

90

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)

Derecognition (continued)
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation specified in the relevant contract is discharged, cancelled or expires. The 
difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised and the consideration paid is recognised in profit or 
loss.

Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group and the Company have a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable 
that the Group and the Company will be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of 
the obligation. Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end 
of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured 
using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows (where 
the effect of the time value of money is material).

A provision for warranties is recognised at the time the products are sold based on the estimated cost using historical data for the 
level of repairs and replacements.

For a provision in relation to employee termination benefits, the liability and expenses are recognised when the Group committed 
to terminate the employment of an employee or group of employees before their normal retirement date or provide termination 
benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.

Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost of inventories is calculated using the first-in, first-out 
method. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price for inventories less all estimated costs of completion and costs 
necessary to make the sales.

Revenue Recognition
Turnover is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods 
sold by the Group and the Company to outside customers in the normal course of business, less returns and allowances, and 
commission income and royalty income received.

Turnover from sales of goods is recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.

Commission income is recognised when services are provided.

Royalty income is recognised on a time proportion basis in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreements.

Interest income from a financial asset is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the 
amount of income can be measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding 
and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that discounts the estimated future cash receipts through the 
expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount on initial recognition.

Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ right to receive payment have been established.

91

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Taxation
Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.

The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the 
consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense that 
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s and the 
Company’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the 
reporting period.

Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are 
generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary 
differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can 
be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from initial recognition of goodwill or 
from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither 
the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.

Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, 
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such 
investments and interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against 
which to utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of the reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is 
settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the 
reporting period.

The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which 
the Group and the Company expect, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and 
liabilities. Deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss, except when it relates to items that are recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity 
respectively.

Current and deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss, except when it relates to items that are recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or 
directly in equity respectively. Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the 
tax effect is included in the accounting for the business combination.

92

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Foreign Currencies
In preparing the financial statements of each individual group entity, transactions in currencies other than the functional currency 
of that entity (foreign currencies) are recorded in its respective functional currency (i.e. the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates) at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At the end of each 
reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates at that date. Non-
monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.

Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are recognised in 
profit or loss in the period in which they arise, except for exchange differences arising on a monetary item that form part of the 
Company’s net investment in a foreign operation, in which case, such exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive 
income and accumulated in equity and will be reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.

For the purposes of presenting the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations 
are translated into the presentation currency of the Group (i.e. United States dollars) at the rate of exchange prevailing at the end 
of each reporting period, and their income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates for the year. Exchange 
differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity under the heading of 
translation reserve (attributed to non-controlling interests as appropriate).

On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e. a disposal of the Group’s entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss 
of control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of significant influence over an associate 
that includes a foreign operation), all of the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation attributable to 
the owners of the Company are reclassified to profit or loss. In addition, in relation to a partial disposal of a subsidiary that does not 
result in the Group losing control over the subsidiary, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are reattributed 
to non-controlling interests and are not recognised in profit or loss. For all other partial disposals (i.e. partial disposals of associates 
that do not result in the Group losing significant influence), the proportionate share of the accumulated exchange differences is 
reclassified to profit or loss.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identifiable assets acquired arising on an acquisition of a foreign operation on or after 
January 1, 2005 are treated as assets and liabilities of that foreign operation and retranslated at the rate of exchange prevailing at 
the end of the reporting date. Exchange differences arising are recognised in the translation reserve.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identifiable assets acquired arising on acquisitions of foreign operations before January 1, 
2005 are treated as non-monetary foreign currency items of the acquirer and reported using the historical exchange rate prevailing 
at the date of the acquisition.

Borrowing Costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that 
necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets 
until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Investment income earned on the temporary 
investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for 
capitalisation.

All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.

93

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Equity-Settled Share-Based Payment Transactions
The fair value of services received determined by reference to the fair value of share options granted at the grant date is expensed 
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity (employee share-based compensation 
reserve).

At the end of each reporting period, the Group and the Company revise its estimates of the number of options that are expected 
to ultimately vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates during the vesting period, such that the cumulative 
expenses reflecting the revised estimate, is recognised in profit or loss, with a corresponding adjustment to employee share-based 
compensation reserve.

At the time when the share options are exercised, the amount previously recognised in employee share-based compensation 
reserve will be transferred to share capital (share premium before March 3, 2014). When the share options are forfeited or are 
still not exercised at the expiry date, the amount previously recognised in the employee share-based compensation reserve will be 
transferred to retained profits.

The fair value of services received determined by reference to the fair value of shares awarded at the grant date is expensed on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity (employee share-based compensation reserve).

When trustee purchases the Company’s shares from the open market, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable 
incremental costs, is presented as shares held for share award scheme and deducted from total equity. No gain or loss is 
recognised on the transactions of the Company’s own shares.

When the trustee transfers the Company’s shares to grantees upon vesting, the related costs of the granted shares vested are 
reversed from shares held under share award scheme. Accordingly, the related expense of the granted shares vested is reversed 
from employee share-based compensation reserve. The difference arising from such transfer is debited/credited to retained profits. 
At the end of the reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of shares that are expected to ultimately vest. 
The impact of the revision of the estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss with a corresponding adjustment to the employee 
share-based compensation reserve.

Retirement Benefit Schemes
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes and the Mandatory Provident Fund Scheme are charged as 
expenses when employees have rendered service entitling them to the contributions.

For defined benefit retirement benefits plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, 
with actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each annual reporting period. Remeasurement, comprising actuarial 
gains and losses, the effect of the changes to the asset ceiling (if applicable) and the return on plan assets (excluding interest), 
is reflected immediately in the statement of financial position with a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income 
in the period in which they occur. Remeasurement recognised in other comprehensive income is reflected immediately in 
retained earnings and will not be reclassified to profit or loss. Past service cost is recognised in profit or loss in the period of a 
plan amendment. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit 
liability or asset. Defined benefit costs are categorised as follows:

• 

• 

• 

service cost (including current service cost, past service cost, as well as gains and losses on curtailments and settlements);

net interest expense or income; and

remeasurement.

The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the actual deficit or 
surplus in the Group’s defined benefit plans. Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any 
economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.

94

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Government Grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching 
to them and that the grants will be received. Government grants are recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis over the 
periods in which the Group recognised as expenses the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate.

4.  Key Sources of Accounting Estimates

In the application of the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 3, the directors of the 
Company are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that 
are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and 
other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in 
the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods 
if the revision affects both current and future periods.

Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty
The following are key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the 
reporting period that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within 
the next financial year.

Estimated Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Useful Lives
Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are impaired requires an estimation of the value 
in use of the cash generating units to which goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives have been allocated. The 
value in use calculation requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash generating unit and 
a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value. As at December 31, 2014, the carrying amount of goodwill and 
intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are approximately US$554,137,000 (2013: US$532,488,000) and approximately 
US$219,934,000 (2013: US$213,934,000) respectively. Details of the recoverable amount calculation are disclosed in Note 20.

Useful Lives and Estimated Impairment of Deferred Development Costs
As at December 31, 2014, the carrying amounts of deferred development costs of the Group are US$238,286,000 (2013: 
US$207,977,000). The estimation of their useful lives impacts the level of annual amortisation recorded. The estimation of their 
useful lives reflects the directors’ best estimate of the periods that future economic benefits will be received through the use of 
the assets. In determining whether the deferred development costs are impaired, the management takes into consideration the 
anticipated revenues and estimated future cash flows from the underlying projects, and the progress of these projects. When the 
actual revenues and future cash flows are less than expected, a material loss may arise. Management is confident that the carrying 
amount of the assets will be recovered in full. This situation will be closely monitored, and adjustments will be made in future 
periods, if future market activity indicates that such adjustments are appropriate.

95

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
4.  Key Sources of Accounting Estimates (continued)

Useful Lives and Impairment Assessment of Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and identified impairment losses. As at December 
31, 2014, the Group’s and the Company’s carrying amount of property, plant and equipment are US$425,366,000 (2013: 
US$383,949,000) and US$4,825,000 (2013: US$1,431,000) respectively. The estimation of their useful lives impacts the level 
of annual depreciation expense recorded. The estimated useful life that the Group and the Company place the equipment into 
production reflects the directors’ estimate of the periods that the Group and the Company intend to derive future economic 
benefits from the use of the Group’s and the Company’s property, plant and equipment. Property, plant and equipment are evaluated 
for possible impairment on a specific asset basis or in groups of similar assets, as applicable. This process requires management’s 
estimate of future cash flows generated by each asset or group of assets. For any instance where this evaluation process indicates 
impairment, the appropriate assets’ carrying values are written down to the recoverable amount and the amount of the write-down 
is charged against the results of operations.

Income Taxes
As at December 31, 2014, a deferred tax asset of approximately US$47,119,000 (2013: US$39,747,000) in relation to unused tax 
losses and approximately US$38,241,000 (2013: US$32,860,000) in relation to employee related provisions has been recognised 
in the Group’s consolidated statement of financial position. The realisability of the deferred tax asset mainly depends on whether 
sufficient taxable profits, or taxable temporary differences, will be available in the future. In cases where the actual future taxable 
profits generated are less than expected, a material reversal of the deferred tax assets may arise, which would be recognised in 
profit or loss for the period in which such a reversal takes place. During the year, deferred tax assets of approximately US$789,000 
(2013: US$7,913,000) in relation to unused tax losses were utilised.

Estimated Impairment of Trade and Other Receivables, Bills Receivable and Trade Receivables 
from an Associate
When there is objective evidence of an impairment loss, the Group and the Company take into consideration the estimation of 
future cash flows. The amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and 
the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the 
financial asset’s original effective interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). When the actual 
future cash flows are less than expected, a material impairment loss may arise. As at December 31, 2014, the Group’s and the 
Company’s carrying amount of trade and other receivables, bills receivable and trade receivables/amounts due from associates 
is US$862,077,000 (net of allowance for doubtful debts of US$22,522,000) (2013: US$828,205,000 (net of allowance for 
doubtful debts of US$18,168,000)) and US$11,086,000 (net of allowance for doubtful debts of nil) (2013: US$20,685,000 (net of 
allowance for doubtful debts of nil)).

96

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
5.  Segment Information

Information reported to the executive directors of the Company, being the chief operating decision makers, for the purposes of 
resources allocation and assessment of segment performance focuses on the types of goods sold.

The principal categories of goods supplied are “Power Equipment” and “Floor Care and Appliances”. The Group’s operating 
segments under HKFRS 8 are as follows:

1. 

2. 

Power Equipment – sales of power tools, power tool accessories, outdoor products, and outdoor product accessories for 
consumer, trade, professional and industrial users. The products are available under the MILWAUKEE, EMPIRE, AEG, 
RYOBI and HOMELITE brands plus original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) customers.

Floor Care and Appliances – sales of floor care products and floor care accessories under the HOOVER, DIRT DEVIL, VAX 
and ORECK brands plus OEM customers.

Information regarding the above segments is reported below.

Segment Turnover and Results
The following is an analysis of the Group’s turnover and results by reportable and operating segments for the year under review:

For the year ended December 31, 2014

Segment turnover
  External sales

Inter-segment sales

Total segment turnover

Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates.

Result
  Segment results before finance costs
  Finance costs

  Profit before taxation
  Taxation charge

  Profit for the year

Power
Equipment
US$’000

Floor Care and 
Appliances
US$’000

Eliminations
US$’000

Consolidated
US$’000

3,552,790
—

1,200,170
923

3,552,790

1,201,093

—
(923)

(923)

4,752,960
—

4,752,960

305,094

59,698

—

364,792
(39,633)

325,159
(25,680)

299,479

The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in Note 3. Segment 
profit represents the profit earned by each segment without allocation of finance costs. This is the measure reported to the 
executive directors of the Company for the purpose of resources allocation and performance assessment.

No analysis of the Group’s assets and liabilities by operating segment is disclosed as they are not regularly provided to the chief 
operating decision makers for review.

97

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Segment Information (continued)

Other Segment Information

For the year ended December 31, 2014

Amounts included in the measure of segment profit or loss:

Loss (gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Impairment reversal of property, plant and equipment
Write down of inventories
Impairment loss on trade receivables
Depreciation and amortisation

Segment Turnover and Results

For the year ended December 31, 2013

Segment turnover
  External sales

Inter-segment sales

Total segment turnover

Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates.

Result
  Segment results before finance costs
  Finance costs

  Profit before taxation
  Taxation charge

  Profit for the year

Power
Equipment
US$’000

Floor Care and 
Appliances
US$’000

Consolidated
US$’000

13,100
—
9,455
6,736
105,618

(976)
(4,308)
2,903
6,411
42,834

12,124
(4,308)
12,358
13,147
148,452

Power
Equipment
US$’000

Floor Care and
Appliances
US$’000

Eliminations
US$’000

Consolidated
US$’000

3,143,915
—

1,155,840
2,384

—
(2,384)

4,299,755
—

3,143,915

1,158,224

(2,384)

4,299,755

261,340

51,740

—

313,080
(36,682)

276,398
(29,036)

247,362

98

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
5.  Segment Information (continued)

Other Segment Information

For the year ended December 31, 2013

Amounts included in the measure of segment profit or loss:

Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment
Write down of inventories
Impairment loss on trade receivables
Depreciation and amortisation

Turnover from Major Products
The following is an analysis of the Group’s turnover from its major products:

Power Equipment
Floor Care and Appliances

Total

Power
Equipment
US$’000

Floor Care and
Appliances
US$’000

Consolidated
US$’000

9,281
—
11,572
3,557
94,288

833
19,344
18,960
366
44,163

10,114
19,344
30,532
3,923
138,451

2014
US$’000

3,552,790
1,200,170

2013
US$’000

3,143,915
1,155,840

4,752,960

4,299,755

Geographical Information
The Group’s turnover from external customers by geographical location, determined based on the location of the customer and 
information about its non-current assets by geographical location, determined based on the location of the group entity owning the 
assets are detailed below:

North America
Europe
Other countries

Total

Turnover from external customers

Non-Current Assets*

2014
US$’000

3,393,493
968,544
390,923

2013
US$’000

3,120,251
870,119
309,385

2014
US$’000

840,251
111,294
558,746

2013
US$’000

805,065
93,726
513,450

4,752,960

4,299,755

1,510,291

1,412,241

* 

Non-current assets exclude financial instruments, deferred tax assets and interests in associates.

99

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
5.  Segment Information (continued)

Information about Major Customer
During the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, the Group’s largest customer contributed total turnover of 
US$1,779,833,000 (2013: US$1,622,819,000), of which US$1,717,950,000 (2013: US$1,568,856,000) was under the Power 
Equipment segment and US$61,883,000 (2013: US$53,963,000) was under the Floor Care and Appliances segment. There is no 
other customer contributing more than 10% of total turnover.

6.  Turnover

Turnover represents the fair value of the net amounts received and receivable for goods sold by the Group to outside customers, 
less returns and allowances, and commission and royalty income received during the year and is analysed as follows:

Sale of goods
Commission and royalty income

7.  Other Income

2014
US$’000

4,743,262
9,698

2013
US$’000

4,287,773
11,982

4,752,960

4,299,755

Other income in 2014 mainly comprises of sales of scrap materials, claims and reimbursements from customers and vendors.

Other income in 2013 mainly comprises of the net of gain on a bargain purchase of US$38,319,000, sales of scrap materials, 
claims and reimbursements from customers and vendors, impairment losses on property, plant and equipment and inventories 
and other costs arising from the integration of floor care and appliances manufacturing operations of US$34,659,000 and goodwill 
impairment of US$3,390,000.

8. 

Interest Income
Interest income represents interest earned on bank deposits.

9.  Finance Costs

Interest on:
  Bank borrowings and overdrafts wholly repayable within five years
  Obligations under finance leases
  Fixed interest rate notes

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

31,870
325
7,438

39,633

27,290
355
9,037

36,682

100

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. Taxation Charge

Current tax:
  Hong Kong profits tax
  Underprovision in prior years

  Overseas taxation
  Underprovision in prior years

Deferred tax (Note 43):
  Current year

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

(1,971)
(1,514)

(3,485)

4,204
(36,209)

(32,005)

(909)
(3,403)

(4,312)

(16,057)
(23,512)

(39,569)

9,810

14,845

(25,680)

(29,036)

Hong Kong Profits Tax is calculated at 16.5% of the estimated assessable profit for both years.

Taxation arising in other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.

Underprovision of income tax in prior periods includes provisions for estimated tax exposures in respect of ongoing tax audits. 
Given the tax provided, no provision for additional income tax, if any, arising from the ongoing tax audits has been recognised as 
such amounts cannot be reliably estimated at this stage.

The tax charges for the year are reconciled as follows:

Profit before taxation

Tax at Hong Kong Profits Tax rate
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries
  operating in other jurisdictions
Tax effect of expenses not deductible for tax purposes
Tax effect of income not taxable for tax purposes
Utilisation of deductible temporary differences 
  previously not recognised
Tax effect of tax losses and deductible temporary
  differences not recognised
Underprovision in respect of prior years
Others

Tax charge for the year

Details of deferred tax are set out in Note 43.

2014
US$’000

325,159

2014
%

2013
US$’000

276,398

2013
%

(53,651)

16.5%

(45,606)

16.5%

71,088
(16,509)
21,920

(21.9%)
5.1%
(6.7%)

48,259
(7,114)
13,846

245

(0.1%)

—

(11,019)
(37,723)
(31)

(25,680)

3.4%
11.6%
0.0%

7.9%

(9,099)
(26,915)
(2,407)

(29,036)

(17.5%)
2.6%
(5.0%)

0.0%

3.3%
9.7%
0.9%

10.5%

101

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11. Profit for the Year

Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging (crediting):

Amortisation of intangible assets
Amortisation of lease prepayments
Auditors’ remuneration
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense
Depreciation and amortisation on property, plant and equipment
  Owned assets
  Assets held under finance leases
Fair value gain on interest rate swap
Fair value (gain) loss on foreign currency forward contracts
Fair value (gain) loss on held-for-trading investments
Fair value loss on derivative financial instruments
Impairment loss on available-for-sale investments
Impairment loss on held-for-trading investments
Impairment loss on interest in associates
Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment
Impairment loss on trade receivables
Impairment reversal of property, plant and equipment
Impairment loss on goodwill
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Net exchange loss (gain)
Operating lease expenses recognised in respect of:
  Motor vehicles
  Plant and machinery
  Premises
  Other assets
Unconditional government grants
Write off of intangible assets
Write down of inventories
Staff costs
  Directors’ remuneration

  Fees
  Other emoluments

Other staff costs
Retirement benefits scheme contributions (other than those

included in the Directors’ emoluments)

  Defined contribution plans
  Defined benefit plans (Note 42)

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

66,802
802
3,113
3,079,883

63,415
804
3,251
2,827,445

79,822
1,026
(1,256)
(9,930)
(155)
1,012
—
—
3,000
—
13,147
(4,308)
—
12,124
4,964

16,895
5,153
31,155
2,770
(9)
2,338
12,358

234
30,296

30,530
542,762

73,185
1,047
(1,465)
1,081
4,324
—
723
1,402
—
19,344
3,923
—
3,390
10,114
(14,951)

14,588
6,115
29,704
2,740
(70)
3,557
30,532

234
22,313

22,547
483,940

3,475
3,114

2,506
3,724

579,881

512,717

Staff costs disclosed above do not include an amount of US$97,684,000 (2013: US$87,871,000) relating to research and 
development activities.

102

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12. Director’s Emoluments

The emoluments paid or payable to each of the eleven (2013: eleven) directors were as follows:

For the year ended December 31, 2014

Other emoluments

Basic salaries 
and 
allowances
US$’000

Fees
US$’000

Contributions 
to retirement 
benefits 
schemes
US$’000

Bonus paid
US$’000

Share-based 
payments
US$’000

—
—
—
—
—
39
39
39
39
39
39

234

1,657
1,574
2,916
1,629
337
5
36
18
42
46
22

8,282

2
69
2
2
2
—
—
—
—
—
—

77

4,570
13,334
748
899
668
—
—
—
—
—
—

20,219

371
23
421
421
447
—
7
7
7
7
7

1,718

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill
Mr Joseph Galli Jr
Mr Kin Wah Chan
Mr Chi Chung Chan
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP
Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Total

For the year ended December 31, 2013

Other emoluments

Basic salaries 
and 
allowances
US$’000

Fees
US$’000

Contributions 
to retirement 
benefits 
schemes
US$’000

Bonus paid
US$’000

Share-based 
payments
US$’000

—
—
—
—
—
39
39
39
39
39
39

234

1,602
1,505
688
686
327
8
39
21
45
48
24

4,993

2
2
2
2
2
—
—
—
—
—
—

10

3,849
11,344
666
707
379
—
—
—
—
—
—

16,945

68
—
—
—
120
—
36
36
33
36
36

365

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill
Mr Joseph Galli Jr
Mr Kin Wah Chan
Mr Chi Chung Chan
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP
Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Total

The bonuses paid were based on performance of the Group.

Total
US$’000

6,600
15,000
4,087
2,951
1,454
44
82
64
88
92
68

30,530

Total
US$’000

5,521
12,851
1,356
1,395
828
47
114
96
117
123
99

22,547

103

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
12. Director’s Emoluments (continued)

The above emoluments include the value of share options granted and shares awarded to certain directors under the Company’s 
share option schemes and share award scheme, respectively, as estimated at the date of grant and award. Details of these benefits 
in kind are disclosed under the sections “Share Options” and “Share Award Scheme” in Notes 48 and 49 respectively.

13. Employees’ Emoluments

Of the five individuals with the highest emoluments in the Group, four (2013: four) were directors of the Company whose 
emoluments are included in Note 12 above. The emoluments of the remaining one (2013: one) individual for the year ended 
December 31, 2014 was as follows:

Basic salaries and allowances
Contributions to retirement benefits schemes
Bonus paid
Other benefit
Share-based payments

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

590
72
3,180
27
—

3,869

590
9
885
28
—

1,512

The emoluments of this one (2013: one) highest paid individual for the year ended December 31, 2014 was within the following 
bands:

US$

1,000,001 to 1,500,000
1,500,001 to 2,000,000
3,500,001 to 4,000,000

No. of persons

2014

2013

—
—
1

—
1
—

During each of the two years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, no emoluments have been paid by the Group to the five 
highest paid individuals, including directors, as an inducement to join or upon joining the Group or as compensation for loss of 
office. No director has waived any emoluments during those years.

104

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14. Dividends

Dividends recognised as distributions during the year:
Final dividend paid:
  2013: HK13.75 cents (approximately US1.77 cents)

(2012: HK10.75 cents (approximately US1.38 cents)) per share

32,400

25,330

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

Interim dividend paid:
  2014: HK12.50 cents (approximately US1.61 cents)

(2013: HK10.00 cents (approximately US1.29 cents)) per share

29,458

61,858

23,554

48,884

The final dividend of HK19.00 cents (approximately US2.45 cents) per share with a total of approximately US$44,782,000 in 
respect of the year ended December 31, 2014 (2013: final dividend of HK13.75 cents (approximately US1.77 cents) per share in 
respect of the year ended December 31, 2013) has been proposed by the directors and is subject to approval by the shareholders 
in the Annual General Meeting.

15. Earnings per Share

The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to Owners of the Company is based on the following data:

Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share:
  Profit for the year attributable to Owners of the Company

Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose
  of basic earnings per share
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
  Share options
  Share award

Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose
  of diluted earnings per share

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

300,330

250,284

1,830,438,103

1,829,954,083

7,778,724
28,773

7,168,529
—

1,838,245,600

1,837,122,612

105

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Office
equipment,
furniture and
fixtures
US$’000

Leasehold
improvements
US$’000

Plant and
machinery
US$’000

Motor
vehicles
US$’000

Moulds and
 tooling
US$’000

Vessels
US$’000

Construction
in progress
US$’000

Total
US$’000

16. Property, Plant and Equipment

Freehold
land and
buildings
outside
Hong Kong
(Note)
US$’000

147,445
1,142
2,060
—
(12,610)
(15,362)
2,061

The Group
Cost
At January 1, 2013
Currency realignment
Additions
Acquisition of businesses
Disposals
Impairment
Reclassification

64,290
888
1,166
—
(6,575)
—
441

154,755
821
7,635
95
(11,711)
(4,056)
5,994

207,984
1,905
9,699
760
(19,730)
(23,005)
9,963

At December 31, 2013

124,736

60,210

153,533

187,576

Currency realignment
Additions
Acquisition of businesses
Disposals
Reversal of impairment
Reclassification

(2,694)
2,576
—
(12,183)
—
1,270

(1,479)
2,507
103
(801)
—
1,335

(5,581)
23,635
206
(7,753)
—
6,387

(5,403)
32,450
2,974
(14,462)
1,820
27,108

4,968
(75)
493
—
(484)
(161)
464

5,205

(226)
751
64
(349)
—
245

230,456
1,060
7,879
—
(61,564)
(20,585)
29,884

187,130

(1,624)
14,329
219
(30,870)
8,784
42,779

2,298
—
—
—
—
—
—

2,298

—
—
—
—
—
—

58,228
494
75,683
—
(2,985)
—
(48,807)

870,424
6,235
104,615
855
(115,659)
(63,169)
—

82,613

803,301

(1,760)
78,160
—
(3,430)
—
(79,124)

(18,767)
154,408
3,566
(69,848)
10,604
—

At December 31, 2014

113,705

61,875

170,427

232,063

5,690

220,747

2,298

76,459

883,264

Depreciation and impairment
At January 1, 2013
Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on disposals
Impairment

At December 31, 2013

Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on disposals
Reversal of impairment

43,246
115
6,699
(6,904)
(6,020)

37,136

(123)
5,508
(653)
—

22,991
187
4,316
(5,770)
—

122,950
366
12,450
(10,746)
(3,541)

134,437
719
15,425
(18,787)
(17,968)

21,724

121,479

113,826

(601)
4,070
(331)
—

(3,707)
14,546
(7,081)
—

(2,197)
18,074
(11,741)
1,034

3,378
(16)
517
(344)
(137)

3,398

(111)
630
(180)
—

158,082
463
34,365
(56,608)
(16,159)

120,143

(898)
37,560
(20,975)
5,262

1,186
—
460
—
—

1,646

—
460
—
—

At December 31, 2014

41,868

24,862

125,237

118,996

3,737

141,092

2,106

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—

—

486,270
1,834
74,232
(99,159)
(43,825)

419,352

(7,637)
80,848
(40,961)
6,296

457,898

Carrying amounts
At December 31, 2014

71,837

37,013

45,190

113,067

At December 31, 2013

87,600

38,486

32,054

73,750

1,953

1,807

79,655

66,987

192

652

76,459

425,366

82,613

383,949

Note:  Buildings with a carrying amount of US$21,606,000 (2013: US$23,474,000) are erected on leasehold land that is presented as lease prepayments on the 

consolidated statement of financial position.

106

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. Property, Plant and Equipment (continued)

Office
equipment,
furniture
and fixtures
US$’000

Leasehold
improvements
US$’000

Plant and
machinery
US$’000

Motor
vehicles
US$’000

Moulds and
 tooling
US$’000

Total
US$’000

2,754
—
(2,682)
—

72

620
—

692

2,608
46
(2,614)
—

40

55
—

95

597

32

12,306
242
(5,438)
—

7,110

3,850
(270)

10,690

10,518
735
(5,412)
—

5,841

1,077
(231)

6,687

4,003

1,269

3,190
—
(3,190)
—

—

—
—

—

3,181
9
(3,190)
—

—

—
—

—

—

—

746
—
—
—

746

155
(26)

875

567
49
—
—

616

60
(26)

650

225

130

4,843
—
(3,681)
(1,162)

—

—
—

—

4,843
—
(3,681)
(1,162)

—

—
—

—

—

—

23,839
242
(14,991)
(1,162)

7,928

4,625
(296)

12,257

21,717
839
(14,897)
(1,162)

6,497

1,192
(257)

7,432

4,825

1,431

The Company
Cost
At January 1, 2013
Additions
Disposals
Transfer to subsidiaries

At December 31, 2013

Additions
Disposals

At December 31, 2014

Depreciation
At January 1, 2013
Provided for the year
Eliminated on disposals
Transfer to subsidiaries

At December 31, 2013

Provided for the year
Eliminated on disposals

At December 31, 2014

Carrying amounts
At December 31, 2014

At December 31, 2013

The above property, plant and equipment, other than construction in progress, are depreciated on a straight-line basis, at the 
following rates per annum:

Freehold land
Buildings
Leasehold improvements
Office equipment, furniture and fixtures
Plant and machinery
Motor vehicles
Moulds and tooling
Vessels

Nil
21/5% - 62/3%
21/2% - 331/3%
10% - 331/3%
9% - 331/3%
10% - 331/3%
18% - 331/3%
20%

107

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. Property, Plant and Equipment (continued)

The net book values of properties shown above comprise:

Land and buildings are situated outside
  Hong Kong and are analysed as follows:
  Freehold
  Medium-term lease

The Group

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

50,231
21,606

71,837

64,126
23,474

87,600

The net book values of the Group’s property, plant and equipment include amounts of approximately US$12,711,000 (2013: 
US$3,416,000) in respect of assets held under finance leases.

The gross carrying amount of the Group’s and the Company’s property, plant and equipment include amounts of approximately 
US$224,034,000 and US$5,708,000 (2013: US$217,407,000 and US$4,752,000) respectively in respect of fully depreciated 
property, plant and equipment that are still in use.

17. Lease Prepayments

Cost
At January 1, 2013
Currency realignment

At December 31, 2013
Currency realignment

At December 31, 2014

Amortisation
At January 1, 2013
Currency realignment
Provided for the year

At December 31, 2013

Currency realignment
Provided for the year

At December 31, 2014

Carrying amounts
At December 31, 2014

At December 31, 2013

All lease prepayments are medium-term leases outside Hong Kong.

108

The Group
US$’000

39,678
1,149

40,827
(965)

39,862

3,545
114
804

4,463

(109)
802

5,156

34,706

36,364

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. Goodwill

At January 1, 2013
Currency realignment
Arising on acquisition of a business
Goodwill impairment

At December 31, 2013
Currency realignment
Arising on acquisition of businesses (Note 44)

At December 31, 2014

Particulars regarding impairment testing of goodwill are disclosed in Note 20.

19. Intangible Assets

Deferred
development
costs
US$’000

Patents
US$’000

Trademarks
US$’000

Manufacturing
know-how
US$’000

Retailer
and service
relationships
US$’000

Non
compete
agreement
US$’000

The Group
Cost
At January 1, 2013
Currency realignment
Additions
Acquisition of businesses
Written off in the year

381,207
67
83,691
—
(12,120)

47,463
—
5,418
1,857
(28)

192,364
—
—
36,379
—

At December 31, 2013

452,845

54,710

228,743

Currency realignment
Additions
Acquisition of businesses
Written off in the year

(242)
90,442
462
(8,055)

—
2,176
2,706
(150)

—
3,046
3,000
(5)

453
—
—
—
—

453

—
—
—
—

6,500
—
—
—
—

6,500

—
—
4,000
—

10,634
—
—
—
—

10,634

—
—
—
—

The Group
US$’000

531,160
857
3,861
(3,390)

532,488
(2,363)
24,012

554,137

Total
US$’000

638,621
67
89,109
38,236
(12,148)

753,885

(242)
95,664
10,168
(8,210)

At December 31, 2014

535,452

59,442

234,784

453

10,500

10,634

851,265

Amortisation
At January 1, 2013
Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on write off

At December 31, 2013

Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on write off

198,636
67
54,728
(8,563)

244,868

(192)
58,207
(5,717)

28,490
—
5,111
(28)

33,573

—
4,867
(150)

9,109
—
1,124
—

10,233

—
1,121
(5)

At December 31, 2014

297,166

38,290

11,349

Carrying amounts
At December 31, 2014

238,286

21,152

223,435

At December 31, 2013

207,977

21,137

218,510

453
—
—
—

453

—
—
—

453

—

—

1,625
—
325
—

1,950

—
480
—

1,241
—
2,127
—

3,368

—
2,127
—

239,554
67
63,415
(8,591)

294,445

(192)
66,802
(5,872)

2,430

5,495

355,183

8,070

4,550

5,139

496,082

7,266

459,440

109

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19. Intangible Assets (continued)

The retailer and service relationships were acquired through business combinations which related to the relationships with retailers 
and service centres.

Deferred development costs are internally generated.

Included in trademarks of the Group, US$219,934,000 (2013: US$213,934,000) are trademarks with indefinite useful lives as 
considered by the management of the Group as having an indefinite useful life because they are expected to contribute indefinitely 
to the Group’s net cash inflows. The trademarks will not be amortised until their useful lives are determined to be finite. Instead 
they will be tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that they may be impaired. Particulars of the 
impairment testing are disclosed in Note 20.

The above intangible assets, other than trademarks with indefinite useful lives, are amortised on a straight-line basis, at the 
following rates per annum:

Deferred development costs
Patents
Trademarks with finite useful lives
Retailer and service relationships
Non compete agreement

20% - 331/3%
10% - 25%
62/3% - 10%
5% - 62/3%
20%

20. Impairment Testing on Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Useful Lives

As explained in Note 5, the Group uses the types of goods sold for operating segment information. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, goodwill and trademarks with indefinite useful lives set out in Notes 18 and 19, the majority of the amounts have been 
allocated to five major individual cash generating units (CGUs), including four units in the Power Equipment segment and one unit 
in the Floor Care and Appliances segment. The carrying amounts of goodwill and trademarks as at December 31, 2014 allocated 
to these units are as follows:

Power Equipment – MET
Power Equipment – HCP
Power Equipment – Drebo
Power Equipment – Baja
Floor Care and Appliances – RAM/Hoover/VAX
Others

Goodwill

Trademarks

2014
US$’000

416,617
7,492
23,120
9,017
75,748
22,143

554,137

2013
US$’000

402,424
7,492
25,483
9,017
75,748
12,324

532,488

2014
US$’000

118,907
30,648
—
3,200
67,179
—

219,934

2013
US$’000

115,907
30,648
—
3,200
64,179
—

213,934

During the year ended December 31, 2013, management of the Group determined to impair goodwill which originally generated 
from a CGU under “Others” amounting to US$3,390,000. No impairment of goodwill has been recognised for the year ended 
December 31, 2014.

110

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
20. Impairment Testing on Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Useful Lives (continued)
The basis of the recoverable amounts of the above CGUs and their major underlying assumptions are summarised below:

Power Equipment - MET (“MET”)
The recoverable amount of MET’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That 
calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period and a 
discount rate of 11.5% (2013: 11.5%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for MET are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including 
sales, gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimations are based on MET’s 
past performance, management’s expectations of the market development, the success in new products launched, the success 
in reducing the working capital requirements and the success of the cost cutting strategy implemented by the Group. Cash flow 
projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated using a steady 3.0% (2013: 3.0%) growth rate. Management believes 
that any reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of MET’s goodwill and 
intangibles to exceed the recoverable amounts.

Power Equipment – HCP (“HCP”)
The recoverable amount of HCP’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That 
calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a 
discount rate of 12.0% (2013: 12.0%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for HCP are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including 
sales, gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimations are based on 
HCP’s past performance, management’s expectations of the market development, the success in new products launched and 
the success of the cost cutting strategy implemented. Cash flow projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated without 
considering any growth rate. Management believes that any reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not 
cause the carrying amount of HCP’s goodwill and intangibles to exceed the aggregate recoverable amounts.

Power Equipment – Drebo (“Drebo”)
The recoverable amount of Drebo’s goodwill has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation uses cash 
flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a discount rate of 11.0% 
(2013: 11.0%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for Drebo are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including 
sales, gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimations are based on Drebo’s 
past performance, management’s expectations of the market development, the success in new products launched and the cost 
cutting strategies implemented. Cash flow projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated without considering any growth 
rate. Management believes that any reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount 
of Drebo’s goodwill to exceed the recoverable amount.

Power Equipment – Baja (“Baja”)
The recoverable amount of Baja’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That 
calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a 
discount rate of 13.0% (2013: 13.0%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for Baja are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including 
sales, gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimations are based on 
Baja’s past performance, management’s expectations of the market development and the success of the cost cutting strategy 
implemented. Cash flow projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated using a steady 2.0% (2013: 2.0%) growth rate. 
Management believes that any reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of 
Baja’s goodwill and intangibles to exceed the aggregate recoverable amounts.

111

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
20. Impairment Testing on Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Useful Lives (continued)

Floor Care and Appliances – RAM/Hoover/VAX (“RAM/Hoover/VAX”)
The recoverable amount of RAM/Hoover/VAX’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. 
That calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a 
discount rate of 15.0% (2013: 15.0%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for RAM/Hoover/VAX are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows 
including sales, gross margin, operating expenses, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. The assumptions 
and estimations are based on RAM/Hoover/VAX’s past performance, management’s expectations of the market development, 
the success in reducing the working capital requirements and the success of the cost cutting strategies implemented. Cash flow 
projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated using a steady 2.0% (2013: 2.0%) growth rate. Management believes that 
any reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of RAM/Hoover/VAX’s goodwill 
and intangibles to exceed the aggregate recoverable amounts.

21. Investments in Subsidiaries/Loans to Subsidiaries

Particulars of the principal subsidiaries of the Company as at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 are set out in Note 52.

Loans to subsidiaries are unsecured, bear fixed interest at rates ranging from 0.250% to 11.750% per annum (2013: 5.275% to 
10.150%) and are fully repayable by 2024.

22. Interests in Associates

Unlisted shares, at cost less impairment

loss recognised
Share of net assets
Amounts due from associates

The Group

The Company

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

—
—
6,515

6,515

—
—
15,766

15,766

—
—
5,225

5,225

—
—
14,478

14,478

Particulars of the associates as at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 are set out in Note 53.

The amounts due from associates are unsecured, non-interest bearing and are repayable on demand.

At the end of the reporting period, amongst the associates, the Group held 40.8% of the shares of Gimelli International (Holdings) 
Limited and its subsidiaries (together the “Gimelli Group companies”). The Group has discontinued recognising its share of 
the losses of the Gimelli Group companies. The unrecognised share of gain (loss) for the year and cumulatively, extracted from 
the relevant management accounts of the associates, are US$302,000 (2013: US$1,025,000) and (US$5,078,000) (2013: 
(US$5,380,000)) respectively.

112

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
23. Available-for-sale Investments

The Group

The Company

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

Unlisted equity securities and club membership
  debentures, at cost less impairment

loss recognised

509

520

189

196

As at December 31, 2014, all available-for-sale investments represent investments in unlisted equity securities and club 
membership debentures. They are measured at cost less impairment at the reporting date because the range of reasonable fair 
value estimates is so significant that the directors of the Company are of the opinion that their fair values cannot be measured 
reliably.

24. Inventories

Raw materials
Work in progress
Finished goods

25. Trade and other Receivables

Trade receivables
Less: Allowances for doubtful debts

Other receivables

The Group

2014
US$’000

112,023
11,478
932,828

1,056,329

2013
US$’000

95,186
11,505
777,539

884,230

The Group

The Company

2014
US$’000

795,492
(22,522)

772,970
46,981

819,951

2013
US$’000

770,033
(18,168)

751,865
31,930

783,795

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

—
—

—
5,861

5,861

—
—

—
6,207

6,207

113

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
25. Trade and other Receivables (continued)

The aged analysis of trade receivables, net of allowances for doubtful debts, presented on the basis of the revenue recognition 
date, which is usually the invoice date, at the end of the reporting period is as follows:

0 to 60 days
61 to 120 days
121 days or above

Total trade receivables

The Group

2014
US$’000

651,192
84,514
37,264

772,970

2013
US$’000

625,004
95,120
31,741

751,865

Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses an internal credit scoring system to assess the potential customer’s credit 
quality and defines credit limits by customer. Limits and scoring attributed to customers are reviewed regularly. Trade receivables 
that are neither past due nor impaired have the best credit scoring attributable under the internal credit scoring system used by 
the Group.

Included in the Group’s trade receivable balance are debtors with a carrying amount of US$115,959,000 (2013: US$110,082,000) 
which are past due at the reporting date for which the Group has not provided for impairment loss. The Group does not hold any 
collateral over these balances. The average age of these receivables is 74 days (2013: 96 days).

The Group has a policy of allowing credit periods ranging mainly from 30 days to 120 days. Trade receivables that were past due 
but not provided for impairment loss are related to a number of independent customers that have a good track record with the 
Group. The management believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of these balances as there has not been a 
significant change in credit quality of the relevant customers and the balances are still considered fully recoverable.

Ageing of Trade Receivables which are past due but not Impaired

The Group

2014
US$’000

98,008
9,568
1,497
3,621
3,265

2013
US$’000

91,864
4,326
4,433
3,557
5,902

115,959

110,082

1 - 60 days
61 - 120 days
121 - 365 days
1 - 2 years
Over 2 years

Total

114

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25. Trade and other Receivables (continued)

Movement in the Allowance for Doubtful Debts

Balance at beginning of the year
Currency realignment
Impairment losses recognised on receivables
Acquisition of businesses
Amounts written off as uncollectible
Amounts recovered during the year

Balance at end of the year

The Group

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

18,168
(1,171)
13,147
389
(3,154)
(4,857)

22,522

13,987
271
3,923
2,696
(1,848)
(861)

18,168

Included in the allowance for doubtful debts are individually impaired trade receivables amounting to US$22,522,000 (2013: 
US$18,168,000) which have the worst credit scoring attributable under the internal credit scoring system used by the Group. The 
Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.

Ageing of Impaired Trade Receivables (by Invoice Date)

0 - 120 days
121 - 365 days
1 - 2 years
Over 2 years

Total

2014
US$’000

4,024
3,284
11,379
3,835

22,522

2013
US$’000

2,592
8,419
5,778
1,379

18,168

Under certain receivables purchase agreements, a percentage in various pools of trade receivables were factored to banks 
(the “Factored Trade Receivables”). As the Group still retained the risks associated in respect of default payments, the Group 
continued to recognise the Factored Trade Receivables in the consolidated statement of financial position. At the end of the 
reporting period, proceeds from the Factored Trade Receivables of approximately US$75,000,000 (2013: US$74,952,000) were 
recognised as liabilities and included in “Unsecured borrowings – due within one year” in the consolidated statement of financial 
position.

26. Bills Receivable

All the Group’s bills receivable at December 31, 2014 and 2013 are due within 120 days.

27. Amounts Due from/(to) Subsidiaries

The amounts are unsecured, interest-free and payable on demand.

115

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28. Trade Receivables from an Associate

The trade receivables from an associate were aged and are due within 120 days.

29. Derivative Financial Instruments

Assets
Acquisition right of certain property,
  plant and equipment
Foreign currency forward contracts
  – under hedge accounting
Foreign currency forward contracts
  – not under hedge accounting

Liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts
  – under hedge accounting
Foreign currency forward contracts
  – not under hedge accounting
Interest rate swap

The Group

The Company

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

11,635

12,647

—

39,486

5,034

27,897

180

51,301

9,006

546
1,947

39

17,720

9,603

277
3,202

11,499

13,082

—

27,897

6,811

—
1,947

8,758

—

653

—

653

4,376

—
3,202

7,578

Acquisition Right of Certain Property, Plant and Equipment
As at December 31, 2014, the Group owned a right to acquire certain property, plant and equipment which was acquired as 
part of the acquisition of the Oreck business from the Oreck Bankruptcy Estate. The right is expected to be exercised in 2032. 
The fair value of the property, plant and equipment was US$11,635,000 valued on September 30, 2014 by American Appraisal 
Associates, Inc., an independent valuer not related to the Group.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts
The fair values of foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived 
from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.

116

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
29. Derivative Financial Instruments (continued)

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts under Hedge Accounting
At the end of the reporting period, the Group had the following foreign currency forward contracts designated as highly effective 
hedging instruments in order to manage the Group’s foreign currency exposure in relation to future foreign currency sales. The 
terms of the foreign exchange contracts have been negotiated to match the terms of the respective designated hedged items.

Major terms of the foreign currency forward contracts under hedge accounting are as follows:

The Group

2014

Notional amounts in millions

Maturity

Exchange rates

Sell US$ 493.2M, Buy RMB
Buy US$ 106M, Sell GBP
Buy US$ 57M, Sell EUR
Sell EUR 110M, Buy US$
Buy US$ 139.6M, Sell AUD

January 7, 2015 to December 30, 2015
January 5, 2015 to November 9, 2015
January 1, 2015 October 26, 2015
January 30, 2015 to October 30, 2015
January 30, 2015 to September 30, 2015

RMB 6.0040 to 6.3971 : US$ 1
GBP 0.5883 to 0.6382 : US$ 1
US$ 1.2801 to 1.3929 : EUR 1
US$ 1.2383 to 1.3852 : EUR 1
AUD 0.8436 to 0.9235 : US$ 1

The Company

2014

Notional amounts in millions

Maturity

Exchange rates

Sell EUR 110M, Buy US$
Buy US$ 139.6M, Sell AUD
Sell US$ 165M, Buy RMB

January 30, 2015 to October 30, 2015
January 30, 2015 to September 30, 2015
January 7, 2015 to December 30, 2015

US$ 1.2383 to 1.3852 : EUR 1
AUD 0.8436 to 0.9235 : US$ 1
RMB 6.0040 to 6.0585 : US$ 1

The Group

2013

Notional amounts in millions

Maturity

Exchange rates

Sell EUR 108M, Buy US$
Buy US$ 30M, Sell AUD
Sell US$ 280M, Buy RMB
Buy US$ 91M, Sell GBP
Sell US$ 48.2M, Buy EUR

The Company

2013

January 30, 2014 to December 31, 2014
February 28, 2014 to June 30, 2014
January 19, 2014 to December 31, 2014
January 6, 2014 to September 15, 2014
January 15, 2014 to October 3, 2014

US$ 1.3211 to 1.3682 : EUR 1
AUD 0.9012 to 0.9088 : US$ 1
RMB 6.1162 to 6.2285 : US$ 1
GBP 0.6085 to 0.6489 : US$ 1
US$ 1.3020 to 1.3794 : EUR 1

Notional amounts in millions

Maturity

Exchange rates

Sell EUR 108M, Buy US$
Buy US$ 30M, Sell AUD

January 30, 2014 to December 31, 2014
February 28, 2014 to June 30, 2014

US$ 1.3211 to 1.3682 : EUR 1
AUD 0.9012 to 0.9088 : US$ 1

During the year, US$1,153,000 (2013: US$1,254,000) is reclassified from equity to profit and loss (included in administrative 
expenses).

117

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29. Derivative Financial Instruments (continued)

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts not under Hedge Accounting
Major terms of the foreign currency forward contracts not under hedge accounting are as follows:

The Group

2014

Notional amounts in millions

Maturity

Exchange rates

Sell CHF 1.2M, Buy EUR
Sell GBP 8.25M, Buy EUR
Sell US$ 3.2M, Buy EUR
Buy US$ 9.3M, Sell NZD
Buy AUD 2.4M, Sell NZD
Sell US$ 50M, Buy RMB

2013

January 15, 2015 to June 19, 2015
January 15, 2015 to September 17, 2015
January 20, 2015 to June 15, 2015
January 21, 2015 to July 22, 2015
January 7, 2015 to October 30, 2015
January 22, 2015 to December 30, 2015

CHF 1.2066 to 1.2119 : EUR 1
GBP 0.7863 to 0.8079 : EUR 1
US$ 1.2615 to 1.2880 : EUR 1
US$ 0.7783 to 0.8509 : NZD 1
NZD 1.0948 to 1.1135 : AUD 1
RMB 6.1715 to 6.3971 : US$ 1

Notional amounts in millions

Maturity

Exchange rates

Buy US$ 12.3M, Sell NZD
Sell CHF 0.6M, Buy EUR
Sell SEK 30M, Buy EUR
Buy US$ 6M, Sell GBP

January 20, 2014 to December 22, 2014
January 23, 2014 to June 20, 2014
January 23, 2014 to June 20, 2014
January 15, 2014 to December 2, 2014

US$ 0.800 : NZD 1
CHF 1.2374 to 1.2386 : EUR 1
SEK 8.7453 to 8.7820 : EUR 1
GBP 0.6144 to 0.6438 : US$ 1

Interest Rate Swap (not under Hedge Accounting)
The fair value of the interest rate swap of the Group and the Company is measured at the present value of future cash flows 
estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.

Major terms of the interest rate swap are as follows:

The Group and the Company

2014

Notional amount

Maturity

Receive floating

Pay fixed

US$ 50,000,000

December 31, 2013 to May 4, 2016

LIBOR

1.2% - 3.1%

2013

Notional amount

US$ 50,000,000

Maturity

Receive floating

December 31, 2013 to May 4, 2016

LIBOR

Pay fixed

1.2% - 3.1%

118

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30. Held-for-Trading Investments

The Group’s and the Company’s held-for-trading investments at December 31, 2014 and 2013 are carried at fair value using the 
market bid prices on the reporting date.

Held-for-trading investments include:

Equity securities:
– Unlisted investment funds

The Group

The Company

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

1,155

1,155

1,000

1,000

1,155

1,155

1,000

1,000

31. Bank Balances, Deposits and Cash/Bank Overdrafts

Bank balances carry interest at market rates which range from 0.03% to 0.05% (2013: 0.05% to 0.17%) per annum. Bank 
overdrafts carry interest at market rates which range from 3.25% to 5.00% (2013: 3.25% to 5.00%) per annum.

32. Trade and other Payables

The aged analysis of trade payables presented based on the invoice date at the end of the reporting period is as follows:

0 to 60 days
61 to 120 days
121 days or above

Total trade payables
Other payables

The Group

The Company

2014
US$’000

541,681
149,729
5,076

696,486
439,044

2013
US$’000

467,635
148,839
29,502

645,976
393,947

1,135,530

1,039,923

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

—
—
5

5
33,872

33,877

—
—
5

5
26,398

26,403

The credit period on the purchase of goods ranges from 30 days to 120 days (2013: 30 days to 120 days). The Group has 
financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are settled within the credit time frame.

33. Bills Payable

All the Group’s bills payable at December 31, 2014 and 2013 are due within 120 days.

119

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
34. Warranty Provision

At January 1 ,2013
Currency realignment
Additional provision in the year
Acquisition of businesses
Utilisation of provision

At December 31, 2013
Currency realignment
Additional provision in the year
Acquisition of businesses
Utilisation of provision

At December 31, 2014

The Group
US$’000

42,395
94
91,118
4,231
(85,210)

52,628
(2,371)
134,417
300
(119,155)

65,819

The warranty provision represents management’s best estimate of the Group’s outstanding liabilities on products sold, based on 
prior experience and industry averages for defective products. It is expected that the majority of this expenditure will be incurred in 
the next financial year.

35. Obligations under Finance Leases

It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its land and buildings, plant and machinery, fixtures and equipment and motor vehicles 
under finance leases, with lease terms ranging from 3 years to 20 years. Interest rates underlying all obligations under finance 
leases are fixed at the respective contract dates ranging from 6.6% to 19.42% (December 31, 2013: 7.5% to 22.4%) per annum. 
No arrangements have been entered into that include contingent rental payments.

The maturity of obligations under finance leases is as follows:

Amounts payable under finance leases:
  Within one year

In more than one year but not more than two years
In more than two years but not more than three years
In more than three years but not more than four years
In more than four years but not more than five years

  More than five years

Less: future finance charges

Present value of lease obligations

Less: Amount due within one year shown

  under current liabilities

Amount due after one year

The Group

Minimum lease payments

Present value of
minimum lease payments

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

3,071
2,653
2,130
2,130
2,130
4,310

16,424
(3,012)

13,412

1,245
1,330
785
298
298
1,099

5,055
(905)

4,150

2,277
2,009
1,596
1,699
1,810
4,021

13,412
—

13,412

(2,277)

11,135

977
1,137
663
202
218
953

4,150
—

4,150

(977)

3,173

The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by charges over the leased assets.

120

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
36. Discounted Bills with Recourse

Bills discounted with banks at an effective interest rate of 1.43% per annum (2013: 1.53% per annum) have maturity profiles of 
less than 120 days.

37. Capital Risk Management

The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the 
return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The Group’s overall strategy remains unchanged 
from prior years.

The capital structure of the Group consists of debt (which includes borrowings, discounted bills with recourse and obligations 
under finance leases), net of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to owners of the Company, comprising issued 
share capital, reserves and retained profits.

Gearing Ratio
The Group’s management reviews the capital structure on a semi-annual basis. As part of this review, the management considers 
the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital. The Group has a target gearing ratio of not exceeding 35% 
determined as the proportion of net debt to equity. The Group will continue to execute very disciplined control and management of 
its working capital and generate free cash inflows through the growth of the business.

The gearing ratio at the year end was as follows:

Debt (i)
Bank balances, deposits and cash

Net debt
Equity (ii)
Net debt to equity ratio

2014
US$’000

887,947
(690,395)

197,552
1,967,153
10.04%

2013
US$’000

883,157
(698,147)

185,010
1,740,713
10.63%

(i) 

Debt comprises obligations under finance leases, discounted bills with recourse, unsecured borrowings and bank overdrafts but excludes bank advances from 

factored trade receivables as detailed in Notes 25, 31, 35, 36 and 39 respectively.

(ii) 

Equity includes all capital and reserves attributable to the owners of the Company.

In addition, based on management recommendations, the Group will balance its overall capital structure through the payment of 
dividends, new share issues and share buy-backs as well as the issue of new debt or the redemption of existing debt.

121

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38. Financial Instruments

38.1 Categories of Financial Instruments

The Group
Financial assets
Fair value through profit or loss
  Held-for-trading investments

Derivative financial instruments
  Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment
Derivative financial instruments – under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts
Derivative financial instruments – not under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts

Available-for-sale investments

Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents)
  Trade and other receivables
  Bills receivable
  Trade receivables from an associate
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments – under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts
Derivative financial instruments – not under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts

Interest rate swap

Other financial liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Discounted bills with recourse
  Unsecured borrowings
  Bank overdrafts

122

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

1,155

1,000

11,635

12,647

39,486

5,034

180

51,301

509

819,951
31,600
4,011
690,395

39

17,720

520

783,795
26,054
2,590
698,147

1,545,957

1,510,586

9,006

546
1,947

9,603

277
3,202

11,499

13,082

1,135,530
46,845
72,652
874,264
2,619

1,039,923
40,613
116,704
829,368
7,887

2,131,910

2,034,495

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38. Financial Instruments (continued)

38.1 Categories of Financial Instruments (continued)

The Company
Financial assets
Fair value through profit or loss
  Held-for-trading investments

Derivative financial instruments – under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts

Available-for-sale investments

Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents)
  Other receivables
  Bank balances, deposits and cash
  Loans to/Amounts due from subsidiaries

Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments – under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts
Derivative financial instruments – not under hedge accounting

Interest rate swap

Other financial liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Amounts due to subsidiaries
  Unsecured borrowings

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

1,155

1,000

27,897

189

653

196

5,861
195,383
2,221,776

6,207
52,462
1,801,612

2,423,020

1,860,281

6,811

1,947

8,758

33,877
494,702
701,468

4,376

3,202

7,578

26,403
579,524
650,495

1,230,047

1,256,422

123

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38. Financial Instruments (continued)

38.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies

The Group’s corporate treasury function provides risk management advice to the business units, co-ordinates access to 
domestic and international financial markets, monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the 
Group through internal risk reports which analyse exposures by degree and magnitude of risks. These financial risks include 
market risk (including currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk.

The Group seeks to minimise the effects of these risks by using derivative financial instruments or natural hedges to mitigate 
these risk exposures. The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the board of directors, 
which provide written principles on foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, the use of financial derivatives 
and non-derivative financial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity. Compliance with policies is reviewed by 
the internal auditors on a continuous basis. The Group does not enter into or trade derivative financial instruments for 
speculative purposes.

38.2.1  Foreign Currency Risk Management

Subsidiaries of the Group have foreign currency sales and purchases, which expose the Group to foreign currency risk. 
Approximately 24.4% (2013: 24.6%) of the Group’s sales are denominated in currencies other than the functional 
currency of the group entity making the sale, whilst almost 48.2% (2013: 44.1%) of purchases are denominated in the 
group entity’s respective functional currency.

The carrying amounts of certain significant foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at 
the reporting date are as follows:

The Group
Foreign Currency
EURO

The Company
Foreign Currency
EURO

Liabilities

Assets

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

45,752

37,671

144,803

194,941

Liabilities

Assets

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

239

23,395

307,961

365,022

Note:  For group entities with their functional currency as the United States dollar, monetary assets and monetary liabilities denominated in Hong Kong 

dollars have no material foreign currency risk exposure as the Hong Kong dollar is pegged with the United States dollar.

The Group requires its group entities to use foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the currency exposure. 
The foreign exchange forward contracts must be in the same currency as the hedged item. On this basis, the Group 
has entered into forward contracts in relation to the foreign currency denominated monetary liabilities amounting to 
US$133,672,000 (2013: US$148,845,000). It is the Group’s policy to negotiate the terms of the hedge derivatives to 
match the terms of the hedged item to maximise hedge effectiveness (see Note 29 for details).

124

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
38. Financial Instruments (continued)

38.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

38.2.1  Foreign Currency Risk Management (continued)

Sensitivity Analysis
The Group and the Company are mainly exposed to the effects of rate fluctuations in the EURO to US$.

The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 5% increase and decrease in the United States dollar against 
the EURO without considering the foreign currency forward contracts entered at end of the reporting period. 5% is 
the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents 
management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in the EURO:US$ foreign exchange rate. The sensitivity 
analysis includes outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and excludes the effect of any foreign 
currency forward contracts held at reporting date. A positive number below indicates an increase in profit for the year 
where the United States dollar weakens 5% against the EURO.

Impact of EURO
Profit for the year (i)

The Group

The Company

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

4,561

7,037

14,171

15,287

(i) 

This is mainly attributable to the exposure outstanding on receivables and payables denominated in EURO at the reporting date.

38.2.2  Interest Rate Risk Management

The Group’s and the Company’s cash flow interest rate risk relates primarily to variable-rate borrowing (see Note 39 
for details of these borrowings), discounted bills with recourse, bank overdrafts and bank balances and deposits. 
In relation to these floating-rate borrowings, the Group aims at keeping certain borrowings at fixed rates. In order to 
achieve this result, the Group enters into interest rate swap contracts to hedge against part of its exposure to potential 
variability of cash flows arising from changes in floating rates (see Note 29 for details). The management continuously 
monitors interest rate fluctuations and will consider further hedging interest rate risk should the need arise.

The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed 
in the liquidity risk management section of this note. The Group’s and the Company’s cash flow interest rate risk is 
mainly concentrated on the fluctuation of London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) arising from the Group’s and the 
Company’s Hong Kong dollar denominated borrowings. In relation to interest bearing bank balances and deposits, the 
Group considers the interest rate risk is insignificance.

The Group’s fair value interest rate risk related primarily to its fixed-rate bank borrowings (see Note 39 for details of 
these borrowings). The Company’s fair value interest rate risk related primarily to its loan to subsidiaries (see Note 21).

During the year, the Group obtained new bank borrowings in the amount of US$2,532 million (2013: US$1,112 
million) which are either LIBOR or Hong Kong best lending rates based. The proceeds were used for refinancing the 
Group’s borrowings.

125

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
38. Financial Instruments (continued)

38.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

38.2.2  Interest Rate Risk Management (continued)

Sensitivity Analysis
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for non-derivative 
instruments. The analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the end of the reporting period 
was outstanding for the whole year without considering the interest rate swaps entered at the end of the reporting 
period. A 50 basis point increase or decrease in LIBOR is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key 
management personnel and represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.

If interest rates had been 50 basis points higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s post-
tax profit for the year ended December 31, 2014 would decrease/increase by US$3,932,000 (2013: decrease/
increase by US$3,842,000). The Company’s profit for the year ended December 31, 2014 would decrease/increase 
by US$3,230,000 (2013: decrease/increase by US$2,911,000). This is mainly attributable to the Group’s and the 
Company’s exposure to interest rates on its variable-rate borrowings.

The Group’s and the Company’s sensitivity to interest rates has decreased and increased during the current period 
mainly due to the decrease and increase in variable rate debt instruments respectively.

38.2.3  Other Price Risk

The Group and the Company are exposed to price risk through its held-for-trading investments and derivative financial 
instruments.

Sensitivity Analysis
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to price risks of equity investments held-
for-trading measured at fair value at the reporting date.

If the prices of the respective equity instruments had been 10% higher/lower the profit for the year ended December 
31, 2014 of the Group and the Company would increase/decrease by US$116,000 (2013: US$100,000) and 
US$116,000 (2013: US$100,000) as a result of the changes in fair value of held-for-trading investments.

38.2.4  Credit Risk Management

As at December 31, 2014, the Group’s and the Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk which will cause a 
financial loss to the Group and the Company due to failure to discharge an obligation by the counterparties and 
financial guarantees provided by the Group and the Company is arising from:

• 

• 

the carrying amount of the respective recognised financial assets as stated in the statements of financial position; 
and

the amount of contingent liabilities in relation to financial guarantees issued by the Group and the Company as 
disclosed in Note 47.

126

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
38. Financial Instruments (continued)

38.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

38.2.4  Credit risk Management (continued)

In order to minimise the credit risk, the management has delegated a team responsible for determination of credit 
limits, credit approvals and other monitoring procedures to ensure that follow-up action is taken to recover overdue 
debts. In addition, the Group and the Company review the recoverable amount of each individual trade debt and debt 
investments at each reporting date to ensure that adequate impairment losses are made for irrecoverable amounts. 
In this regard, the directors of the Company consider that the Group’s and the Company’s credit risk is significantly 
reduced.

The credit risk on liquid funds is limited for the Group and the Company because the counterparties are banks with 
good reputations and credit ratings.

The credit risk on amount due from subsidiaries is limited for the Company because the counterparties are subsidiaries 
with positive cash flow.

The Group’s concentration of credit risk by geographical location is mainly in North America, where 59.0% (2013: 
62.7%) of the total trade receivables as at December 31, 2014 are located.

The Group has concentration of credit risk at 23.3% (2013: 24.0%) and 35.6% (2013: 36.6%) of the total trade 
receivables were due from the Group’s largest customer and the five largest customers respectively.

38.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management

Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the board of directors which has built an appropriate 
liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Group’s short, medium and long-term funding and 
liquidity management requirements. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking 
facilities and reserve borrowing facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the 
maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.

As at December 31, 2014, the Group has available unutilised overdrafts and short and medium term bank loan 
facilities of approximately US$70 million (2013: US$67 million) and US$1,892 million (2013: US$1,824 million) 
respectively.

Liquidity Tables
The following tables detail the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities as well 
as non-derivative financial assets which are included in the maturity analysis. For non-derivative financial assets, the 
tables have been drawn up based on the contractual maturities of the undiscounted cash flow of the financial assets 
unless specified separately. For non-derivative financial liabilities, the tables reflect the undiscounted cash flow of 
financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay. The table includes both 
interest and principal cash flows. To the extent that the interest flows are floating rate, the undiscounted amount is 
derived from the interest rate curve at the end of the reporting period. The inclusion of information on non-derivative 
financial assets is necessary in order to understand the Group’s liquidity risk management as the liquidity is managed 
on a net asset and liability basis.

127

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
38. Financial Instruments (continued)

38.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

38.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity Tables (continued)
In addition, the following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments. The tables 
have been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual net cash (inflows) and outflows on derivative instruments 
that settle on a net basis, and the undiscounted gross (inflows) and outflows on those derivatives that require gross 
settlement. When the amount payable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the 
foreign currency exchange rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period. The liquidity analysis for the Group’s 
derivative financial instruments are prepared based on the contractual maturities as the management consider that the 
contractual maturities are essential for an understanding of the timing of the cash flows of derivatives.

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than
1month/
on demand
US$’000

1-3
months
US$’000

4 months-
1 year
US$’000

1-2 years
US$’000

2+ years 
US$’000

Total
undiscounted
cash flows 
US$’000

Total carrying
amount at
December 31,
2014
US$’000

The Group
2014
Non-derivative financial assets
  Held-for-trading 

investments (Note)

  Available-for-sale 

investments (Note)
  Trade and other receivables
  Bills receivable
  Trade receivables

from an associate

  Bank balances,

  deposits and cash

—

—
—
—

—

1,155

509
648,521
16,695

4,011

—

—

—
82,966
11,534

—

—
88,464
3,371

—

—

0.03% - 0.05%

621,764

68,646

1,292,655

163,146

91,835

—

—
—
—

—

—

—

—

—
—
—

—

—

—

1,155

1,155

509
819,951
31,600

509
819,951
31,600

4,011

4,011

690,410

690,395

1,547,636

1,547,621

Non-derivative financial liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Discounted bills with recourse
  Variable rate borrowings
  Fixed rate borrowings
  Bank overdrafts
  Financial guarantee contracts

—
—
1.43%
1.11% - 3.63%
7.44%
3.25% - 5.00%
—

(611,265)
(16,563)
(72,519)
(83,186)
—
(2,619)
(8,877)

(429,548)
(30,282)
(133)
(86,396)
(99,312)
—
—

(94,717)
—
—
(290,190)
—
—
—

—
—
—
(104,622)
—
—
—

—
—
—
(232,523)
—
—
—

(1,135,530)
(46,845)
(72,652)
(796,917)
(99,312)
(2,619)
(8,877)

(1,135,530)
(46,845)
(72,652)
(778,565)
(95,699)
(2,619)
—

(795,029)

(645,671)

(384,907)

(104,622)

(232,523)

(2,162,752)

(2,131,910)

128

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38. Financial Instruments (continued)

38.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

38.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity Tables (continued)

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than
1 month/
on demand
US$’000

1-3
months
US$’000

4 months-
1 year
US$’000

1-2 years
US$’000

2+ years
US$’000

Total
undiscounted
cash flows
US$’000

Total carrying
amount at
December 31,
2014
US$’000

The Group
2014
Derivatives - net settlement
  Acquisition right of certain

  property, plant & equipment
Interest rate swap

—
0.26% - 0.55%

  Foreign currency forward

  contracts
  – NZD

Derivatives - gross settlement
  Foreign currency

forward contracts

  – inflow
  – AUD
  – EUR
  – RMB
  – GBP
  – US$

  – outflow
  – AUD
  – EUR
  – RMB
  – GBP
  – US$

—

—
—
—
—
—

—
—
—
—
—

—
—

37

37

16,149
7,585
41,359
8,992
12,356

86,441

(14,288)
(7,077)
(41,650)
(8,397)
(10,940)

—
(356)

9

(347)

36,615
18,353
75,839
20,989
32,235

184,031

(33,020)
(16,991)
(76,553)
(19,581)
(29,183)

—
(1,052)

(21)

(1,073)

86,376
47,863
366,176
76,033
101,816

678,264

(76,423)
(45,176)
(373,769)
(71,803)
(93,796)

(82,352)

(175,328)

(660,967)

4,089

8,703

17,297

—
(651)

—

(651)

11,635
—

—

11,635

11,635
(2,059)

11,635
(1,947)

25

9,601

25

9,713

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—

139,140
73,801
483,374
106,014
146,407

948,736

(123,731)
(69,244)
(491,972)
(99,781)
(133,919)

139,140
73,801
483,374
106,014
146,407

948,736

(123,731)
(69,244)
(491,972)
(99,781)
(133,919)

(918,647)

(918,647)

30,089

30,089

129

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38. Financial Instruments (continued)

38.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

38.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity Tables (continued)

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than
1 month/
on demand
US$’000

1-3
months
US$’000

4 months-
1 year
US$’000

1-2 years
US$’000

2+ years
US$’000

Total
undiscounted
cash flows
US$’000

Total carrying
amount at
December 31,
2013
US$’000

The Group
2013
Non-derivative financial assets
  Held-for-trading

investments (Note)

  Available-for-sale

investments (Note)
  Trade and other receivables
  Bills receivable
  Trade receivables

from an associate

  Bank balances,

  deposits and cash

—

—
—
—

—

1,000

520
607,266
14,994

2,580

0.05% - 0.17%

688,836

Non-derivative financial liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Discounted bills with recourse
  Variable rate borrowings
  Fixed rate borrowings
  Bank overdrafts
  Financial guarantee contracts

—
—
1.53%
0.97% - 4.23%
7.44%
3.25% - 5.00%
—

1,315,196

(621,013)
(15,180)
(89,447)
(20,860)
—
(7,887)
(9,099)

—

—
133,537
10,692

3

9,313

153,545

(313,378)
(25,433)
(20,757)
(284,885)
(3,562)
—
—

—

—
42,992
368

7

—

43,367

(105,532)
—
(6,628)
(147,961)
(3,562)
—
—

—

—
—
—

—

—

—

—

—
—
—

—

—

—

1,000

1,000

520
783,795
26,054

520
783,795
26,054

2,590

2,590

698,149

698,147

1,512,108

1,512,106

—
—
—
(119,837)
(99,312)
—
—

—
—
—
(176,315)
—
—
—

(1,039,923)
(40,613)
(116,832)
(749,858)
(106,436)
(7,887)
(9,099)

(1,039,923)
(40,613)
(116,704)
(734,047)
(95,321)
(7,887)
—

(763,486)

(648,015)

(263,683)

(219,149)

(176,315)

(2,070,648)

(2,034,495)

130

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38. Financial Instruments (continued)

38.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

38.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity Tables (continued)

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than
1 month/
on demand
US$’000

1-3
months
US$’000

4 months-
1 year
US$’000

1-2 years
US$’000

2+ years
US$’000

Total
undiscounted
cash flows
US$’000

Total carrying
amount at
December 31,
2013
US$’000

The Group
2013
Derivatives - net settlement
  Acquisition right of certain

  property, plant & equipment
Interest rate swap

—
0.25% - 1.47%

  Foreign currency forward

 contracts

  – NZD

Derivatives - gross settlement
  Foreign currency forward 

  contracts
  – inflow
  – AUD
  – EUR
  – RMB
  – GBP
  – US$

  – outflow
  – AUD
  – EUR
  – RMB
  – GBP
  – US$

—

—
—
—
—
—

—
—
—
—
—

—
—

(5)

(5)

—
2,899
18,298
32,521
11,933

65,651

—
(2,930)
(17,946)
(33,524)
(12,369)

(66,769)

(1,118)

—
(357)

(13)

(370)

7,528
20,998
40,780
20,993
23,872

114,171

(7,364)
(21,685)
(39,925)
(22,357)
(24,737)

—
(1,040)

(9)

(1,049)

22,472
29,686
225,522
43,511
108,277

429,468

(21,983)
(30,447)
(222,348)
(45,103)
(111,352)

(116,068)

(431,233)

(1,897)

(1,765)

—
(1,226)

12,647
(446)

12,647
(3,069)

12,647
(3,202)

—

—

(1,226)

12,201

(27)

9,551

(27)

9,418

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—

30,000
53,583
284,600
97,025
144,082

609,290

(29,347)
(55,062)
(280,219)
(100,984)
(148,458)

30,000
53,583
284,600
97,025
144,082

609,290

(29,347)
(55,062)
(280,219)
(100,984)
(148,458)

(614,070)

(614,070)

(4,780)

(4,780)

131

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38. Financial Instruments (continued)

38.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

38.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity Tables (continued)

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than
1 month/
on demand
US$’000

1-3
months
US$’000

4 months-
1 year
US$’000

1-2 years
US$’000

2+ years
US$’000

Total
undiscounted
cash flows
US$’000

Total carrying
amount at
December 31,
2014
US$’000

The Company
2014
Non-derivative financial assets
  Held-for-trading

investments (Note)

  Available-for-sale

investments (Note)

  Other receivables
  Bank balances,

  deposits and cash
  Loan to/Amounts due from
  subsidiaries (Note)

Non-derivative financial liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Amounts due to subsidiaries
  Unsecured borrowings
  Financial guarantee contracts

—
—
1.98% - 2.67%
—

Derivatives - net settlement

Interest rate swap

0.26% - 0.55%

Derivatives - gross settlement
  Foreign currency forward

—

—
—

1,155

189
—

0.03% - 0.05%

195,383

—

—
—

—

—

—
5,861

—

0.25% - 11.75%

4,729

201,456

(2,877)
(494,702)
(86,997)
(100,577)

9,459

9,459

1,422,625

1,428,486

(5,899)
—
(86,032)
(126,165)

(25,101)
—
(210,156)
(77,046)

—

—
—

—

56,753

56,753

—
—
(103,561)
—

—

—
—

—

1,155

189
5,861

1,155

189
5,861

195,383

195,383

1,894,520

3,388,086

2,221,776

1,894,520

3,590,674

2,424,364

—
—
(231,285)
—

(33,877)
(494,702)
(718,031)
(303,788)

(33,877)
(494,702)
(701,468)
—

(685,153)

(218,096)

(312,303)

(103,561)

(231,285)

(1,550,398)

(1,230,047)

—

—

(356)

(356)

(1,052)

(1,052)

(651)

(651)

 contracts
  – inflow
  – US$
  – AUD
  – RMB

  – outflow
  – US$
  – AUD
  – RMB

132

—
—
—

—
—
—

12,356
16,149
9,585

38,090

(10,940)
(14,288)
(9,830)

(35,058)

3,032

32,235
36,615
19,170

88,020

(29,183)
(33,020)
(19,749)

101,816
86,376
129,209

317,401

(93,796)
(76,423)
(135,196)

(81,952)

(305,415)

6,068

11,986

—
—
—

—

—
—
—

—

—

—

—

—
—
—

—

—
—
—

—

—

(2,059)

(2,059)

(1,947)

(1,947)

146,407
139,140
157,964

443,511

146,407
139,140
157,964

443,511

(133,919)
(123,731)
(164,775)

(133,919)
(123,731)
(164,775)

(422,425)

(422,425)

21,086

21,086

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38. Financial Instruments (continued)

38.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

38.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity Tables (continued)

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than
1 month/
on demand
US$’000

1-3
months
US$’000

4 months-
1 year
US$’000

1-2 years
US$’000

2+ years
US$’000

Total
undiscounted
cash flows
US$’000

Total carrying
amount at
December 31,
2013
US$’000

The Company
2013
Non-derivative financial assets
  Held-for-trading

investments (Note)

  Available-for-sale

investments (Note)

  Other receivables
  Bank balances,

—

—
—

  deposits and cash
  Loan to/Amounts due from
  subsidiaries (Note)

0.05% - 0.17%

5.28% - 10.15%

1,000

196
5

52,462

8,551

62,214

—

—
—

—

—

—
6,202

—

8,311

8,311

1,274,486

1,280,688

Non-derivative financial liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Amounts due to subsidiaries
  Unsecured borrowings
  Financial guarantee contracts

—
—
1.87% - 2.70%
—

(2,519)
(579,524)
(26,896)
(128,574)

(4,518)
—
(284,574)
(60,063)

(19,366)
—
(61,722)
(69,217)

—

—
—

—

49,865

49,865

—
—
(116,923)
(38,128)

—

—
—

—

1,000

196
6,207

1,000

196
6,207

52,462

52,462

1,312,182

2,653,395

1,801,612

1,312,182

2,713,260

1,861,477

—
—
(172,657)
(57,193)

(26,403)
(579,524)
(662,772)
(353,175)

(26,403)
(579,524)
(650,495)
—

Derivatives - net settlement

Interest rate swap

0.25% - 1.47%

(737,513)

(349,155)

(150,305)

(155,051)

(229,850)

(1,621,874)

(1,256,422)

—

—

(357)

(357)

(1,040)

(1,040)

(1,226)

(1,226)

(446)

(446)

(3,069)

(3,069)

(3,202)

(3,202)

Derivatives - gross settlement
  Foreign currency forward

  contracts
  – inflow
  – US$
  – AUD

  – outflow
  – US$
  – AUD

—
—

—
—

11,933
—

11,933

(12,369)
—

(12,369)

(436)

23,872
7,528

31,400

(24,737)
(7,364)

(32,101)

(701)

108,277
22,472

130,749

(111,352)
(21,983)

(133,335)

(2,586)

—
—

—

—
—

—

—

—
—

—

—
—

—

—

144,082
30,000

174,082

144,082
30,000

174,082

(148,458)
(29,347)

(148,458)
(29,347)

(177,805)

(177,805)

(3,723)

(3,723)

Note:  Maturities are based on the management’s estimation of the expected realisation of these financial assets.

133

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38. Financial Instruments (continued)

38.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

38.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

The amounts included above for financial guarantee contracts are the maximum amounts the Group and the Company 
could be required to settle under the arrangement for the full guaranteed amount if that amount is claimed by the 
counterparty to the guarantee. Based on expectations at the end of the reporting period, the Group and the Company 
considers that it is more likely than not that no amount will be payable under the arrangement. However, this estimate 
is subject to change depending on the probability of the counterparty claiming under guarantee which is a function of 
the likelihood that the financial receivables held by the counterparty which are guaranteed suffer credit losses.

The amount included above for variable interest rate instruments for non-derivative financial liabilities is subject to 
change if changes in variable interest rates differ to those estimates of interest rate determined at the end of the 
reporting period.

38.3 Fair Value

The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows:

• 

• 

• 

• 

the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield 
curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the contract;

the fair value of the interest rate swap is measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted 
based on the applicable yield curves derived from noted interest rate;

the fair value of financial assets with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are 
determined with reference to quoted market bid prices; and

the fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) are determined 
in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from 
observable current market transactions.

The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities carried at amortised cost approximate their carrying amounts.

Fair Value Measurements Recognised in the Statement of Financial Position
Fair value of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities are measured on a recurring basis:

Some of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting 
period. The following table gives information about how the fair values of these financial assets and financial liabilities are 
determined (in particular, the valuation technique(s) and inputs used), as well as the level of the fair value hierarchy into 
which the fair value measurements are categorised (Levels 1 to 3) based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value 
measurements is observable.

• 

• 

• 

Level 1: fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical 
assets or liabilities;

Level 2: fair value measurements are those derived from inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that 
are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and

Level 3: fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or 
liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).

134

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
38. Financial Instruments (continued)

38.3 Fair Value (continued)

Fair Value Measurements Recognised in the Statement of Financial Position (continued)

Financial assets/financial liabilities

Fair value

hierarchy

and key inputs

Fair value

Valuation techniques

2014

2013

Relationship

of

Significant

unobservable

unobservable

input

inputs to

fair value

1) 

2) 

3) 

4) 

Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment

Acquisition right of

Acquisition right of

Level 2 Measured at the fair value of the land

N/A

N/A

  classified as derivative financial instruments in the

  consolidated statement of financial position

 certain property,

certain property,

  and buildings associated with the

plant and

equipment:

plant and

equipment:

US$11,635,000

US$12,647,000

  acquisition right which is based on

  a valuation by 3rd party

independent valuer.

Foreign currency forward contracts classified as derivative

Assets – 

Assets –

Level 2 Quoted forward exchange rates and

N/A

N/A

financial instruments in the consolidated

  statement of financial position

US$39,666,000;

US$5,073,000;

  yield curves derived from quoted

and Liabilities –

and Liabilities –

interest rates matching maturities

US$9,552,000

US$9,880,000

  of the contracts.

Held-for-trading non-derivative financial assets classified as

  held-for-trading investments in the consolidated statement of

financial position

Unlisted

investment

fund: US$1,155,000

Unlisted

investment

fund:

US$1,000,000

Level 2 Quoted prices based on the prices

N/A

N/A

  of stocks invested by the

investment fund.

Interest rate swaps classified as derivative financial

Liabilities

Liabilities

Level 2 Measured at the present value of

N/A

N/A

instruments in the consolidated statement of financial position

(not designated

(not designated

future cash flows estimated and

for hedging) –

for hedging) –

  discounted based on the

US$1,947,000

US$3,202,000

  applicable yield curves derived

from quoted interest rates.

The directors of the Company consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at 
amortised cost in the consolidated financial statements approximate their fair values. There were no transfers between Level 
1 and 2 in both periods.

135

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38. Financial Instruments (continued)

38.3 Fair Value (continued)

Fair Value Measurements Recognised in the Statement of Financial Position (continued)

The Group
2014
Financial assets
Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment
Foreign currency forward contracts
Held-for-trading investments

Total

Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts
Interest rate swap

Total

2013
Financial assets
Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment
Foreign currency forward contracts
Held-for-trading investments

Total

Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts
Interest rate swap

Total

Level 2
US$’000

Total
US$’000

11,635
39,666
1,155

52,456

11,635
39,666
1,155

52,456

(9,552)
(1,947)

(9,552)
(1,947)

(11,499)

(11,499)

12,647
5,073
1,000

18,720

(9,880)
(3,202)

12,647
5,073
1,000

18,720

(9,880)
(3,202)

(13,082)

(13,082)

136

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38. Financial Instruments (continued)

38.3 Fair Value (continued)

Fair Value Measurements Recognised in the Statement of Financial Position (continued)

The Company
2014
Financial assets
Foreign currency forward contracts
Held-for-trading investments

Total

Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts
Interest rate swap

Total

2013
Financial assets
Foreign currency forward contracts
Held-for-trading investments

Total

Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts
Interest rate swap

Total

Level 2
US$’000

Total
US$’000

27,897
1,155

29,052

(6,811)
(1,947)

(8,758)

653
1,000

1,653

(4,376)
(3,202)

(7,578)

27,897
1,155

29,052

(6,811)
(1,947)

(8,758)

653
1,000

1,653

(4,376)
(3,202)

(7,578)

38.4 Transfer of Financial Assets

The following were the Group’s financial assets as at December 31, 2014 that were transferred to banks by discounting or 
factoring those trade and bills receivables on a full recourse basis. As the Group has not transferred the significant risks and 
rewards relating to these receivables, it continues to recognise the full carrying amount of the receivables and has recognised 
the cash received on the transfer as discounted bills with recourse (see Note 36) and unsecured borrowings - due within one 
year (see Note 39). These financial assets are carried at amortised cost in the Group’s consolidated statement of financial 
position.

The trade and bills receivable discounted with banks with full recourse at the year end was as follows:

Carrying amount of transferred assets
Carrying amount of associated liabilities

Net position

2014
US$’000

147,652
(147,652)

2013
US$’000

191,656
(191,656)

—

—

137

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 39. Unsecured Borrowings

Bank advance from factored trade receivables
Bank loans

Bank borrowings
Fixed interest rate notes (Note)

Total borrowings

The Group

The Company

2014
US$’000

75,000
703,565

778,565
95,699

874,264

2013
US$’000

74,952
659,095

734,047
95,321

829,368

2014
US$’000

—
701,468

701,468
—

701,468

2013
US$’000

—
650,495

650,495
—

650,495

The borrowings of the Group and the Company are repayable as follows:

Fixed rate
Within one year
In more than one year but not more than two years
Floating rate
Within one year
In more than one year but not more than two years
In more than two years but not more than five years

Less: Amount due within one year shown under

  current liabilities

Amount due after one year

The Group

The Company

2014
US$’000

95,699
—

456,349
145,301
176,915

874,264

2013
US$’000

—
95,321

454,624
113,730
165,693

829,368

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

—
—

379,252
145,301
176,915

701,468

—
—

371,072
113,730
165,693

650,495

(552,048)

(454,624)

(379,252)

(371,072)

322,216

374,744

322,216

279,423

The ranges of effective interest rates (which are also equal to contracted interest rates) on the Group’s borrowings are as follows:

Effective interest rate:
  Fixed-rate borrowings
  Variable-rate borrowings

2014

2013

7.44%
1.11% to 3.63%

7.44%
0.97% to 4.23%

The Group’s borrowings that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the relevant group entities are 
set out below:

As at December 31, 2014
As at December 31, 2013

US$’000

195,419
210,807

138

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39. Unsecured Borrowings (continued)

Note: 

In 2003, the Group issued fixed interest rate notes, through its wholly-owned subsidiary in the US, for an aggregate principal amount of US$145,000,000. The 

notes were issued in two fixed rate tranches, being US$120,000,000 for 10 years at 6.70% per annum and US$25,000,000 for 7 years at 6.09% per annum. 

The proceeds were used to refinance existing medium term debts and for general working capital purposes. During 2013, the Group repaid US$39,375,000 of 

the first tranche and the first tranche was then fully repaid. The second tranche was fully repaid in 2010.

In 2005, the Group issued additional fixed interest rate notes, through its wholly-owned subsidiary in the US, for an aggregate principal amount of 

US$200,000,000. The notes were issued in two fixed rate tranches of US$150,000,000 for 10 years at 7.44% per annum and US$50,000,000 for 7 years at 

7.17% per annum. The proceeds were used to finance the acquisition of subsidiaries. The second tranche was fully repaid in 2012.

The carrying amount of bank borrowings approximates their fair value as the weighted average interest rates approximate the 
contracted market rates.

40. Share Capital

2014
Number
of shares

2013
Number
of shares

2014

2013

US$’000

US$’000

Ordinary shares
Authorised shares (Note)

2,400,000,000

2,400,000,000

N/A (Note)

30,769

Note:  Under Chapter 622 of the new Hong Kong Companies Ordinance, with effect from March 3, 2014, the concept of authorised share capital no longer exists and 

the Company’s shares no longer have a par value. There is no impact on the number of shares in issue or the relative entitlement of any of the shareholders as a 

result of this transition.

Issued and fully paid:
  At the beginning of the year

Issue of shares upon exercise of share options

  Buy-back of shares
  Transfer of share premium and capital redemption 

reserve upon abolition of par value under the new 

1,829,883,941
2,328,000
(865,000)

1,829,080,941
4,103,000
(3,300,000)

  Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (Note)

—

—

At the end of the year

1,831,346,941

1,829,883,941

23,471
1,408
—

619,035

643,914

23,461
52
(42)

—

23,471

Note: 

In accordance with the transitional provisions set out in section 37 of schedule 11 to Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622), on March 3, 2014, any 
amount standing to the credit of the share premium account has become part of the Company’s share capital.

Details of the share options are set out in Note 48.

During the year, the Company bought back and cancelled its own shares through the Stock Exchange as follows:

Month of buy-back

September 2014
October 2014
November 2014
December 2014

No. of 
ordinary
shares

285,000
330,000
150,000
100,000

865,000

Price per share

Highest
HK$

21.80
22.50
24.15
23.65

Lowest
HK$

20.80
21.10
24.00
23.60

Aggregate
consideration

paid
US$’000

779
935
467
305

2,486

The consideration paid on the buy-back of shares of approximately US$2,486,000 was charged to retained profits.

139

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41. Reserves

The Company
At January 1, 2013
Loss for the year
Fair value loss on foreign currency forward
  contracts in hedge accounting

Other comprehensive loss for the year

Total comprehensive loss for the year

Shares issued at premium on exercise of options
Buy-back of shares
Recognition of equity settled
  share-based payments
Lapse of share options
Final dividend - 2012
Interim dividend - 2013

At December 31, 2013
Profit for the year
Fair value gain on foreign currency forward
  contracts in hedge accounting

Other comprehensive income for the year

Total comprehensive income for the year

Shares issued at premium on exercise of options
Buy-back of shares
Shares for share award scheme
Recognition of equity settled
  share-based payments
Final dividend - 2013
Interim dividend - 2014
Transfer upon abolition of par value under

the new Hong Kong

  Companies Ordinance (Note)

At December 31, 2014

Share
premium
US$’000

613,090
—

—

—

—

4,473
—

—
—
—
—

617,563
—

—

—

—

1,247
—
—

—
—
—

Capital
redemption
reserve
US$’000

Shares held for
share award
scheme
US$’000

Employee
share-based
compensation
reserve
US$’000

Hedging
reserve
US$’000

Retained
profits
US$’000

Total
US$’000

183
—

—

—

—

—
42

—
—
—
—

225
—

—

—

—

—
—
—

—
—
—

—
—

—

—

—

—
—

—
—
—
—

—
—

—

—

—

—
—
(2,441)

—
—
—

—

(2,441)

3,213
—

—

—

—

(840)
—

366
(6)
—
—

2,733
—

—

—

—

(497)
—
—

1,718
—
—

—

3,954

(1,254)
—

(2,470)

(2,470)

(2,470)

—
—

—
—
—
—

449,463
(4,715)

1,064,695
(4,715)

—

—

(4,715)

—
(7,158)

—
6
(25,330)
(23,554)

(2,470)

(2,470)

(7,185)

3,633
(7,116)

366
—
(25,330)
(23,554)

(3,724)
—

388,712
1,242,198

1,005,509
1,242,198

24,811

24,811

—

—

24,811

24,811

24,811

1,242,198

1,267,009

—
—
—

—
—
—

—

—
(2,486)
—

—
(32,400)
(29,458)

750
(2,486)
(2,441)

1,718
(32,400)
(29,458)

—

(619,035)

21,087

1,566,566

1,589,166

(618,810)

—

(225)

—

Note:  The Company’s shares have no par value from the commencement date of Chapter 622 of the new Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (i.e. March 3, 2014).

As at December 31, 2014, the Company’s reserves available for distribution to shareholders comprised the retained profits of 
US$1,566,566,000 (2013: US$388,712,000).

140

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42. Retirement Benefit Obligations

Defined Contribution Plans:
The Company and its subsidiaries operating in Hong Kong have participated in the Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes (“MPF 
Schemes”) registered under the Mandatory Provident Fund Ordinance since December 2000. The assets of the MPF Schemes are 
held separately from those of the Group, in funds under the control of trustees. The Group contributes 5% of relevant payroll cost 
to the MPF Schemes with maximum amount of HK$16,750 (2013: HK$15,000) per employee per annum, which contribution is 
matched by the employee.

The employees of the Group’s subsidiaries in the PRC are members of a state-managed retirement benefit scheme operated by 
the PRC government. The subsidiaries are required to contribute a specified percentage of payroll costs to the retirement benefit 
scheme to fund the benefits. The only obligation of the Group with respect to the retirement benefit scheme is to make the 
specified contributions.

The Group’s overseas subsidiaries operate a number of defined contribution schemes. Contributions to the defined contribution 
schemes applicable to each year are made at a certain percentage of the employees’ payroll.

The total expense recognised in profit or loss of US$3,475,000 (2013: US$2,506,000) represents contributions payable to these 
plans by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the plans.

Defined Benefits Plans:
The Group operates several defined benefit plans for qualifying employees of its subsidiaries in Germany and the US, of which 
these plans cover substantially all remaining employees that are not covered by defined contribution plans. The defined benefit 
plan is administered by a separate fund that is legally separated from the Group. The board of the pension fund is composed of 
an equal number of representatives from both employers and (former) employees. The board of the pension fund is required by 
law and by its articles of association to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme, i.e. active 
employees, inactive employees, retirees, employers. The board of the pension fund is responsible for the investment policy with 
regard to the assets of the fund. The major defined benefit plans are as follows:

Pension plan obligations (Note i)
Post-retirement, medical and dental plan obligations (Note ii)
Life and medical insurance plan (Note ii)
Post-employment benefit plan obligations (Note iii)
Others

2014
US$’000

87,027
220
1,100
5,661
5,399

99,407

2013
US$’000

95,476
383
1,549
7,694
1,194

106,296

Note i:  Pension plan obligations

The pension plan obligations are provided in the German operations and includes a plan that pays retirement benefits on service and final pay. In general, the 

benefit plans were closed to new members at the end of 1995. Under the plan, the employees are entitled to retirement benefits varying between 10% and 

20% of final salary (based on the average of the last three years) on attainment of a retirement age of 65. The most recent actuarial valuations of the present 

value of the defined benefit obligations were carried out on October 20, 2014, by BDO Deutsche Warentreuhand Aktiengesellschaft, Germany.

Note ii:  Post-retirement, medical and dental plan obligations/Life and medical insurance plan

Milwaukee Electric Tool Corporation, a subsidiary of the Group in the US, operates unfunded post-retirement, medical benefits, dental and life insurance 

plans. The most recent actuarial valuations of the present value of the obligations were carried out on January 15, 2015 by Willis North America, Inc.

Note iii:  Post-employment benefit plan obligations

The pension plan obligations are provided by Hoover Inc. for members of IBEW (International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers) Local 1985 employed by 

Hoover. The most recent actuarial valuation of the present value of the obligations were carried out on January 13, 2015 by CBIZ Benefits & Insurance 

Services.

141

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)

Defined Benefits Plans: (continued)
The plans in Germany and the US expose the Group to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and 
salary risk.

Investment risk

Interest risk

Longevity risk

Salary risk

The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate determined by 
reference to high quality corporate bond yields; if the return on plan asset is below this rate, it will create a 
plan deficit.
A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the plan liability; however, this will be partially offset by an 
increase in the return on the plan’s debt investments.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the 
mortality of plan participants both during and after their employment. An increase in the life expectancy of 
the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan 
participants. As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.

The risk relating to benefits to be paid to the dependents of plan members (widow and orphan benefits) is reinsured by an external 
insurance company.

The main actuarial assumptions used were as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement
medical and dental plan

Life & medical
insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2014

2.70%
2.00%
N/A
2.00%
N/A

2013

3.00%
2.00%
N/A
2.00%
N/A

2014

0.75%
N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

2013

0.75%
N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

2014

3.25%
N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

2013

3.50%
N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

2014

4.57%
N/A
4.57%
N/A
N/A

2013

3.70%
N/A
3.70%
N/A
N/A

Discount rate
Expected rate of salary increases
Expected return on plan assets
Future pension increases
Medical cost trend rates

The actuarial valuation showed that the market value of plan assets was US$7,445,000 (2013: US$4,489,000) and that the 
actuarial value of these assets represented 56.8% (2013: 36.8%) of the benefits that had accrued to members.

The effect of an increase of one percentage point in the assumed medical cost trend rate on the aggregate of the current service 
cost and interest cost; and the accumulated post-employment benefit obligations are as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement
medical and dental plan

Life & medical
insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

Current service cost and interest cost
Accumulated post-employment benefit 
  obligations for medical costs

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

—

2

—

5

2

72

3

91

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

142

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
42. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)

Amounts recognised in comprehensive income in respect of the plans are as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement
medical and dental plan

Life & medical
Insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

312
2,397

348
3,032

2,709

3,380

—
2

2

—
4

4

—
52

52

—
49

49

—
351

351

—
291

291

5,323

10,033

(134)

(99)

(437)

(332)

2,115

(459)

5,323

8,032

10,033

13,413

(134)

(132)

(99)

(95)

(437)

(385)

(332)

(283)

2,115

2,466

(459)

(168)

Service cost:
  Current service cost
Net interest on defined benefit liabilities

Components of defined benefit costs

recognised in profit or loss

Remeasurement on the net
  defined benefit liability:
Actuarial losses (gains) arising from 
  changes in financial assumptions

Components of defined benefit
  costs recognised in other
  comprehensive income

Total

The charge for the year has been included in staff costs.

The amount included in the consolidated statement of financial position arising from the Group’s obligation in respect of the major 
plans is as follows:

Present value of funded obligations
Fair value of plan assets

Present value of unfunded obligations

Pension plan

Post-retirement
medical and dental plan

Life & medical
insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

—
—

—
87,027

87,027

—
—

—
95,476

95,476

—
—

—
220

220

—
—

—
383

383

—
—

—
1,100

1,100

—
—

—
1,549

1,549

2014
US$’000

13,106
(7,445)

5,661
—

5,661

2013
US$’000

12,183
(4,489)

7,694
—

7,694

143

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
42. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)

Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligations in the current year in respect of major plans were as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement
medical and dental plan

Life & medical
insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

95,476
(11,846)
312
5,323
2,397
(4,635)

87,027

82,588
4,203
348
10,033
3,032
(4,728)

95,476

383
—
—
(134)
2
(31)

220

602
—
—
(99)
4
(124)

383

1,549
—
—
(437)
52
(64)

1,100

1,861
—
—
(332)
49
(29)

1,549

12,183
—
—
1,938
526
(1,541)

13,106

13,700
—
—
(657)
482
(1,342)

12,183

At January 1
Exchange differences
Current service cost
Actuarial losses (gains)
Interest cost
Benefit paid

At December 31

Movements in the fair value of the plan assets in the current year in respect of certain major plans were as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement
medical and dental plan

Life & medical
insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

4,489
—
175
(177)
4,500
(1,542)

7,445

5,838
—
191
(198)
—
(1,342)

4,489

At January 1
Exchange differences
Expected return on plan assets
Actuarial losses
Contribution from employer
Benefit paid

At December 31

The plan assets of the post-employment benefit plan are cash and cash equivalents in a Federated Money Market Fund with an 
expected return of 4.57% (2013: 3.70%).

The actual return on plan assets was US$177,000 (2013: US$198,000).

Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined obligation is discount rate, if the discount rate is 100 basis 
points higher (lower), the effect on defined benefit obligation would be immaterial.

The Group expects to make a contribution of nil (2013: US$4,500,000) to the defined benefit plans during the next financial year.

144

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
43. Deferred Tax Assets (Liabilities)

The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised and movements thereon during the current and prior 
year:

Accelerated
tax
depreciation
US$’000

Warranty
provision
US$’000

Employee
related
provision
US$’000

The Group
At January 1, 2013
Currency realignment
(Charge) credit to profit or loss
Credit to equity
Acquisition of businesses

At December 31, 2013
Currency realignment
Credit (charge) to profit or loss
Credit (charge) to equity

At December 31, 2014

(1,603)
(45)
(251)
—
—

(1,899)
37
5,685
—

3,823

3,377
(164)
942
—
—

4,155
(173)
2,274
—

6,256

The Company
At January 1, 2013
(Charge) credit to profit or loss

At December 31, 2013
Credit (charge) to profit or loss

At December 31, 2014

Tax
losses
US$’000

53,704
485
(14,442)
—
—

39,747
(323)
7,695
—

25,242
(83)
4,376
3,325
—

32,860
(212)
3,311
2,282

38,241

47,119

Inventory
provision
and LIFO
US$’000

1,448
(22)
3,716
—
—

5,142
(64)
3,205
—

8,283

Others
US$’000

Total
US$’000

(23,953)
(330)
20,504
—
(3,437)

(7,216)
(266)
(12,360)
(1,334)

(21,176)

58,215
(159)
14,845
3,325
(3,437)

72,789
(1,001)
9,810
948

82,546

Accelerated
tax
depreciation
US$’000

Tax loss
US$’000

Total
US$’000

178
(48)

130
313

443

(178)
48

(130)
(313)

(443)

—
—

—
—

—

Note: 

Included in Others are the deferred tax impact of the restructuring provision, intellectual properties and other temporary differences.

145

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43. Deferred Tax Assets (Liabilities) (continued)

For the purpose of presentation in the consolidated statement of financial position, certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have 
been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances for financial reporting purposes:

Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax liabilities

The Group

2014
US$’000

86,911
(4,365)

82,546

2013
US$’000

79,064
(6,275)

72,789

At the end of the reporting period, the Group has unused tax losses of US$532 million (2013: US$553 million) available for the 
offset against future taxable profits that carry forward for at least fourteen years. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in 
respect of tax losses of US$409 million (2013: US$413 million) due to the lack of probable future taxable profits.

44. Acquisition of Businesses

In January 2014, the Group acquired certain assets and business from Index Measuring Tape Co., Ltd (“Index”) for a total 
consideration of approximately US$17.8 million. Index’s business was acquired so as to continue the expansion of the Group’s 
power equipment business. Index is engaged in manufacture and trading of tape measure products and is included in the Power 
Equipment segment.

In May 2014, the Group acquired certain assets, liabilities and business from Empire Level Mfg. Corp. (“Empire”) for a total 
consideration of approximately US$30.0 million. Empire’s business was acquired so as to continue the expansion of the Group’s 
power equipment business. Empire is engaged in manufacture and trading of hand tools products and is included in the Power 
Equipment segment.

Net Assets Acquired
Property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets
Inventories
Trade and other receivables, deposits and prepayments
Bank balances and cash
Trade and other payables
Warranty provision

Goodwill arising on acquisition of businesses

Total consideration

Net cash outflow arising on acquisition:
  Total consideration
  Less: Purchase consideration payable (due in January 2015)

  Bank balances and cash acquired

Net outflow of cash and cash equivalents in respect of the acquisition of businesses

Fair value
US$’000

3,566
10,168
10,441
8,693
418
(6,423)
(300)

26,563
24,012

50,575

50,575
(2,006)
(418)

48,151

146

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44. Acquisition of Businesses (continued)

Intangible assets of US$10.2 million and goodwill of US$24.0 million arose on the acquisitions of Index, Empire and Kottmann’s 
business from trademarks, patents, deferred development cost, retailer and service relationships and the anticipated profitability 
arising from new product synergies and cost savings within the Power Equipment segment, respectively.

Acquisition-related costs are insignificance and have been excluded from the consideration transferred and have been recognised 
as an expense in the current year.

The businesses acquired contributed approximately US$27,697,000 to the Group’s turnover, and approximately US$576,000 
increase in the Group’s profit before taxation for the period between the respective dates of acquisition and the reporting date as at 
December 31, 2014.

The revenue and profit or loss of the acquired businesses for the current reporting period as though the acquisition date for the 
acquisitions that occurred during the year has been as of the beginning of the annual reporting period is not presented as it was 
impracticable to obtain various values in various acquiree’s operations prior to the acquisition.

45. Major Non-Cash Transactions

During the year ended December 31, 2014, the Group entered into finance lease arrangements in respect of assets at the 
inception of the finance leases of US$10,395,000 (2013: nil).

46. Lease Commitments

At the end of the reporting period, the Group and the Company had outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows:

Within one year
In the second to fifth year inclusive
After five years

The Group

The Company

2014
US$’000

46,795
109,589
51,257

207,641

2013
US$’000

31,635
55,989
26,989

114,613

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

780
—
—

780

780
—
—

780

Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group and the Company for certain of its plant and machinery, motor 
vehicles, office properties and other assets. Leases are negotiated for a term ranging from 1 year to 17 years.

147

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
47. Contingent Liabilities

The Group

The Company

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

Guarantees given to banks in respect of
  credit facilities utilised by associates

8,877

9,099

8,877

9,099

In addition, the Company has given guarantees to banks in respect of general facilities granted to its subsidiaries. The extent of 
such facilities utilised by the subsidiaries as at December 31, 2014 amounted to US$294,911,000 (2013: US$344,076,000).

48. Share Options

Scheme adopted on May 29, 2007 (“Scheme D”)
Following the termination of Scheme C, a new share option scheme was adopted pursuant to a resolution passed on May 29, 2007 
for recognition of the contribution to the development and growth of the Group by the eligible persons. This scheme will expire on 
May 28, 2017. Under Scheme D, the Board of Directors of the Company may grant share options to the following eligible persons 
(and their wholly owned companies) of the Company, its subsidiaries and any companies in which the Group holds any equity 
interest, to subscribe for shares in the Company:

(i) 

employees; or

(ii)  Non-executive Directors (including Independent Non-executive Directors or officers); or

(iii) 

secondees; or

(iv)  business partners, agents, consultants; or

(v) 

suppliers or customers; or

(vi)  any person or entity that provides research, development or other technological support; or

(vii)  shareholders.

Share options granted must be taken up within 21 days of the date of grant, upon payment of HK$1.00 in cash by way of 
consideration for the grant thereof. Share options may be exercised at any time, subject to vesting conditions from the date of grant 
to the tenth anniversary thereof. The subscription price is set at the highest of: the closing price of the shares on the date of offer 
of the share option; or the average closing price of shares as stated in the daily quotation sheets issued by the Stock Exchange for 
the five trading days immediately preceding the date of offer; or the nominal value of shares on the date of offer.

The maximum number of shares in respect of which share options may be granted under Scheme D is not permitted to exceed 
30.0% of the issued share capital of the Company from time to time or 10.0% of shares in issue as at the adoption date of Scheme D. 
No person shall be granted an option which exceeds 1.0% of the shares in issue as at the date of offer in any 12-month period up 
to the date thereof.

Options may be exercised at any time after the first anniversary of the date of grant of the share option to the tenth anniversary of 
the date of grant. The exercise price is determined by the Directors of the Company, and will not be less than the higher of (i) the 
closing price of the Company’s shares on the date of grant, (ii) the average closing price of the shares for the five business days 
immediately preceding the date of grant; and (iii) the nominal value of the Company’s share.

148

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
48. Share Options (continued)

The following tables disclose movements in the Company’s share options during the year:

Date of

Share option

share options

granted

scheme

category

Outstanding

at beginning

of the year

Granted

during

the year

Exercised

during

the year

Lapsed

during

the year

Outstanding

at end of

the year

2014

Share option holders

Directors

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

16.11.2009

26.11.2010

21.5.2012

20.3.2014

16.11.2009

20.3.2014

20.3.2014

21.5.2012

20.3.2014

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

21.5.2012

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

600,000

600,000

570,000

—

1,000,000

—

—

1,000,000

—

—

—

230,000

—

1,000,000

1,000,000

—

—

1,000,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

250,000

100,000

250,000

200,000

200,000

250,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(600,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(400,000)

—

—

(250,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Total for directors

6,720,000

3,230,000

(1,250,000)

Share option holders

Employees

Date of

Share option

Outstanding

share options

granted

scheme

category

at beginning

of the year

Granted

during

the year

24.8.2007

16.10.2007

7.11.2007

14.1.2008

17.4.2008

14.5.2008

30.5.2008

16.11.2009

7.12.2009

28.12.2009

13.9.2010

17.1.2011

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

980,000

60,000

40,000

518,000

575,000

40,000

350,000

2,220,000

100,000

30,000

500,000

20,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Exercised

during

the year

(150,000)

—

—

(13,000)

(175,000)

—

(100,000)

(540,000)

(100,000)

—

—

—

Total for employees

Total for all categories

5,433,000

—                  

 (1,078,000)                    

12,153,000

3,230,000               

(2,328,000)                       

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Lapsed

during

the year

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

— 

—

Subscription

price

HK$

Exercise period

6.770  

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

8.310  

26.11.2010 

-  25.11.2020

8.742  

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

21.600  

20.3.2014 

-  19.3.2024

6.770  

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

21.600  

20.3.2014 

-  19.3.2024

21.600  

20.3.2014 

-  19.3.2024

8.742  

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

21.600  

20.3.2014 

-  19.3.2024

6.770  

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

9.872  

8.742  

8.742  

9.872  

8.742  

23.5.2011 

-  22.5.2021

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

23.5.2011 

-  22.5.2021

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

6.770  

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

9.872  

8.742  

23.5.2011 

-  22.5.2021

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

6.770  

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

9.872  

8.742  

23.5.2011 

-  22.5.2021

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

—

600,000

570,000

230,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

—

200,000

250,000

—

100,000

250,000

200,000

200,000

250,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

8,700,000

Outstanding

at end of

Subscription

the year

830,000

60,000

40,000

505,000

400,000

40,000

250,000

price

HK$

Exercise period

8.390  

24.8.2007 

-  23.8.2017

8.810  

16.10.2007 

- 15.10.2017

8.088  

7.11.2007 

-  6.11.2017

7.566  

14.1.2008 

-  13.1.2018

7.780  

17.4.2008 

-  16.4.2018

7.500  

14.5.2008 

-  13.5.2018

7.546  

30.5.2008 

-  29.5.2018

1,680,000

6.770  

16.11.2009 

- 15.11.2019

6.790  

7.12.2009 

-  6.12.2019

6.390  

28.12.2009 

- 27.12.2019

7.390  

13.9.2010 

-  12.9.2020

10.436  

17.1.2011  -  16.1.2021

—

30,000

500,000

20,000

4,355,000 

13,055,000

149

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48. Share Options (continued)

Date of

Share option

share options

granted

scheme

category

Outstanding

at beginning

of the year

Granted

during

the year

Exercised

during

the year

Lapsed

during

the year

Outstanding

at end of

the year

16.11.2009

26.11.2010

21.5.2012

16.11.2009

16.11.2009

21.5.2012

16.11.2009

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

600,000

600,000

570,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

600,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

200,000

250,000

100,000

250,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

8,720,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Date of

Share option

share options

granted

scheme

category

Outstanding

at beginning

of the year

Granted

during

the year

24.8.2007

16.10.2007

7.11.2007

14.1.2008

17.4.2008

14.5.2008

30.5.2008

11.9.2008

1.12.2008

16.11.2009

7.12.2009

21.12.2009

28.12.2009

13.9.2010

17.1.2011

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

1,180,000

75,000

40,000

605,000

775,000

40,000

426,000

50,000

100,000

3,570,000

100,000

50,000

30,000

500,000

20,000

7,561,000

16,281,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(1,000,000)

—

(600,000)

—

—

—

(200,000)

—

—

—

(200,000)

—

—

—

—

—

(2,000,000)

Exercised

during

the year

(200,000)

(15,000)

—

(87,000)

(175,000)

—

(76,000)

(50,000)

(100,000)

(1,350,000)

—

(50,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Lapsed

during

the year

—

—

—

—

(25,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

600,000

600,000

570,000

1,000,000

—

1,000,000

—

400,000

200,000

250,000

—

250,000

100,000

250,000

200,000

200,000

250,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

6,720,000

Outstanding

at end of

the year

980,000

60,000

40,000

518,000

575,000

40,000

350,000

—

—

2,220,000

100,000

—

30,000

500,000

20,000

(2,103,000)

(25,000)

5,433,000

(4,103,000)

(25,000)

12,153,000

Subscription

price

HK$

6.770

8.310

8.742

6.770

6.770

8.742

6.770

6.770

9.872

8.742

9.872

8.742

9.872

8.742

6.770

9.872

8.742

6.770

9.872

8.742

Subscription

price

HK$

8.390

8.810

8.088

7.566

7.780

7.500

7.546

7.430

2.340

6.770

6.790

6.350

6.390

7.390

10.436

Exercise period

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

26.11.2010 

-  25.11.2020

21.5.2012 

- 

20.5.2022

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

21.5.2012 

- 

20.5.2022

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

23.5.2011 

21.5.2012 

23.5.2011 

21.5.2012 

23.5.2011 

21.5.2012 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

22.5.2021

20.5.2022

22.5.2021

20.5.2022

22.5.2021

20.5.2022

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

23.5.2011 

21.5.2012 

- 

- 

22.5.2021

20.5.2022

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

23.5.2011 

21.5.2012 

- 

- 

22.5.2021

20.5.2022

Exercise period

24.8.2007 

- 

23.8.2017

16.10.2007 

-  15.10.2017

7.11.2007 

14.1.2008 

17.4.2008 

14.5.2008 

30.5.2008 

11.9.2008 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

6.11.2017

13.1.2018

16.4.2018

13.5.2018

29.5.2018

10.9.2018

1.12.2008 

-  30.11.2018

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

7.12.2009 

- 

6.12.2019

21.12.2009 

-  20.12.2019

28.12.2009 

-  27.12.2019

13.9.2010 

17.1.2011 

- 

- 

12.9.2020

16.1.2021

2013

Share option holders

Directors

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Total for directors

Share option holders

Employees

Total for employees

Total for all categories

150

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48. Share Options (continued)

The following table discloses details of the Company’s share options held by employees (including directors) and movements in 
such holdings during the year:

Option type

Scheme D

Exercisable at the end of the year

Option type

Scheme D

Outstanding
at January 1,
2014

Granted
during
the year

Exercised
during
the year

12,153,000

3,230,000

(2,328,000)

12,153,000

3,230,000

(2,328,000)

Lapsed or
cancelled
during the
year

—

—

Outstanding at
December 31,
2014

13,055,000

13,055,000

9,825,000

Outstanding
at January 1,
2013

16,281,000

16,281,000

Granted
during
the year

—

—

Exercised
during
the year

Lapsed or
cancelled
during the
year

Outstanding at
December 31,
2013

(4,103,000)

(25,000)

12,153,000

(4,103,000)

(25,000)

12,153,000

Exercisable at the end of the year

10,743,000

Details of the share options held by the directors included in the above table are as follows:

Outstanding
at January 1

Granted
during
the year

Exercised
during
the year

Lapsed during
the year

Outstanding at
December 31

2014

6,720,000

3,230,000

(1,250,000)

—

8,700,000

2013

Outstanding
at January 1

8,720,000

Granted
during
the year

Exercised
during
the year

Lapsed during
the year

Outstanding at
December 31

—

(2,000,000)

—

6,720,000

151

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48. Share Options (continued)

The following significant assumptions were used to derive the fair values using the Black-Scholes option pricing model:

Date of grant

For the year ended December 31, 2014
20.3.2014

Exercise price
HK$

Expected life
of share
options

Expected
volatility based
on historical
volatility of
share prices

Hong Kong
Exchange Fund
Notes rate

Expected
annual
dividend yield

21.600

3 years

41%

0.712%

1.5%

The share options are vested in parts over 3 years from the date of grant.

Expected volatility was determined by using the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the previous 3 years. The 
expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, 
exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.

The Black-Scholes option pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the volatility of the share 
price. Because changes in subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in the directors’ opinion, the 
existing model does not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of the share options.

The weighted average closing prices of shares immediately before the options grant date during 2014 was HK$20.40.

The closing price of the Company’s shares immediately before date of grant was HK$20.40 in 2014.

The weighted average closing prices of the Company’s shares immediately before various dates during 2014 and 2013 on which 
the share options were exercised were HK$24.59 and HK$18.22 respectively.

The Group recognised a total expense of US$1,436,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014 (2013: US$366,000) in relation to 
share options granted by the Company.

The fair value of the share options granted in 2014 measured at date of grant was HK$5.56 per option.

The Company had 13,055,000 share options outstanding, which represented approximately 0.71% of the issued share capital of 
the Company as at December 31, 2014. No option was cancelled during the year.

152

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
49. Share Award Scheme

The purpose of the share award scheme is to recognise the contributions by certain eligible persons and to provide them with 
incentives in order to retain them for the continual operation and development of the Group and to attract suitable personnel for 
further development of the Group.

The share award scheme of the Company was adopted by the Board of Directors on January 9, 2008. The Board may from time 
to time at their absolute discretion select any eligible person for participation in the scheme as a selected grantee and determine 
the number of shares to be awarded or make reference to a nominal amount. The Board must cause to be paid to the trustee the 
purchase price and the related expenses. The trustee must either purchase shares from the market or subscribe for new shares. 
The trustee must hold the shares until they are vested in accordance with the scheme rules. When the selected grantee has 
satisfied all vesting conditions specified by the board at the time of making the award and become entitled to the shares forming 
the subject of the award, the trustee will transfer the relevant vested shares together with the income derived therefrom (net of 
accrued interest) to the selected grantee.

An award of shares automatically lapses when, (i) a selected grantee who is an employee ceases to be an employee; or (ii) the 
subsidiary by which a selected grantee is employed ceases to be a subsidiary of the Company (or of a member of the Group); or 
(iii) a selected grantee who is a Director of the Company or a subsidiary ceases to be a director of the same; or (iv) an order for 
the winding-up of the Company is made or a resolution is passed (otherwise than for certain purposes) for the voluntary winding-
up of the Company, and, in any such case, the award, unless the Board otherwise agrees, automatically lapses forthwith and all 
the awarded shares and related income of such award do not vest on the relevant vesting date but become returned shares for the 
purpose of the scheme.

Recognition of share-based payment expenses under share award scheme during the year was US$282,000 (2013: nil). During 
2014, no shares (2013: nil) were transferred to the awardees upon vesting.

(i)  Movements in the number of awarded shares and their related average fair value were as follows:

At January 1, 2013 and December 31, 2013
Awarded (Note (a))

At December 31, 2014 (Note (b))

Notes:

Number

—
824,000

824,000

(a) 

All the awarded shares are purchased from the market. The vesting schedule of the awarded share spans three years, and one third of the grant vests 

each year.

(b) 

At the end of the year, the average fair value per share is HK$23.02. The average fair value of the awarded shares is based on the average purchase 

cost.

(ii) 

The remaining vesting periods of the awarded shares outstanding are as follows:

Less than 1 year
More than 1 year

2014
Number of
awarded
shares

274,500
549,500

824,000

153

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50. Capital Commitments

Capital expenditure in respect of the purchase of
  property, plant and equipment:

  Contracted for but not provided
  Authorised but not contracted for

The Group

The Company

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2013
US$’000

9,077
2,851

17,613
1,134

27
—

27
—

51. Related Party Transactions

During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions with its associates, which did not constitute connected 
transactions under Chapter 14A of the Listing Rules:

Sales income
Purchases
Acquisition of certain assets and business
Tenancy compensation

2014
US$’000

10,316
37
—
—

The remuneration of directors and other members of key management during the year was as follows:

Short-term benefits
Post-employment benefits
Share-based payments

2014
US$’000

42,844
348
1,718

44,910

2013
US$’000

4,730
858
4,621
2,000

2013
US$’000

34,377
214
365

34,956

Details of the balances and transactions with related parties are set out in the statements of financial position and Notes 21, 22, 
27, 28 and 47.

154

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
52. Particulars of Principal Subsidiaries

Particulars of the principal subsidiaries of the Company as at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 are as follows:

Name of subsidiary

AC (Macao Commercial
  Offshore) Limited

Place of
incorporation/
operation

Issued and
fully paid
share capital

Proportion of
nominal value of issued
capital held by the Company

Principal activities

Directly
%

Indirectly
%

Macau

MOP 780,000

Baja, Inc.

US

US$ 17.36

DreBo Werkzeugfabrik GmbH *

Germany

EUR 1,000,000

Homelite Consumer Products, Inc.

US

Hoover Inc.

US

US$ 10

US$ 1

Marco Polo Industries &
  Merchandising Company Limited

Hong Kong

HK$ 100,000

Milwaukee Electric Tool Corporation

US

US$ 50,000,000

One World Technologies, Inc.

US

US$ 10

Royal Appliance International GmbH

Germany

EUR 2,050,000

Royal Appliance Mfg. Co.

US

US$ 1

Sang Tech Industries Limited

Hong Kong

HK$ 1,000,000

Santo Industries Limited

Hong Kong

HK$ 2,000,000

Solar Wide Industrial Limited

Hong Kong

HK$ 2,000,000

75.725

—

—

—

—

—

100

—

—

100

—

100

100

100

Trading of power equipment,

floor care and outdoor power

  equipment products

100

100

100

Trading of outdoor power
  equipment products

Trading and manufacture of
  power equipment products

Trading of outdoor power
  equipment products

100

Trading and manufacture of

floor care products

—

100

100

—

100

—

—

—

Trading of household electronic
  and electrical products

Trading and manufacture of
  power equipment products

Trading of power equipment
  products

Trading of floor care products

Trading and manufacture of

floor care products

Manufacture of plastic parts

Manufacture of metallic parts

Manufacture of electronic products

155

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
52. Particulars of Principal Subsidiaries (continued)

Place of
incorporation/
operation

Issued and
fully paid
share capital

Proportion of
nominal value of issued
capital held by the Company

Principal activities

Directly
%

Indirectly
%

Name of subsidiary

Techtronic Floor Care
  Technology Limited

Techtronic Industries

(Dongguan) Co. Ltd.#

Techtronic Industries
(Taiwan) Co. Ltd.

BVI

PRC

US$ 1

US$ 47,000,000

Taiwan

NTD 5,000,000

Techtronic Industries (UK) Ltd

United Kingdom

GBP 4,000,000

Techtronic Industries Australia
  Pty. Limited

Techtronic Industries Central
  Europe GmbH*

Australia

AUD 25,575,762

Germany

EUR 25,600

Techtronic Industries ELC GmbH*

Germany

EUR 25,000

Techtronic Industries France SAS

France

EUR 14,919,832

Techtronic Industries GmbH

Germany

EUR 20,452,500

Techtronic Industries Korea Limited

Korea

KRW 1,200,000,000

Techtronic Industries Mexico,
  S.A. de C.V.

Mexico

MXN 50,000
(Serie I)
MXN53,290,717
(Serie II)

100

—

100

—

—

—

—

—

—

100

—

—

100

Investment and intellectual
  properties holding

Manufacture of power equipment, 
floor care and outdoor power

  equipment products

—

Provision of inspection services

100

100

100

100

100

100

—

Trading of power equipment
  products
Trading of power equipment,

floor care and outdoor power

  equipment products

Trading of power equipment
  products

Trading of power equipment
  products and outdoor power
  equipment products

Trading of power equipment
  products

Trading and manufacture of
  power equipment products

Trading of power equipment
  products

100

Trading of power equipment,

floor care and outdoor power

  equipment products

Techtronic Industries N.Z. Limited

New Zealand

NZD 4,165,500

100

—

Trading of power equipment,

floor care and outdoor power

  equipment products

156

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
52. Particulars of Principal Subsidiaries (continued)

Name of subsidiary

Place of
incorporation/
operation

Issued and
fully paid
share capital

Proportion of
nominal value of issued
capital held by the Company

Principal activities

Techtronic Industries North
  America, Inc.

US

Directly
%

98.4

US$ 10

Indirectly
%

1.6

Investment holding

Techtronic Outdoor Products
  Technology Limited

Bermuda

US$ 12,000

Techtronic Power Tools
  Technology Limited

BVI

Techtronic Product Development
  Limited

Hong Kong

Techtronic Trading Limited

Hong Kong

TTI Investments (Dongguan)
  Company Limited

Hong Kong

Vax Limited

United Kingdom

US$ 1

HK$ 2

HK$ 2

HK$ 2

GBP 30,000
(Ordinary A shares)
GBP 2,500
(Ordinary B shares)

* 

# 

Exempt from the obligation to publish local financial statements.

A wholly foreign owned enterprise.

100

100

100

100

100

100

—

—

—

—

—

—

Investment and intellectual
  properties holding

Investment and intellectual
  properties holding

Engage in research &
  development activities

Trading of power equipment,

floor care and outdoor power

  equipment products

Investment holding

Trading of household electrical 
  and floor care products

The above table lists the subsidiaries of the Company which, in the opinion of the directors, principally affected the results or 
assets of the Group. To give details of other subsidiaries would, in the opinion of the directors, result in particulars of excessive 
length.

157

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
52. Particulars of Principal Subsidiaries (continued)

At the end of the reporting period, the Company has other subsidiaries that are not material to the Group. The principal activities of 
these subsidiaries are summarised as follows:

Principal activities

Principal place of business

Number of subsidiaries

Manufacture of power equipment, floor care and
  outdoor power equipment products
Trading of power equipment, floor care and
  other power equipment product
Investment Holding
Dormant

Europe, Latin America, PRC, US

Canada, Europe, HK, Latin
  America, PRC, US
Australia, BVI, Europe, HK, US
BVI, Europe, HK, US

31/12/2014

31/12/2013

6

32

20
14

6

30

20
13

None of the subsidiaries had any debt securities outstanding at the end of the year, or at any time during the year.

53. Particulars of Principal Associate

Particulars of the principal associate is as follows:

Name of associate

Place of
incorporation/
operation

Issued and
fully paid
share capital

Proportion of
nominal value of
issued capital held by
the Company directly

Principal activities

Gimelli International
(Holdings) Limited

The Cayman Islands

US$ 6,250

2014
%

40.8

2013
%

40.8

Investment holding

158

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results

Year ended December 31,

2010
US$’000
(Restated)

2011
US$’000
(Restated)

2012
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

Turnover

3,382,838

3,667,058

3,852,418

4,299,755

4,752,960

Profit before restructuring, share of
results of associates and taxation

Restructuring costs
Share of results of associates

Profit before taxation
Taxation (charge) credit

Profit for the year

Attributable to:
  Owners of the Company
  Non-controlling interests

Profit for the year

Basic earnings per share (US cents)

Assets and Liabilities

Total assets
Total liabilities

Equity attributable to Owners of

the Company

Non-controlling interests

123,165
(26,653)
(155)

96,357
70

96,427

95,556
871

96,427

5.97

161,704
—
(347)

161,357
(9,242)

222,246
—
—

222,246
(22,139)

276,398
—
—

276,398
(29,036)

325,159
—
—

325,159
(25,680)

152,115

200,107

247,362

299,479

152,009
106

152,115

200,991
(884)

200,107

250,284
(2,922)

300,330
(851)

247,362

299,479

9.47

11.42

13.68

16.41

Year ended December 31,

2010
US$’000

3,265,912
2,136,205

2011
US$’000

3,369,616
2,115,488

2012
US$’000

3,581,078
2,024,556

2013
US$’000

4,012,559
2,267,123

2014
US$’000

4,351,383
2,384,357

1,129,707

1,254,128

1,556,522

1,745,436

1,967,026

1,114,759
14,948

1,245,576
8,552

1,548,877
7,645

1,740,713
4,723

1,967,153
(127)

1,129,707

1,254,128

1,556,522

1,745,436

1,967,026

159

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Financial Summary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Board of Directors

Group Executive Directors
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill
Chairman

Mr Joseph Galli Jr
Chief Executive Officer

Mr Patrick Kin Wah Chan
Mr Frank Chi Chung Chan
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Non-executive Director
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Independent Non-executive Directors
Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Financial Calendar 2015
March 18 
May 20 

: Announcement of 2014 annual results
: Last day to register for the entitlement to
  attend and vote at Annual General Meeting
: Book closure period for the entitlement to
  attend and vote at Annual General Meeting
: Annual General Meeting
: Last day to register for 2014 final dividend
: Book closure for 2014 final dividend
: Final dividend payment
: Six months interim period end
: Financial year end

May 21-22 

May 22 
May 28 
May 29 
June 26 
June 30 
December 31 

Investor Relations Contact
Investor Relations and Communications
Techtronic Industries Co. Ltd.
24/F., CDW Building
388 Castle Peak Road
Tsuen Wan, N.T.
Hong Kong
email: ir@tti.com.hk

Website
www.ttigroup.com
Earnings results, annual/interim reports are available online.

160

Listing Information
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
  Ordinary Shares (stock code: 669)
ADR Level 1 Programme (symbol: TTNDY)

Share Registrar and Transfer Office
Tricor Secretaries Limited
Level 22, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East
Hong Kong
Tel: (852) 2980 1888

ADR Depositary
The Bank of New York

Principal Bankers
Bank of America, N.A.
Bank of China
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
Standard Chartered Bank
Citibank, N.A.
The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.

Solicitors
Vincent T.K. Cheung, Yap & Co.

Auditor
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu

Company Secretary
Ms Veronica Ka Po Ng

Trademarks
“MILWAUKEE, DIAMOND PLUS, HOLE DOZER, HOLE HAWG,
  EMPIRE, FUEL, HACKZALL, INKZALL, M12, M12 FUEL, M18,
  M18 FUEL, SHOCKWAVE IMPACT DUTY, HOMELITE,
  18V ONE+ SYSTEM, ONE+, PHONE WORKS, HOOVER,
  FLOORMATE, DIRT DEVIL, LIFT & GO, VAX, AIR, ORECK,
  STILETTO, HART, INDEX, KOTTMANN, AIRWAVE, AIRSTRIKE”
  are trademarks of the TTI Group.

“AEG” is a registered trademark of AB Electrolux (publ) and
  is used by the TTI Group pursuant to a license granted
  by AB Electrolux (publ).

“RYOBI” is a registered trademark of Ryobi Limited and is used
  by the TTI Group pursuant to a license granted
  by Ryobi Limited.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2014Corporate Information 
 
Published by Techtronic Industries Co. Ltd.

© 2015 Techtronic Industries Co. Ltd.

www.ttigroup.com

