6th page proof

Annual Report 2013

Powerful Brands

InnovatIve Products

excePtIonal PeoPle 

oPeratIonal excellence

Contents

1 Financial Highlights

4  Chairman’s Statement

6  Chief Executive Officer’s Strategic Review

8 Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools Overview

10 Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools

26 Floor Care and Appliances Overview

28 Floor Care and Appliances

36 Board of Directors 

40 Management’s Discussion and Analysis

46 Corporate Governance Report

55 Report of the Directors

63 Independent Auditor’s Report

64 Consolidated Financial Statements

71 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

155 Financial Summary

156 Corporate Information

Record Sales 

Record Profits

Techtronic Industries Company Limited (the “Company” or “TTI”)  
is a world-class leader in design, manufacturing and marketing of  
Power Tools, Outdoor Power Equipment, and Floor Care and Appliances  
for consumers, professional and industrial users in the home improvement, 
repair and construction industries. Our unrelenting strategic focus on 
Powerful Brands, Innovative Products, Operational Excellence and 
Exceptional People drives our culture.

Our brands and products are recognized worldwide for their deep heritage, 
superior quality, outstanding performance and compelling innovation. 
Through a company-wide commitment to innovation and strong customer 
partnerships, we consistently deliver new products that enhance customer 
satisfaction and productivity. This focus and drive provides TTI with a 
powerful platform for sustainable leadership and strong growth.

Founded in 1985 in Hong Kong, TTI has a portfolio of industry leading 
brands, a worldwide customer reach, and over 18,000 staff. TTI is listed  
on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong and in 2013 had worldwide annual 
sales of USD4.3 billion.

Financial Highlights

Turnover

Gross profit margin

EBIT

Profit attributable to Owners of the Company

Basic earnings per share (US cents)

Dividend per share (approx. US cents) 

Record  
Free Cash Flow

2013
USDm

4,300

34.2%

304

250

13.68

3.06

2012
USDm

3,852

33.5%

260

201

11.42

2.25

Changes

+11.6% 

+70 bpt

+16.9%

+24.5%

+19.8%

+35.7%

Turnover 
USDm

Gross Profit Margin 
%

EBIT 
USDm

Basic Earnings per Share
US cents

11.6% 

70 bpt 

16.9% 

19.8% 

32.6

33.5

34.2

4,300

3,852

3,667

4,500

3,000

1,500

0

35

30

25

20

15

10

5

0

304

260

219

300

200

100

0

13.68

11.42

9.47

15

12

9

6

3

0

2011

2012

2013

2011

2012

2013

2011

2012

2013

2011

2012

2013

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

1

 Sales grew 11.6% to a record USD4.3 billion   Gross profit expanded 14.2% with a record margin   of 34.2%Financial Highlights

Record Sales 

Record Profits 

Sales by Business 

Sales by Location 

73.1% 

Power Equipment, 
Accessories and 
Hand Tools

26.9%

Floor Care and 
Appliances

72.6%  North America

20.2%  Europe

7.2% 

  Rest of the World

Turnover from Customers

North America
USDm

Europe
USDm

Rest of the World
USDm

11.2% 

3,120

2,807

2,648

3,500

3,000

2,500

2,000

1,500

1,000

500

0

2011

2012

2013

2

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

900

600

300

0

350

13.3% 

870

764

768

11.5% 

2011

2012

2013

310

277

255

0

350

300

250

200

150

100

50

0

2011

2012

2013

2011

2012

2013

Record Sales 

Record Profits 

Record  
Free Cash Flow

 Profit

USDm

 Free Cash Flow

USDm

24.5% 

250

250

200

150

100

50

0

201

152

2011

2012

2013

350

300

250

200

150

100

50

0

20.7% 

332

275

150

2011

2012

2013

 Working Capital
as % of sales

 Gearing Ratio

%

20

15

10

5

0

%

13.9% 

10.6% 

18.9

16.2

13.9

2011

2012

2013

60

40

20

0

59.3

25.8

10.6

2011

2012

2013

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

3

 Net profit increased to USD250 million, growing 24.5% Another strong year delivering free cash flow of USD332 million Working capital improved to 13.9% of sales  Gearing improved and was lowered from 25.8% to 10.6%Chairman’s Statement

“ TTI delivered another record year for sales, gross margin 

and profit in 2013. We are excited about our positive 
momentum and are well positioned to build on our record 
financial performance through our continued commitment 

to innovation and superior products. „

I am pleased to announce that TTI delivered 
another year of record sales, gross margin,  
and profit in 2013, building on our strong  
2012 performance. We achieved a number  
of financial milestones:

•	 Sales	grew	11.6%	to	a	record	USD4.3	billion

•	 All	business	segments	and	geographic	

regions delivered strong growth

•	 Gross	profit	expanded	14.2%	with	a	record	

margin of 34.2%

•	 Net	profit	increased	to	USD250	million,	

growing 24.5%

•	 Working	capital	improved	to	13.9%	of	sales

•	 Another	strong	year	delivering	free	cash	flow	

of USD332 million

A disciplined focus on our key strategic drivers 
is reflected in our financial performance and 
validates that our strategy is working. These  
four strategic drivers, having powerful brands, 
developing innovative products, building a 
strong company culture through exceptional 
people, and pursuing operational excellence, 
are precisely what we will do to continue 
delivering outstanding results.

Record Financial Performance 
Sales for the year ended December 31, 2013 
increased 11.6% over 2012 to USD4.3 billion 
as we continued investing in new products and 
driving organic growth. Sales of our largest 
business segments, Power Equipment, rose by 
9.8% to USD3.1 billion, accounting for 73.1% 
of total sales, against 74.4% in 2012. Floor Care 
and Appliance had a strong year on sales 
growth of 17.0% over 2012 to USD1.2 billion. 
We delivered double digit sales growth in all 
geographic regions. The acquisition of the 
powerful ORECK® brand in the second half of 
2013 further strengthened our global floor care 
portfolio and expanded our offering in the 
commercial and premium market segments. 

Our gross profit margin improved for the fifth 
consecutive year to 34.2% from 33.5% last year 
through the introduction of new products 
coupled with further productivity gains in our 
operations and sourcing. Cost improvement 
programs across our global operations delivered 
significant savings in purchasing, supply chain, 
value engineering, and manufacturing.  
In addition, we continue to invest in automation 
and lean manufacturing initiatives to improve 
both labor efficiency and overall productivity.

Earnings in 2013, before interest and taxes, 
increased by 16.9% to USD304 million, with 
the margin improving by 30 basis points to 
7.1%. We increased our strategic spending  
on research and development (R&D) to deliver 
our innovative new product road map across  
all categories and on marketing to successfully 
launch the new products. Our solid operational 
performance drove shareholders’ profits to rise 
by 24.5% to USD250 million, with earnings  
per share increasing by 19.8% over 2012  
to US13.68 cents. The higher sales and 
operational efficiency drove positive free cash 
flow to a record USD332 million. We continued 
to improve the management of our working 
capital and lowered our gearing, reducing it 
from 25.8% at the end of 2012, to 10.6%  
in 2013.

Powerful Brands &  
Innovative Products
We have the best brand portfolio in our 
industries with market leading brands like 
MILWAUKEE®, RYOBI®, HOMELITE®, AEG®, 
HOOVER®, DIRT DEVIL®, VAX®, and recently 
acquired ORECK®. The centerpiece of our 
growth strategy is the sustainable development 
of innovative new products bringing  
break-through technology, Lithium cordless 
platforms, and broad-based new product 
ranges to end-users. Our continuing success 

4

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

DELIvERING oUTSTANDING PERFoRMANCE

flows from our ability to develop and produce 
innovative products, with about one third of  
our 2013 sales coming from new products.

Another strategic initiative driving our industry 
leading position is the expansion of our 
presence in under-represented geographic 
markets. We have worked to grow our business 
in high potential markets around the world, 
seizing opportunities to drive the strategic 
deployment of our brands. We are expanding 
globally and our products are employing even 
more advanced technology as we continue 
investing in R&D.

operational Excellence & 
Exceptional People
The performance in 2013 confirms that our 
continuous improvement initiatives, world class 
manufacturing, global purchasing, and value 
engineering programs are delivering efficiencies 
and driving innovation. We continue to increase 
our productivity levels to adapt to the growth in 
demand while offsetting inflationary pressures. 
Our lean production is driven by our efforts to 
reduce waste with programs like Kaizen events 
and cellular manufacturing. This lean focus 
coupled with intelligent use of automation  
frees resources for the most efficient production 
possible. Our commitment to operational 
excellence and continuous improvement is 
driven by well-established processes and 
dedicated employees and has permeated all  
of our business units. 

The strength of our management team is an 
important driver of our successes. Recruiting, 
developing, and retaining great talent has 
become part of our culture. Each of our 
business units is building and fostering an 
outstanding team of current and future leaders. 
As our results demonstrate, TTI’s management 
keeps the Company on the leading edge of  
the industry. 

A Bright outlook
TTI is revolutionizing the way professionals  
and consumers tackle projects at home and  
on the job site. We are doing this through  
our commitment to innovation, continually 
engineering superior products that make life 
easier for consumers and work easier for 
professionals. The result is powerful growth  
and the delivery of excellent year-over-year 
financial results. But this is just the beginning. 

In the years to come we will continue to 
innovate and respond to the evolving needs of 
our consumers, positioning TTI for continued 
strong financial performance over the long term. 
We are excited about our positive momentum 
and are well positioned to build on our record 
financial performance.

I would like to thank our loyal customers and 
business partners for their ongoing support,  
our dedicated and passionate employees whose 
hard work helps us realize our vision each year, 
our shareholders for their commitment to TTI, 
and our board of directors for its ongoing 
strategic contributions. Our shared success  
is the result of a true team effort.

Horst Julius Pudwill
Chairman
March 19, 2014

Dividend per Share
US cents

35.7% 

3.06

2.25

2012

2013

Basic Earnings per Share
US cents

19.8% 

13.68

11.42

3

2

1

0

15

10

5

0

2012

2013

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

5

Chief Executive officer’s Strategic Review

STRATEGIC DRIvERS
•	 Powerful	Brands
•	 Innovative	Products
•	 Exceptional	People
•	 Operational	Excellence

STRATEGIC RoADMAP
•	 Drive	Sales	Growth	
•	 Gross	Margin	Enhancement
•	 Organizational	Development
•	 Operating	Cycle	Development
•	 Generate	Free	Cash	Flow

At TTI we are highly focused on our strategic 
drivers: powerful brands, innovative products, 
exceptional people, and operational excellence. 
These are the keys to our continued growth  
and success. This strategic foundation is driving  
our business to record levels by empowering 
our people to create cutting edge products.  
It is our innovative technology in breakthrough 
new products like the MILWAUKEE® FUEL® line 
that are transforming the power tool industry. 
Our relentless focus on applying Lithium 
cordless technology to new categories in  
power tools, outdoor products, and floor care 
are revolutionizing these businesses.  
Our management team is committed to 
continue to tap the full potential of our 
business. We refuse to settle for anything  
less than being the best.

New Product Machine
Our new product development system is  
a rigorous process that ensures high quality, 
game changing, and innovative products.  
We are producing a continuous stream of  
new products that excite end-users, overwhelm 
the competition, and change the respective 
industries. TTI invests heavily in product 
development and 2013 was no exception  
with research and development (R&D) 
spending up 34.7% to 2.5% of sales, a very 
sustainable level for us. 

Our new product development system is central 
to our growth:

Commitment to the end-user: We work closely 
with our end-users to understand their needs, 
lifestyles, habits, and frustrations in search of 
product solutions. We intensely study our users, 
our industries, and our competitors in search of 
opportunities to deliver better products.

Innovation: We convert end-user frustrations 
and problems into demonstrative solutions with 
our innovative, high performance products.  
We often make bold decisions to re-invent  
our products to deliver better solutions to  
our users. We are pioneering new technology 
applications through our R&D efforts across  
our product categories and continuing to 
innovate across all categories. We are investing 
strategically in our engineering capabilities  
to integrate our advanced technologies into  
our products.

Speed-to-market: We have created a powerful, 
streamlined, fast paced, and comprehensive 
product development process. TTI has  
a number of brand focused innovation centers 
in key markets dedicated to research,  
design, engineering technologies, and 
developing new products. Across our brands 
and innovation centers we drive product 
development through our high speed process  
to bring a broad range of breakthrough, value 
added, margin enhancing products to market.

We are striving to change our industries through 
innovation and are delivering on that.

Developing Great People
TTI has assembled an outstanding team of 
people. Our business unit leaders are industry 
veterans with exceptional track records and  
a passion for serving our customers.  
Across the organization we have the best people 
in our industries, with a good blend of company 
veterans and emerging young talent with  
fresh ideas. We will continue to develop  
our employees worldwide to support  
our growth goals.

6

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

•	 Drive	Sales	Growth	

•	 Gross	Margin	Enhancement

•	 Organizational	Development

•	 Operating	Cycle	Development

•	 Generate	Free	Cash	Flow

A BoLD vISIoN oF GRoWTH
Growth initiatives that will capture opportunities 
generated by our business across the globe

Deliver Break-Through, Disruptive Technology 

Lithium ion Cordless Leadership

Broad-Based Innovative Products

Aggressive Marketing, Demand Creation

Target Geographic Expansion

Floor Care Transformation

Drive operational Productivity

Global organizational Development

Success and leadership are driven by great 
products and great people. We prove that  
every day at TTI. They are truly a powerful 
combination.

In closing, I would like to thank our visionary 
Chairman, Horst Pudwill, for his tremendous 
mentorship, support, and guidance throughout 
our record breaking 2013 year. Horst’s powerful 
presence is extremely motivating to me and  
is critical to our company’s success.

Our Leadership Development Program (LDP)  
is thriving. For this program we recruit  
high-potential graduates from top universities 
and focus on training, mentoring, and 
promoting them. We have hired more than 
1,000 LDPs with many becoming leaders  
within the organization and a number serving  
in international positions. We are committed to 
hiring the best and promoting them from within. 
The program is highly successful and has  
been	expanded	from	North	America	into 	
Europe, Asia, Latin America, and Australia.  
This international group of future TTI leaders  
is flourishing in sales, marketing, product 
management, supply chain management, 
engineering, and other important positions.  
Our commitment to the LDP enables TTI  
to develop exceptional leaders to support  
our business goals.

TTI strives to have a universal culture of 
empowerment and creativity that motivates 
people to achieve their goals and reach their 
potential quickly. We provide a focused, 
strategic road map, strong financial backing, 
clear leadership direction, and a high energy 
environment that allows our employees to learn, 
contribute, and grow. We place people in 
positions that expand their scope of 
responsibility, positioning them to succeed  
and deliver results. TTI’s employees are  
driven and are rewarded with an exciting  
career if they are passionate about achieving 
results and being part of a successful team. 

With such an array of focused, motivated,  
and outstanding people, TTI will continue to 
outperform the competition and change  
our industries.

Joseph Galli Jr
Chief Executive Officer
March 19, 2014

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

7

Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools overview

RYoBI® 40-voLT 24” 
CoRDLESS HEDGE 
TRIMMER

RYOBI®	takes	cordless	technology	to	the	next	level	
with	the	new	40-volt	lithium	ion	Outdoor	Series. 	
Designed	for	the	perfect	marriage	of	power	and	
convenience,	this	hedge	trimmer	is	powered	 
by	a	40-volt	lithium	ion	battery.	That	means	 
fade-free	performance,	maximum	power,	and	
maximum	runtime.	

Power Equipment & Accessories

Industrial

Professional

Consumer	&	Trade

8

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

Sales by Business

73.1%

Power Equipment, 
Accessories and 
Hand Tools

26.9%

Floor	Care	and	
Appliances

The	Power	Equipment	business	is	our	largest	division	 
and	consists	of	power	tools,	hand	tools,	outdoor	products	
and	accessories.	In	2013,	sales	in	this	business	rose	by	
9.8%	to	a	record	USD3.1	billion.	We	delivered	growth	in	
all	geographic	markets	and	reported	strong	results	in	our	
industrial	division.	The	business	accounted	for	73.1%	of	
Group	turnover,	against	74.4%	in	2012.	Earnings	grew	
14.2%	to	USD261	million	on	new	products,	operational	
efficiency,	and	supply	chain	productivity.	

Hand Tools

outdoor

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

9

Power	Equipment,	Accessories	and	Hand	Tools
Industrial Power Tools

™

Delivering	unmatched	performance,	the	M18	FUEL™	
line	features	three	MILWAUKEE®-exclusive	innovations:	 
the	POWERSTATE™	Brushless	Motor,	REDLITHIUM™	
Battery	Pack	and	REDLINK	PLUS™	Intelligence	
Hardware	and	Software.	The	result	is	cordless	tools	
with	unrivaled	power,	run-time	and	durability.

Our	mission	in	cordless	design	is	to	introduce	new	solutions	that	make	
tradesmen	on	the	jobsite	more	productive.	Working	side-by-side	with	 
users	during	the	design	and	testing	process	gives	us	the	ability	to	deliver	
game-changing	solutions.

Products and Technology

End-Users

Products
•		Cordless	Power	Tools,	Corded	Power	Tools,	Test	&	Measurement	 

diagnostic equipment

Cordless Platforms
•		Lithium-Ion	batteries	M12®, M18®, M28® REDLITHIUM™

Technology
•		State-of-the-art	motor	technology	–	POWERSTATE™	Brushless	Motor

•		Advanced	electronics	–	REDLINK	PLUS™	Intelligence

•		Up	to	2X	more	run-time,	20%	more	power,	and	2X	more	 

recharges	–	REDLITHIUM™	Batteries	

10

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

•		Mechanical,	electrical,	plumbing,	remodeling	and	maintenance	 

repair professionals

Distribution

•		Home	Center	channels,	Hardware,	Industrial	MRO,	Plumbing,	Electrical,	

Farm and Agriculture, Construction and Automotive channels

M18® 2-SPEED GREASE GUN

Delivering maximum performance and 
unmatched precision, this new Grease Gun 
delivers up to 10,000psi operating pressure 
and features a new-to-world pre-set grease 
counter to dispense exact amounts of grease.

M18® LED FLooD LIGHT

Delivering best-in-class light output, functionality and 
durability, the new light features eight powerful LEDs to 
provide 30% brighter light output and better illuminate 
large work spaces for maximum productivity.

®

TM

®

TM

NExT GENERATIoN DRILLING  
& FASTENING TooLS

MILWAUKEE® continues to deliver best-in-class 
solutions with upgrades to key products.  
New	models	introduced	this	year	will	 
feature improved ergonomics and  
increased performance.

North	America

International

M18® JoBSITE RADIo/CHARGER

The M18® Jobsite Radio/Charger is the first 
charging radio to bring the power of Bluetooth®* 
to the jobsite. Delivering the industry’s best 
reception and sound, it lets you stream wireless 
audio from over 100 feet away. Equipped with  
a reinforced roll cage to protect against harsh 
conditions, this radio allows you to charge  
your M18® batteries, or any other devices  
you need via USB port.

* BLUETOOTH is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG, Inc.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

11

Power	Equipment,	Accessories	and	Hand	Tools
Accessories

High Performance. 
Breakthrough Productivity.

Our	mission	for	Power	Tool	Accessories	is	to	deliver	breakthrough	 
innovations	that	solve	jobsite	problems	and	make	our	core	users	more	
productive.	We	are	committed	to	pushing	the	limits	of	performance	through	
investments	in	disruptive	manufacturing	technologies	and	creative	designs.	
Our	new	product	efforts	produce	visually	differentiated	attributes	that	
reinforce	a	demonstrable	performance	advantage	vs.	our	competition.

Products and Technology

Products
•	 Saw	blades	and	hole	saws	

•		Fastening	accessories

•	 Masonry	drilling	and	demolition	

•		Wood	boring	bits

•	 Metal	drill	bits	and	cutters

Technologies
•		Engineered	sawing	tooth	forms	including	Nail	Guard™	and	Double	Duty™

•		Shockwave™	Impact	Duty	driving	technologies

•		Switchblade™	wood	boring	replacement	blade	system

•		Proprietary	high	speed	steel	heat	treating	including	Ice	Hardened™

12

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

DIAMoND PLUS™ 
HoLE SAWS 

Engineered to stand up to the 
hardest, most abrasive materials 
on the jobsite. The new diamond 
grit hole saw utilizes a higher 
grade of diamonds and 
heat-resistant braze to deliver 
best-in-class performance of  
up to 10X longer life.

JAM-FREE PERFoRMANCE

STEP BITS

Optimized for cordless drills running at high speeds,  
Step Bits offer jam-free performance and up to 4X longer life.

DoUBLE DUTY UPGRADE™

DoUBLE DUTY UPGRADE™ THIN KERF

These blades are ideal for making fast, flexible cuts. 
Maintaining a short profile and thin body, these blades feature 
a special tooth form optimized for long life and speed. 

DoUBLE DUTY UPGRADE™ THE ToRCH™

These blades are ideal for tough, straight cuts. The teeth are 
optimized for maximum life and durability. The Grid Iron™ 
honeycomb pattern greatly increases the blade’s rigidity, 
making it the stiffest metal cutting SAWZALL® on the market. 

SHoCKWAvE™ ExPAND

This unique line helps users boost their productivity while 
lightening their load. With SHOCKWAVE™ Expand users can pair 
Insert Bits and Bit Holders with their tools to create 100’s of 
different impact combinations.

X4

LIFE *

UP TO

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

13

Power	Equipment,	Accessories	and	Hand	Tools
Hand Tools

Ultimate Productivity. 
Superior Performance.

With	over	100	new	tools	in	2013,	we’re	continuously	expanding	our	 
Hand	Tool	line.	Dedicated	to	delivering	solutions	to	increase	productivity,	
the	Hand	Tool	group	focuses	on	providing	application-specific	features	to	
the	electrical,	mechanical,	HVAC,	MRO	and	remodeling	trades.

Products and Technology

Products
•		Cutting	and	Fastening		

•		Layout	

•		Screwdriving	

•		Knives

•		Tape	Measures

•		Blades

•		Saws

Technologies
•		Tape	measure	nylon	bond	blade	protection	 

for up to 10X longer life

•		Micro	carbide	dispersed	metal	utility	blades	 

for up to 3X longer life

•		Jobsite	Stylist	Marker

Platforms
•		FASTBACK™, FASTBACK™	Utility	Knives,	Hollow-Core	Nut	
Drivers, INKzALL™ Jobsite Markers, Torque Locking Pliers

14

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

1000-voLT INSULATED 
SCREWDRIvERS 

Our UL®* Classified Screwdrivers are 1000-volt 
rated, providing best-in-class safety for users working  
on energized and high-voltage equipment.

MAGNETIC TAPE MEASURES

This innovative tool features 10X the life of leading competitors. 
Each Tape Measure is outfitted with user-inspired enhancements 
like a finger stop for protection during blade retraction, as well as 
dual magnets that prevent rollover when measuring.

HAND CLAMPS

Featuring a revolutionary smooth  
action clamp and release mechanism, 
it offers up to 2X the clamping force of  
other ratcheting hand clamps.

FASTBACK™ KNIvES

Designed to activate 3X faster than two-handed 
opening, FASTBACK™ knives open easily with 
the press of a button and a flip of the wrist.

* UL is a registered trademark of Underwriters Laboratories Inc.

LoCKING PLIERS

This tool was inspired by our customers. Using 
a screwdriver, workers are able to turn the 
Torque Lock™ key to fix the pliers into place, 
with the desired torque.

INKZALL™ JoBSITE 
MARKERS

Features a clog-resistant tip 
that will write on dusty, oily or 
wet surfaces, or a stylus tip 
for use with mobile devices.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013
Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

15

Power	Equipment,	Accessories	and	Hand	Tools
Hand Tools

STILETTo® HAMMERS

STILETTo® FIBERGLASS HAMMERS

With exceptional design and best-in-class 
materials, STILETTO® Hammers are the lightest, 
most innovative high-performance hammers 
available today.

With an 18” Poly/Fiberglass handle and 14oz 
Titanium Head, the STILETTO® Fiberglass Hammer 
provides increased strength and the driving power 
of a 24oz Steel Hammer. The straight claw design 
and magnetic nail starter allow for better nail pulling 
and one handed, easy start nails.

STILETTo® PRY BARS

The multi-fulcrum design of STILETTO® Pry 
Bars provides maximum leverage during 
prying applications.

STILETTo® NAIL PULLERS

STILETTO®	Nail	Pullers	feature	an	innovative	
dimpler which allows for the clean removal 
of nails without splitting the wood grain.

STILETTO®	sets	the	standard	with	premium	Titanium	hand	
tools	and	hammers	that	are	45%	lighter	than	steel,	while	
providing	the	same	striking	force	and	strength.	In	addition,	
Titanium	tools	produce	10X	less	recoil	shock,	which	means	
less	down	time	due	to	injury,	more	productivity	and	most	
importantly	less	pain	while	getting	the	job	done.

Products and Technology 
Products
•	 Hammers,	Lath	&	Drywall	Axes,	Nail	Pullers,	 

Pry Bars and Air Grips

Technology
•	 Patented:	Titanium	Construction,	180	Degree	Side	Nail	
Pullers, Replaceable Faces, Staple Pullers and Dimplers

End-Users
•	 A	variety	of	tradesmen	including	carpenters,	masons,	

demolition workers and remodelers 

Distribution
•	 Home	centers,	hardware	stores	and	lumber	yards

16
16

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013
Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

HART® HAMMERS

Preferred choice of framing contractors 
because of the many Signature features 
such as the magnetic nail set and the  
angled drive face.

HART® PRY AND 
MoLDING BARS

Make nail and molding removal 
easy with the forged 15” Pry Bar 
and 4-in-1 Molding Bar. 

HART® 3.5lbs AxE

The HART® 3.5lbs Axe is equipped with  
an arsenal of Signature Features including 
Face Cutouts, a Forged Head, SureGrip™ 
overmold, and much more. 

HART® 12lbs SLEDGE HAMMER

Power through demolition 44% more efficiently with  
the patented PowerStrike™ face Signature Feature. 

HART®	products	focus	on	delivering	innovative	Signature	Features	
such	as	exceptional	weight	balance	ratio,	polished	hammer	heads,	
progressive	angled	face	hammer	designs,	side	nail	pulls,	forged	heads	
and	PowerStrike™	faces.	In	addition,	HART®	Tools	are	designed	and	
built	to	withstand	the	rigors	of	a	Professional	Jobsite.	HART®’s	line	 
of	innovative	products	assure	you	that	NOTHING	HITS	HARDER™.	

Products and Technology 
Products
•		Hammers,	Sledges,	Mattocks,	Wedges,	Pry	Bars,	Chisels,	Axes	and	Mauls

Technology
•		Hammer	Side	Nail	Pull,	Angled	Strike	Face	and	Magnetic	Nail	Set

•		Sledge	Hammer	PowerStrike™	Face

•		Mattocks	PowerFin	Design

End-Users
•		Professionals	and	Do-It-Yourselfers

Distribution
•		Home	Centers	and	Hardware	Stores

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013
Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

17
17

Power	Equipment,	Accessories	and	Hand	Tools
Professional Power Tools

AEG® 18-voLT  
LITHIUM IoN HAMMER
The	AEG®	18-volt	lithium	ion	compact	hammer	
drill	has	a	new	powerful	new	frameless	motor 	 
that	delivers	70Nm	maximum	torque	with	 
a	24	stage	torque	adjustment	for	complete 	
control	and	a	3	mode	selector	of	ease	of 	 
control	between	applications.	It	is	powered	 
by	AEG®	PRO	LITHIUM	ION™	battery	technology	
with	overload	protection	for	maximum	durability	 
of	battery	and	tool.

The	AEG®	power	tools	brand	has	been	delivering	high-performance	tools	since	1898.	
115	years	later	and	nothing	has	changed,	AEG®	Power	Tools	continues	to	push	
boundaries	and	innovate	with	a	current	focus	on	the	cordless	sector,	harnessing	
lithium	ion	power	as	well	a	myriad	of	traditional	but	highly	innovative	corded	tools.

Products and Technology 

Products
•		Cordless	and	Corded	Power	Tools

Cordless Platforms
•		PRO	LITHIUM	ION™	Cordless	System	12-volt	14.4-volt	and	18-volt

•		OMNIPRO® MULTITOOL system with interchangeable heads

•		Cordless	and	Corded	Power	Tools,	and	support	accessories

End-Users

•		Professional	tradesmen,	Contractors

Distribution

•		Professional	/	Traditional	trade	and	wholesale	distribution

•		Professional	section	of	Modern	channels	and	Home	Centers

18

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

18-voLT LITHIUM IoN PoWER TooLS

AEG®’s cordless 18-volt offering continues to expand, with  
a	particular	focus	on	PRO	LITHIUM	ION™	cordless	battery	
technology delivering improved power output and run-time.

™

LATEST BATTERY TECHNoLoGY

The second generation cordless technology of AEG®	PRO	LITHIUM	ION™	
technology, guarantees users receive more run-time, longer life and overall more 
productivity. The triple protection system protects the battery cells from over-heating, 
over loading, and over/under charging, offering optimum performance at all levels. 
The new 2Ah & 4Ah batteries are available in 12V and 18V versions.

TRADESMAN

The tradesman drill drivers and hammer drill drivers have all 
the features required for todays professional end users. Across 
12-volt, 14.4-volt and 18-volt platforms.

MASTER oF ALL TRADES

OMNIPRO® is a revolutionary system allowing users to 
tailor their system depending on application. The system 
comes with a wide variety of heads ready to tackle almost 
any challenge. The body comes in three different 
versions,	12V	–	designed	for	ergonomics,	18V	–	for	power	
&	control	and	an	AC	version	–	ideal	for	long	run	times.

18V	–	BEST	FOR	POWER			

12V	–	BEST	FOR	ERGONOMICS	

AC	–	BEST	FOR	RUNTIME	

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

19

Power	Equipment,	Accessories	and	Hand	Tools
Consumer and Trade Power Tools

RYoBI® 18-voLT NAILER
Cordless	convenience	featuring	 
AIRSTRIKE™	Technology,	which	eliminates	
the	need	for	noisy	compressors,	bulky	 
hoses	or	expensive	gas	cartridges.

RYOBI®	offers	the	most	extensive	award	winning	and	innovative	line	of	
consumer	focused	products	and	accessories	for	worldwide	use.	The	RYOBI® 
power	tool	range	is	anchored	by	the	18-volt	ONE+	SYSTEM®	of	over	 
50	products,	ranging	from	drills,	drivers,	saws	and	trimmers	to	sanders.

Products and Technology 

Products
•		Cordless	and	Corded	Power	Tools

•	 Power	Tool	Accessories

Technology
•	 18-volt	ONE+	SYSTEM®

•	 Lithium	ion	&	LITHIUM+®

•	 AIRSTRIKE™	

Accessory Technology
•	 SPEEDLOAD+®

•  Universal Shank Jig Saw Blades

End-Users

•		Do-It-Yourself	and	Cost	Conscious	Professionals

Distribution

•	 Home	Centers	and	Hardware	stores

20

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

RYoBI® 18-voLT oNE+ SYSTEM®

of	over	50+	tools	lets	you	buy	18-volt	cordless	
tools, batteries and chargers individually,  
in any combination and order you choose. 

RYoBI® 18-voLT oNE+® AIRSTRIKE™ 

The	ONE+®	Brad	Nailer,	Finish	Nailer	and	Narrow	
Crown Stapler features AIRSTRIKE™ Technology, which 
eliminates the need for noisy compressors, bulky hoses 
or expensive gas cartridges. This means faster setup 
and easier maneuvering on the job site or at home.

RYoBI® 18-voLT oNE+® LITHIUM+® 
HIGH CAPACITY BATTERY

Next	generation	LITHIUM+® technology  
provides the end user with the best value and 
performance proposition in the marketplace.

RYoBI® 18-voLT oNE+® 6PC 
LITHIUM+® ULTIMATE CoMBo KIT

The ultimate power tool collection,  
powered by the next generation  
of lithium ion performance.

RYoBI® JIG SAW BLADES
The Universal Shank Jig Saw Blades are the first  
of a kind market innovation. The blades are  
designed with U and T shank capability which  
takes the guesswork out of jig saw blade selection.

North	America

Europe

Australia	&	New	zealand

RYoBI® 18-voLT oNE+® oRBITAL  
JIG SAW

The	ONE+® Orbital Jig Saw provides the user with corded 
like performance and features the patented BLADESAVER™ 
technology. BLADESAVER™, a first-to-market innovation, 
features a drop base design that allows users to adjust the 
base to utilize unused teeth, resulting in optimal blade use.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

21

Power	Equipment,	Accessories	and	Hand	Tools
outdoor Products

RYoBI® 40-voLT LITHIUM IoN SYSTEM

The RYOBI® 40-volt lithium ion system introduced four new tools providing 
Gas-Like Power. The 40-volt System powers nine tools using the same 
40-volt battery. The lithium ion battery delivers powerful performance  
and is quiet and convenient. 

RYoBI® 40-voLT  
LITHIUM IoN BATTERY

The first to take lithium ion 
outdoors, RYOBI® introduced its 
most powerful battery ever with 
the 40-volt lithium ion. It delivers 
fade-free power and longer run 
time to over nine 40-volt tools.

RYoBI® 40-voLT-x ExPAND-IT®
STRING TRIMMER

RYOBI®	40-volt-X	EXPAND-IT® String Trimmer  
is going to revolutionize the market. This  
trimmer delivers gas-like power and  
accepts gas attachments.

RYOBI®	brand	has	invested	years	of	research	into	bringing	the	high-performance	
36-volt	and	40-volt	lithium	ion	cordless	tools	to	the	market.	The	36-volt	and	 
40-volt	lines	include	string	trimmers,	hedge	trimmers,	edgers,	blowers,	 
chain	saws,	and	mowers.

Products and Technology 

End-Users

•	 Do-It-Yourself	home	owners	and	garden	enthusiasts

Distribution

•	 Home	Centers,	Garden	Centers	and	Hardware	Stores

Products
•		Gas	and	Electric	Powered	Trimmers,	Blowers,	Chainsaws,	Hedge	Trimmers,	

Lawn Mowers, Pressure Washers and Generators

Cordless Technology
•	 4-volt,	18-volt,	36-volt	&	40-volt	lithium	ion	Systems,	Brushless	Motor	
Technology increases efficiency and optimizes performance of the tool

Accessory Technology
•	 EXPAND-IT® Attachments

22

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

RYoBI® 18-voLT LITHIUM IoN SYSTEM
RYoBI® 40 voLT LITHIUM-IoN SYSTEM
There	are	more	than	50	great	items	in	the	18-volt	ONE+	
The RYOBI 40V Lithion-ion system introduced four new tools providing 
SYSTEM® since 1996.  All work with any RYOBI® 18-volt 
Gas-Like Power. The 40V System powers 9 tools using the same 40-volt 
tool and are compatible with any RYOBI® 18-volt battery.
battery. The lithium-ion battery delivers powerful performance and is quiet 
and convenient. 

RYoBI® 18-voLT oNE+® HEDGE TRIMMER

Lightweight	and	easy	to	operate,	the	18-volt	ONE+® Hedge 
Trimmer features a dual-action blade, for less vibration and 
increased user comfort.

RYoBI® 18-voLT LITHIUM IoN BATTERIES

RYOBI® 18-volt lithium ion batteries are lighter, have up to  
4	times	longer	run	times	than	NiCad	batteries,	Eco	Options	
certified and work in over 50 RYOBI®	18-volt	ONE+® tools.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

23

RYoBI®18-voLT oNE+® HYBRID TooLS 

RYOBI® introduces a revolution in outdoor  
power	–	the	only	one	in	the	marketplace	 
offering Hybrid technology. Dual-power  
with a battery or corded connection  
for limitless power  
and mobility.

Power	Equipment,	Accessories	and	Hand	Tools
outdoor Products

RYoBI® INvERTER GENERAToR

When you need power at the job-site the RYOBI® 2200W Quiet Inverter Generator is ready  
with clean, quiet power that won’t harm sensitive electronics.  

RYoBI® GAS PRoDUCTS 

The RYOBI® line of 2-cycle  
and 4-cycle gas hand-held  
products deliver power  
and versatility.  

RYoBI® PRESSURE WASHERS 

RYOBI® pressure washers are designed with  
one	goal	in	mind	–	to	help	our	consumers	 
clean better and clean faster.

RYOBI®	gas	products	deliver	powerful	performance	technology	
across	its	2-cycle	and	4-cycle	platforms.	Products	include	string	
trimmers,	hedge	trimmers,	blowers,	chainsaws,	wheeled	
trimmers,	pressure	washers	and	generators.

Products and Technology 

End-Users

•	 Do-It-Yourself	home	owners	and	garden	enthusiasts

Distribution

•	 Home	Centers,	Garden	Centers	and	Hardware	Stores

Products
•		Gas	Trimmers,	Blowers,	Chainsaws,	Hedge	Trimmers,	Lawn	Mowers,	 

Log Splitters, Pressure Washers and Generators

Gas Technology
•	 2-Cycle	&	4-Cycle

Accessory Technology
•	 EXPAND-IT® Attachments

24

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

HoMELITE® CHAINSAWS

HOMELITE® offers a value-driven selection of homeowner chainsaws that 
weigh in at less than 10lbs, but still carry a big bite. 

HoMELITE® 
ELECTRICS

The full range of HOMELITE® 
electric outdoor tools deliver 
simple, dependable 
performance.

HoMELITE® 
PRESSURE WASHERS 

HOMELITE®’s line of entry level  
gas pressure washers deliver 
maximum power and  
incredible reliability at  
reasonable prices.

HOMELITE®	Consumer	Products	manufactures	a	full	line	of	Outdoor	
Power	Equipment	including	string	trimmers,	blowers,	chainsaws,	
hedge	trimmers,	pressure	washers,	generators	and	outdoor	
accessories	for	the	consumer,	do-it-yourself	and	garden	enthusiast.

Products and Technology 

End-Users

Products
•		Gas	and	Electric	Powered	Trimmers,	Blowers,	Chainsaws,	Hedge	Trimmers,	

Lawn Mowers, Log Splitters, Pressure Washers, Generators

•		Home	owners	and	garden	enthusiasts

Distribution

Technology
•		HOMELITE® products are designed to provide consumers great 

performance at an incredible value.

•		Home	Centers,	Garden	Centers	and	Hardware	Stores

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

25

Floor Care and Appliances overview

WE REMovED THE 
CoRD BUT KEPT 
EvERYTHING ELSE.

It’s	a	simple	change	that	changes	everything.	
LITHIUMLIFE™	battery	technology	provides	 
50	minutes*	of	runtime	with	no	plugs	required.	
Now	get	the	power	of	a	HOOVER®	upright	–	 
set	free.

®

* on average on carpet and hard floors using two batteries

Premium Cleaning

Commercial

26

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

®

Sales by Business

26.9%

Floor Care and 
Appliances

73.1%

Power	Equipment,	
Accessories	and	
Hand	Tools

Floor Care and Appliances had a successful year.  
The business realigned its cost base to increase efficiencies, 
and invested significantly in product development and 
marketing. The result was a significant increase in sales 
and margin improvement. We generated sales growth of 
17.0% over 2012 to USD1.2 billion with double digit growth  
in all geographic markets. Profitability moved higher on positive 
contributions from new product launches, the reorganization  
of our operations, and cost improvements. The business 
accounted for 26.9% of group turnover against 25.6% in 2012. 

High-Performance

Consumer

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

27

Floor	Care	and	Appliances

AIR® CoRDLESS
Finally,	a	full-size	cordless	vacuum	that	can	
clean	your	whole	home.	Built	on	the	strong	
foundation	of	the	AIR®	range	of	products	 
and	powered	by	LITHIUMLIFE™	batteries,	
AIR®	Cordless	provides	full	upright	power	 
and	capacity,	with	a	50-minute*	runtime	 
and	an	ultra-light	9.9lbs	frame.

®

Lift deep down messes. Three channels of suction lift and 
remove surface debris and deep down embedded dirt. 
Vacuums	without	WINDTUNNEL® Technology rely on only 
one channel of suction.

* on average on carpet and hard floors using two batteries

Products and Technology 

Products
•	 Upright	–	Bagged	and	Bagless

•	 Canister	–	Bagged	and	Bagless

•	 Stick

•	 Lithium	ion	Cordless

•	 Handheld	Vacuums

•	 Carpet	Washers	and	Solutions

•	 Hard	Floor	Cleaners	and	Solutions

28

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

HOOVER®	is	creating	the	future	of	Floor	Care.	We	recognize	that	people’s	
homes	and	lives	are	constantly	evolving,	and	we’re	changing	with	them.	 
We	are	proud	that	each	of	the	700	patents	we	currently	hold	represents	a	
challenge	we’ve	overcome	in	our	drive	to	make	new,	powerful	and	desirable	
cleaning	products.	We	want	to	be	recognized	for	making	people’s	lives	easier	
and	so	we	make	those	that	do	the	cleaning	the	focus	of	everything	we	do.

•	 Steam	Cleaners	and	Cleaning	Solutions

•	 Specialty	Garage	Utility

•	 Cleaning	Systems	and	Air	Purification

Distribution

•	 Leading	Home	Centers,	Mass	Merchants,	
Catalogue, TV Shopping, Online Retailers

Technology
•	 WINDTUNNEL®	and	WINDTUNNEL® MAX™, 
Multipurpose	SPINSCRUB®, Max Extract®,  
Max Extract® Pressure Pro, Bagged, Bagless 
Cyclonic,	WIDE	PATH™	Nozzle	suction,	 
DUAL V® Twin Air Path Suction, Dual Tank Water 
Filtration and lithium ion cordless

FLooRMATE® DELUxE

A powerful cleaner that is lightweight and maneuverable,  
the FLOORMATE® Deluxe is designed to deliver the best clean 
while gently and safely scrubbing hard floors in a snap.  
Dual tanks are easy to fill and empty ensuring clean water  
is all that touches the floor. Dirt is scrubbed away with 
SPINSCRUB® technology that replaces the bucket, mop  
and scrub brush. 

AIR® STEERABLE 

Powerful. Steerable. Lightweight. Another innovative addition to the 
AIR® range of products, the highly-maneuverable AIR® Steerable 
twists and turns with a flick of the wrist while delivering confident, 
whole-home cleaning.

DUAL PoWER™  
CARPET WASHER 

Deep cleans on the double. The  
DUAL POWER™ Carpet Washer lifts 
tough deep down dirt up and out of 
carpet	with	innovative	DUALSPIN™	
PowerBrushes that scrub and groom. 
The addition of above floor cleaning 
makes it a whole-home cleaner for  
both carpet and upholstery.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013
Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

nic Industrie  

29
29

Floor	Care	and	Appliances

MAGNESIUM® RS  
At	7.7	pounds	the	MAGNESIUM®	RS	is	the	lightest	ORECK®	to	
date,	easily	lifted	with	one	finger,	thanks	to	its	magnesium-steel	
alloy	frame,	which	also	makes	it	incredibly	durable.	Architectural,	
fashion	forward,	futuristic,	it’s	a	cleaner	that	fits	in	even	the	most	
modern	homes	but	finds	function	in	form	with	easy	swiveling	
vacuum	head	and	a	lay-flat,	low	profile	which	allows	it	to	slip	
easily	under	couches	and	around	furniture.	

ORECK®	has	earned	its	reputation	for	making	the	finest	vacuums	available	
and	providing	premium	service.	Originally	a	manufacturer	of	vacuums	for	 
the	hotel	industry,	ORECK®	is	driven	by	a	singular,	consumer-satisfying	goal:	
to	provide	easy-to-use,	lightweight,	and	durable	vacuums	and	other	cleaning	
tools	—	each	with	exceptional	power	—	for	every	room	in	the	house.

•	 Cleaning	Systems	and	Air	Purification

•	 Cleaning	Solutions

Technology
•	 Saniseal® bag system, QuickSwitch®, 

SlimSwivel™, HEPA media, Easy Snap Cord 
Clip, Truman Cell® Technology,  
PATH™ filtration system

Distribution

•	 387	Exclusive	and	authorized	stores	in	 
major	US	Metropolitan	Areas,	National	
Commercial Accounts, Catalogue, QVC, 
Amazon & Oreck.com online, Axe Houghton  
in Canada

Products and Technology 

Products
•	 Upright	–	Bagged	and	Bagless

•	 Canister	–	Bagged	and	Bagless

•	 Stick

•	 Handheld	Vacuums

•	 Carpet	Washers	and	Solutions

•	 Hard	Floor	Cleaners	and	Solutions

•	 Steam	Cleaners	and	Cleaning	Solutions

30

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

 
CoMMERCIAL oRBITER®

One of the most versatile machines for 
commercial use, the durable ORECK® 
ORBITER® can safely deep clean nearly  
any surface found in a commercial setting. 
Orbital drive and the ability to add a variety 
of cleaning pads allows the unique cleaner 
to take on carpet, wood, vinyl, ceramic, 
marble and concrete flooring.

CoMMERCIAL xL® UPRIGHT 
WITH PERMANENT BELT

The XL® Permanent Belt model offers the 
same light weight and ergonomic handle, 
but goes even further in ease of use. 
Advanced circuitry protects from jams 
and broken belts, its 40-foot cord is easily 
replaced, a lay-flat design allows access  
to hard-to-reach places, and a high-speed 
double helix brushes pairs with a wide 
cleaning path for ultimate efficiency.

For	decades,	the	ORECK®	family	of	consumers	has	expressed	
their	affinity	for	the	benefits	of	owning	an	ORECK®.	That’s	why	
ORECK®	is	committed	to	making	products,	including	lightweight	
upright	vacuums,	bagless	vacuums,	convenient	hand-held	
models,	versatile	steam	mops	and	a	family	of	air	purifiers,	 
which	make	cleaning	just	a	little	bit	easier	for	all	its	customers.

CoMMERCIAL xL® 8LB UPRIGHT

Because they are the original inspiration  
to the brand, ORECK® continues to innovate  
for commercial users. The XL® is no exception, 
allowing workers to work smarter, not harder, 
because it weighs just under 8lbs. An ergonomic 
handle that received the Ease-of-Use 
Commendation from the Arthritis Foundation®* 
also helps ease the workload.

*	ARTHRITIS	FOUNDATION	is	a	registered	trademark	of	Arthritis	Foundation,	Incorporated

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

31

Floor	Care	and	Appliances

AIR® CoMPACT
The	VAX®	AIR3®	Compact	is	the	lightest	compact	
multi-cyclonic	upright	vacuum	cleaner	in	the	world,	
weighing	just	4kg.	Air	Motion	Technology	provides	
effortless	manuevrability	while	multi-cyclonic	
technology	provides	constant	powerful	suction,	all	
in	a	compact	design	for	easy	carrying	and	storage.

VAX®	is	the	UK’s	bestselling	Floor	Care	brand.	And	the	only	company	in	the	
UK	to	offer	cleaning	products	in	every	category.

From	carpet	cleaners,	upright	and	cylinder	vacuum	cleaners,	steam,	cordless,	
and	hard	floor	cleaners	–	we	listen	carefully	to	those	who	are	using	our	
products,	so	that	we	can	design	with	their	needs	in	mind.

Products and Technology 

Products
•	 Carpet	Cleaners	–	Rapide®, DUAL V®

•	 Upright/Cylinder	Vacuums	–	AIR®, Power™

Technology
•	 Heated	Cleaning,	Single	Cyclonic,	 

Multi-cyclonic, DUAL V® Twin Air Path 
Suction,	SPINSCRUB® deep cleaning,  
HEPA H12 Filtration

Distribution

•	 Mass	Merchandisers,	Electrical	Multiples,	
Grocery Retailers, Do-It-Yourself Retailers,  
TV Shopping, Online Retailers and Direct

•	 Hard	Floor	Cleaners	–	Bare	Floor	Pro,	

Floormate®

End-Users

•	 Lithium	ion	Cordless	–	Life®

•	 VAX® Cleaning Solutions

•	 VAX®	CLEAN	WITH	NO	MACHINE™	solutions

•	 Domestic	and	commercial	cleaners	who	are	

looking for high-performing products that meet 
quality, service, range and price criteria

32

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

STEAM FRESH CoMBI 

The VAX® Steam Fresh Combo offers two distinct ways to disinfect a variety of surfaces in the home, 
both as a conventional steam mop and a convenient handheld. A 15 piece tool kit offers over  
15 different uses, penetrating deep into stubborn grime, breaking down stains more quickly  
and eliminating 99.9% of harmful germs and bacteria for up to 7 days.

DUAL PoWER™  
CARPET WASHER

The VAX® DUAL POWER™ carpet 
washer is a powerful and quick 
cleaning carpet cleaner with double  
the cleaning action thanks to its dual 
rotating brushbar, which lifts stubborn, 
deep down dirt from carpets. The 
carpet cleaner is lightweight, easy  
to carry and simple to fill up, empty 
and use. It also features 30cm wide 
cleaning nozzle enables you to clean 
larger areas quickly.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

33

Floor	Care	and	Appliances	

LIFT&Go™
The	first	lift-away	from	DIRT	DEVIL® 
provides	a	perfect	solution	for	anything	
above	floor,	including	stairs	and	bookcases	
and	anything	in-between.	With	its	own	
Vac+Dust	floor	tool	and	10ft.	extended	
hose,	LIFT&GO™	can	get	into	every	corner	 
of	the	home.

DIRT	DEVIL®	is	a	vibrant	and	contemporary	brand	that	addresses	every	floor	
care	need	in	one	great	value,	convenient	and	easy	to	use	package.

Each	product	is	engineered	to	get	a	job	done	well	and	efficiently.	 
From	quick	clean-ups	to	full	house	cleaning,	DIRT	DEVIL®	has	the	answer	–	 
so	busy	people	can	clean	up	fast	and	with	style.

Technology
•	 Bagged,	Bagless,	Cyclonic,	Corded	 

& Cordless

Distribution

•	 Leading	Home	Centres,	Mass	Merchants,	
Catalogue, TV Shopping, Online Retailers

Products and Technology 

Products
•	 Uprights	–	Bagged	and	Bagless

•	 Canisters	–	Bagged	and	Bagless

•	 Stick	Vacs

•	 Hand	Vacs

•	 Steam	Cleaners

•	 Pressure	Washers

•	 Robotic	Vacuums	and	Accessories

34

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

DASH™

A powerful whole-home upright vacuum cleaner featuring the 
first	ever	Vac+Dust	floor	tool	that	connects	to	an	on-demand	
wand for ultimate hard-floor cleaning. Paired with dual cyclonic 
power and adjustable height, DASH™ is the most convenient 
cleaner for any busy home.

REBEL™ 50 WHITE

Silent. Powerful. Futuristic. The REBEL™ 
finds its own path with Smart Air Technology 
that provides an optimized air flow thanks to 
perfect shaping and a casing sealing. The air 
flow stays concentrated and powerful on its 
whole way from the nozzle through the filter 
system to the air outlet.

SPRAY+MoP & vAC+DUST

The	new	Spray+Mop	and	Vac+Dust	quick	clean	
products offer versatility in hard floor cleaning with 
SWIPES™ reusable pads. Paired with a powerful 
cleaning solution or corded and cordless suction, 
dust and grime have no place to hide on tile, 
hardwood or linoleum.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

35

Board of Directors

Group Executive Directors  

Horst Julius Pudwill MSc 
Chairman 

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill, aged 69, is Chairman of TTI, a position he has held since he jointly founded  

the Group in 1985. Until 2008, he also served as Chief Executive Officer. As Chairman, Mr Pudwill focuses 

on the strategic planning and development of the Group and continues to have oversight of the operations, 

with the Chief Executive Officer reporting directly to him. Mr Pudwill has extensive experience in international 

trade, business and commerce. Mr Pudwill is also a director of Sunning Inc. which has an interest in the equity 

of the Company.

Mr Pudwill holds a Master of Science Degree in Engineering and a General Commercial Degree.

Mr Pudwill is the father of Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill, Group Executive Director and President of  

Strategic Planning.

Joseph Galli Jr BSBA, MBA
Chief Executive Officer

Mr Joseph Galli Jr, aged 55, joined the Group in 2006 as the Chief Executive Officer of Techtronic Appliances 

and was appointed as Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director of TTI effective February 1, 2008.  

He	is	responsible	for	integrating	acquisitions	in	North	America	and	Europe,	and	enhancing	the	global	sales 	

potential of the Group’s strong brand portfolio. He is also responsible for leading the management team in  

the Group’s daily operation.

Mr Galli joined Black & Decker in 1980 where he worked for over 19 years and held various high level 

management positions, rising to the position of President of Worldwide Power Tools and Accessories.  
During his tenure at Black & Decker, he was responsible for highly successful launch of the “DeWalt®” Brand 
heavy duty power tools in 1992. After leaving Black & Decker, Mr Galli joined Amazon.com where he was 

President and Chief Operating Officer from 1999 to 2000. From 2001 to 2005, he was a Director and  

Chief	Executive	Officer	of	Newell	Rubbermaid	Inc.

Mr	Galli	graduated	from	the	University	of	North	Carolina	in	1980	with	a	Bachelor	of	Science	in	Business 	

Administration. In 1987, he obtained an MBA from Loyola College in Baltimore, Maryland.

Patrick Kin Wah Chan FCCA, FCPA
Operations Director 

Mr Patrick Kin Wah Chan, aged 54, joined the Group in 1988 and was appointed as Executive Director  

in 1990. He is now in charge of the manufacturing operations of the Group.

Mr Chan is currently the Vice-Chairman of the Dongguan City Association of Enterprises with Foreign 

Investment, the Chairman of Houjie Association of Enterprises with Foreign Investment. He is also  

the Vice-Director of Electric Tool Sub-Association of China Electrical Equipment Industrial Association.

Mr Chan is a fellow member of The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and the Hong Kong  

Institute of Certified Public Accountants.

36

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

Group Executive Directors  

Frank Chi Chung Chan ACA, FCCA, FCPA, CPA (Practising)
Group Chief Financial Officer

Mr Frank Chi Chung Chan, aged 60, joined the Group in 1991 and was appointed as Executive Director in 1992. 

He is now responsible for corporate affairs and financial management of the Group.

Mr Chan is a fellow member of The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and the Hong Kong Institute 

of Certified Public Accountants, a member of The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales,  

an associate of the Taxation Institute of Hong Kong and qualified to practise as a Certified Public Accountant  

in Hong Kong.

Mr	Chan	is	currently	an	Independent	Non-executive	Director	of	Gold	Peak	Industries	(Holdings)	Limited 	 

which is listed on the stock exchange of Hong Kong.

Stephan Horst Pudwill
President of Strategic Planning

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill, aged 37, joined the Group in 2004 and was appointed as Executive Director  

in 2006. He is mainly responsible for managing, improving and monitoring internal operations and identifying 

synergistic business opportunities within the Group.

Prior to joining the Group, Mr Pudwill held managerial positions at Daimler Chrysler AG that included product 

marketing and strategic planning for the Mercedes-Benz car group.

Mr Pudwill holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree from the University of British Columbia and  

is Mr Horst Julius Pudwill’s son.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

37

Board	of	Directors

Non-executive Director  

Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS, JP
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP, aged 61, is a Co-founder of TTI. Prof Chung, previously the  

Group Managing Director since 1985, was appointed as the Group Vice Chairman and Executive Director  

of	the	Company	on	April	18,	2007.	He	has	been	re-designated	to	Non-executive	Director	of	the	Company 	 

with effect from July 1, 2011.

Prof Chung holds a Doctor of Engineering Degree from the University of Warwick, United Kingdom and Doctor 

of Business Administration Degree from City University of Macau. He was appointed as an Industrial Professor 

by the University of Warwick, United Kingdom in December 2010. He was awarded an Honorary Doctor of 

Business Administration by the Hong Kong Polytechnic University in 2007 and awarded an Honorary Doctorate 

Degree	by	the	University	of	Newcastle,	New	South	Wales,	Australia	in	2006.	He	was	awarded	the	Bronze 	

Bauhinia Star (BBS) Medal by the Hong Kong SAR Government on July 1, 2011. He was also appointed  

as Justice of Peace by the Hong Kong SAR Government on July 1, 2005 and won the Hong Kong Young 

Industrialists Award in 1997.

Prof Chung is highly dedicated to the advancement of industry and was the Chairman of the Federation  

of Hong Kong Industries until July 5, 2013. In addition, Prof Chung holds positions on a number of  

Hong Kong SAR Government advisory committees and is also an active member of many social committees 

and associations.

Prof	Chung	is	also	an	Independent	Non-executive	Director	of	Kin	Yat	Holdings	Limited,	KFM	Kingdom	Holdings 	

Limited	and	TK	Group	(Holdings)	Limited	(with	effective	from	November	27,	2013).

Independent Non-executive Directors  

Joel Arthur Schleicher CPA, BSB
Mr	Joel	Arthur	Schleicher,	aged	62,	was	appointed	as	an	Independent	Non-executive	Director	in	1998. 	 

He has over 28 years of management experience in the manufacturing and technology/telecom services sectors.

Mr Schleicher is currently working on several initiatives in the Cyber Security arena while also serving as  

a Managing Director for MWB Investments, LLC.

Previously Mr Schleicher was the Founder, Chairman and CEO of Presidio, Inc. (2004-2011) the foremost 

professional	and	managed	services	provider	in	North	American,	at	the	forefront	of	Virtualization/Data	Center; 	

Collaboration and other advanced IT infrastructure solutions. Prior he has worked with private equity firms as  

a consultant, advisor, board member and held portfolio management roles including as Chairman and CEO  

for	Interpath	Communications,	Inc.;	CEO	of	Expanets,	Inc.	and	President	and	COO	for	Nextel	Communications, 	

Inc.	In	the	past,	he	has	served	on	the	board	of	directors	of	various	North	American	domestic	and	international 	

companies	–	both	public	and	private.

Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr	Christopher	Patrick	Langley,	aged	69,	was	appointed	as	an	Independent	Non-executive	Director	in 	 

May 2001. He was formerly an Executive Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd.  

Mr Langley maintains close ties with the business community in Hong Kong. He is currently an Independent 

Non-executive	Director	of	Dickson	Concepts	(International)	Limited,	listed	on	the	stock	exchange	of

Hong	Kong,	and	a	Non-executive	Director	of	Lei	Shing	Hong	Limited	which	has	been	delisted	from 	 

the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited on March 17, 2008. Mr Langley resigned as an Independent 

Non-executive	Director	of	Winsor	Properties	Holdings	Limited	(now	renamed	as	Vanke	Property	(Overseas) 	

Limited), which is listed on the stock exchange of Hong Kong, with effective from September 1, 2012.

38

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

	 
Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr	Manfred	Kuhlmann,	aged	69,	was	appointed	as	an	Independent	Non-executive	Director	in	2004.	He	was 	

General Manager of Dresdner Bank AG Hong Kong Branch between 1994 and 1998 and General Manager  

of Dresdner Bank AG Dubai before he retired in August 2004. Mr Kuhlmann is a graduate of the Banking 

Academy, Hamburg and has extensive experience in the finance and banking industry. Since 2005 he served 

as “Hamburg Ambassador” in the UAE to support the economic ties between Hamburg, Germany and the 

UAE. He retired from that position in May 2013 as he had moved his residence to Cyprus. Since July 2009  

Mr	Kuhlmann	was	a	Non-executive	Director	and	member	of	the	Board	of	Avicenna	Pharma	Development 	

FZLLC in Dubai, he retired from that position on December 31, 2010.

Peter David Sullivan BS
Mr	Peter	David	Sullivan,	aged	66,	was	appointed	as	Independent	Non-executive	Director	effective 	 

February 1, 2008. He was an Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of Standard Chartered Bank  

(Hong Kong) Limited. Mr Sullivan held governance responsibility for franchises of the Standard Chartered 

Group in Japan, Australia, the Philippines and Bohai Bank in Tianjin, China. He also held a number of other 

major appointments, including as the Chairman of the Hong Kong Association of Banks and the British 

Chamber of Commerce.

Mr	Sullivan	has	been	appointed	as	a	Non-executive	director	to	the	boards	of	Standard	Bank	Group	and 	 

The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited with effect from January 15, 2013. He is the Chairman and 

Non-executive	director	of	Healthcare	Locums	plc,	and	a	Non-executive	director	of	Winton	Capital	plc. 	 

Mr	Sullivan	was	an	Independent	Non-executive	director	of	SmarTone	Telecommunications	Holdings	Limited, 	 

a	Non-executive	director	of	AXA	Asia	Pacific	Holdings	Limited	that	is	listed	on	the	Australian	and	New	zealand 	

stock	exchanges,	and	the	Chairman	and	Non-executive	director	of	Cenkos	Securities	plc	listed	on	AIM.

Mr	Sullivan	holds	a	Bachelor	of	Science	Degree	from	the	University	of	New	South	Wales.

vincent Ting Kau Cheung
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung, aged 72, was appointed as a Director in 1991 and was re-designated  

as	an	Independent	Non-executive	Director	on	March	30,	2012.	He	is	a	Non-executive	Director	of 	 

Gold Peak Industries (Holdings) Limited, listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.

Mr Cheung is a graduate in law from University College London and has been a practising solicitor since  

1970. He is qualified to practice law in Hong Kong and England and Wales and he is now a Consultant  

of Vincent T.K. Cheung, Yap & Co. He is also a Fellow of University College London and a Commandeur  

de l’Ordre du Mérite Agricole from France.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013

39

Financial Review

Financial Results

Result Analysis
The Group’s turnover for the year amounted to USD4.3 billion, an 
increase of 11.6% as compared to USD3.9 billion in 2012. Profit 
attributable to Owners of the Company amounted to USD250 million 
as compared to USD201 million in 2012, an increase of 24.5%. 
Basic earnings per share for the year improved to US13.68 cents 
as compared to US11.42 cents in 2012.

EBITDA amounted to USD443 million, an increase of 13.7% as 
compared to USD389 million in 2012.

EBIT amounted to USD304 million, an increase of 16.9% as 
compared to USD260 million in 2012.

Gross Margin
Gross margin improved to 34.2% as compared to 33.5% last 
year. The margin improvement was the result of new product 
introduction, category expansion, efficient production amongst 
various production facilities, effective supply chain management 
and volume leverage on our economies of scale.

Operating Expenses
Total operating expenses for the year amounted to USD1,175 million 
as compared to USD1,033 million in 2012, representing 27.3% 
of turnover (2012: 26.8%).

Investments in product design and development amounted to 
USD107 million, representing 2.5% of turnover (2012: 2.1%) 
reflecting our continuous strive for innovation. We will continue to 
invest in design and development as new products and category 
expansions are most critical not only to maintain sales growth 
momentum but also margin expansions.

Net interest expenses for the year amounted to USD25 million as 
compared to USD37 million in 2012. Interest coverage, expressed 
as a multiple of EBITDA to total interest was 12.4 times (2012: 8.7 
times).

The effective tax rate, being tax charged for the year to before 
tax profits was at 10.5%. The Group will continue to leverage its 
global operations to sustain the overall tax efficiencies.

Liquidity and Financial Resources

Shareholders’ Funds
Total shareholders’ funds amounted to USD1.7 billion as 
compared to USD1.5 billion in 2012. Book value per share was 
at USD0.95 as compared to USD0.85 last year, an increase of 
11.8%.

Financial Position
The Group continued to maintain a strong financial position. As 
at December 31, 2013, the Group’s cash and cash equivalents 
amounted to USD698 million (2012: USD618 million), of which 
49.2%, 25.5%, 13.6%, 3.7%, 3.6% and 4.4% were denominated 
in RMB, USD, EUR, AUD, HKD and other currencies respectively.

The Group’s net gearing, expressed as a percentage of total 
net borrowing (excluding bank advance from factored trade 
receivables which are without recourse in nature) to equity 
attributable to Owners of the Company, improved to 10.6% as 
compared to 25.8% last year. The gearing improvement is the 
result of very disciplined and focused management over working 
capital and free cash flow from operations applied to debt 
repayment. The Group remains confident that gearing can further 
improve going forward.

Bank Borrowings
Long term borrowings accounted for 42.4% of total debts (2012 : 
34.3%).

The Group’s major borrowings continued to be in US Dollars 
and in HK Dollars. Borrowings are predominantly LIBOR or 
Hong Kong best lending rates based. There is a natural hedge 
mechanism in place as the Group’s major revenues are in US 
Dollars and currency exposure therefore is low. Currency, interest 
rate exposures, and cash management functions are all being 
closely monitored and managed by the Group’s treasury team.

During the year, the Group repaid USD39 million of fixed interest 
rate notes, refinanced by other bank facilities with lower interest 
rates. This refinancing arrangement will lower our interest cost in 
future periods.

40

Management’s Discussion and AnalysisTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Working Capital
Total inventory was at USD884 million as compared to USD689 
million in 2012. Days inventory increased by 10 days from 65 
days to 75 days. Part of the increase in inventory at year end was 
a result of pre-build of products before the Chinese New Year in 
January to prepare for the sales in February and to ensure the 
service quality level to customers will not be jeopardized having 
taken into consideration of our sales momentum. The Group will 
continue to focus in managing the inventory level and improve 
inventory turns.

Trade receivable turnover days were at 64 days as compared 
to 61 days last year. Excluding the gross up of the receivables 
factored which is without recourse in nature, receivable turnover 
days were at 57 days as compared to 54 days last year. The 
Group is comfortable with the quality of the receivables and will 
continue to exercise due care in managing the credit exposure.

Trade payable days were extended by 21 days from 67 days 
in 2012 to 88 days in 2013, partially offsetting the increase in 
inventory.

Working capital as a percentage of sales was at 13.9% as 
compared to 16.2% last year.

Capital Expenditure
Total capital expenditures for the year amounted to USD105 
million (2012: USD103 million).

Capital Commitments and Contingent Liabilities
As at December 31, 2013, total capital commitments amounted 
to USD19 million (2012: USD18 million) and there were no 
material contingent liabilities or off balance sheet obligations.

Charge
None of the Group’s assets are charged or subject to 
encumbrance.

Major Customers and Suppliers
For the year ended December 31, 2013

(i) 

(ii) 

the Group’s largest customer and five largest customers 
accounted for approximately 37.7% and 51.3% respectively 
of the Group’s total turnover; and

the Group’s largest supplier and five largest suppliers 
accounted for approximately 4.6% and 17.0% respectively 
of the Group’s total purchases (not including purchases of 
items which are of a capital nature).

As far as the Directors are aware, none of the Directors, their 
associates or any shareholders who owned more than 5% of TTI’s 
share capital had any interest in the five largest customers or 
suppliers of the Group.

Human Resources
The Group employed a total of 18,746 employees as at December 
31, 2013 (2012: 18,068) in Hong Kong and overseas. Total staff 
cost for the year under review amounted to USD601 million (2012: 
USD538 million).

The Group regards human capital as vital for the Group’s 
continuous growth and profitability and remains committed to 
improving the quality, competence and skills of all employees. 
It provides job-related training and leadership development 
programs throughout the organization. The Group continues to 
offer competitive remuneration packages, discretionary share 
options and bonuses to eligible staff, based on the performance 
of the Group and the individual employee.

Corporate Strategy and Business Model
The Group is a world-class leader in design, manufacturing and 
marketing of power tools, outdoor power equipment and floor 
care for consumers, professional and industrial users in the home 
improvement, infrastructure and construction industries. We 
are committed to implementing our long term strategic plan that 
focuses on “Powerful brands, Innovative Products, Operational 
Excellence and Exceptional People”.

We continue to strengthen our portfolio of powerful brands with a 
focused marketing approach. Brands extension into new product 
categories and under-represented markets enable us to generate 
outstanding growth. Geographic expansion will be a highlight of 
TTI’s future, our long term strategy is to aggressively build our 
business outside the U.S. and we have spent relentless efforts to 
expand or establish presence in high potential markets around 
the world.

Introducing innovative new products is the centerpiece of our 
long term strategy. We continue to invest in building a high-speed 
product development process, enabling us to respond faster 
to customer requests and emerging opportunities, giving us a 
vigorous competitive advantage.

Our strategy in operational excellence will continue, we will drive 
further gains in efficiency across our manufacturing operations, 
supporting further margin improvement.

We continue to deploy our Leadership Development Program 
(LDP) to develop our pool of talent for the future. The LDP 
initiative is successfully feeding talent into key positions 
throughout the company.

41

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Power Equipment, 
Accessories and Hand Tools  
USD3.1 billion – 
73.1% of the total turnover

penetration programs, while deepening strategic customer 
partnerships.

All business segments delivered record sales and profit this 
year. Our profit margins expanded, showing the strength of the 
businesses. We achieved significant cost improvements from 
our continued focus on value engineering, lean production, and 
supplier productivity. Our investments in automation are driving 
efficiency and increasing the quality in our manufacturing. The 
streamlining of our Floor Care operations boosted productivity and 
lowered costs. Working capital remained solid with the business 
generating positive free cash flow.

Power Equipment
The Power Equipment business is our largest division and 
consists of power tools, hand tools, outdoor products and 
accessories. In 2013, sales in this business rose by 9.8% to a 
record USD3.1 billion. We delivered growth in all geographic 
markets and reported strong results in our industrial division. 
The business accounted for 73.1% of Group turnover, against 
74.4% in 2012. Earnings grew 14.2% to USD261 million on new 
products, operational efficiency, and supply chain productivity.

Industrial
Our industrial division delivered another year of double digit 
growth with MILWAUKEE® expanding in key product categories. 
Our innovation and industry leadership is evident across our 
power tool, accessory, and hand tool businesses. We continued 
our solid growth through robust sales of new and innovative 
products and the ongoing performance of M12® and M18® 
cordless platforms, coupled with marketing support across all 
channels. New category expansion and key market initiatives 
were significant contributors to growth, resulting in substantial 
market penetration gains across major business segments.

We continued to advance our industry leading M12® and M18® 
cordless ranges as we introduced M12 FUEL™ Cordless Drilling 
and Fastening Solutions and the M12 FUEL™ SDS+ Rotary 
Hammer, delivering cutting edge innovation that separates us 
from our competitors in the compact 12V cordless space. M18 

Review Of Operations
TTI delivered another strong year on very good results across 
our business segments, brands, and geographic locations. 
North America grew 11.2%, Europe expanded 13.3% and 
rest of world increased 11.5%. The progress we are making in 
product development to deliver new and innovative products with 
advanced technologies and the expansion of our Lithium cordless 
platforms are driving our growth. We are focused on continuing 
our success in expanding our market share in Canada, Western 
Europe, Australia, and New Zealand, as well as the United States. 
Additionally, we strengthened our distribution footholds across 
Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, Africa, and Asia. 
Our MILWAUKEE® business had a stellar year in all markets as 
we continued to drive global expansion and made great strides 
in our Floor Care business. We made significant gains in channel 

Brand

Market Segment

Major Market

Industrial

Global

Professional

Global

Consumer
 Power Tools & Accessories

Garden Enthusiasts 
 Outdoor Products & 
Accessories

North 
America,
Europe, 
Australasia

Consumer
 Outdoor Products & 

Accessories

Global

42

Management’s Discussion and AnalysisTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Sales by Business

73.1%

Power Equipment,  
Accessories and 
Hand Tools

26.9%

Floor Care and 
Appliances

FUEL™ Drilling and Fastening continued to draw new users into 
the M18® system while the expansion of the new M18 FUEL™ 
SAWZALL® Reciprocating Saw, High Torque Impact Wrenches, 
Circular Saw, and Grinders increased momentum for the FUEL® 
range globally.

The MILWAUKEE® brand has established itself as a preeminent 
player in the power tool accessories industry by addressing 
user challenges through innovative design and groundbreaking 
technology. MILWAUKEE® expanded the leading SAWZALL® 
blade program with the introduction of DOUBLE DUTY™ 
Metal Blades and moved into a new drilling segment with the 
introduction of JAM FREE™ Step Bits. Both of these accessories 
have proven to increase productivity and efficiency for the end 
users. The introduction of SHOCKWAVE® Expand to support 
the SHOCKWAVE® range of Impact Duty driver bits offers key 
productivity enhancement, allowing users to cover hundreds of 
applications with a handful of items.

MILWAUKEE® is striving to become the leader in productivity 
solutions in the industrial hand tool market. Overwhelming 
acceptance of MILWAUKEE® hand tools by our core users has 
come from a focus on innovation within key categories such as 
fastening, cutting, and layout. Our dedication to unveiling new 
products, such as the innovative HOLLOWCORE™ Nut Drivers 
and new line of FASTBACK™ Utility Knives, will continue to be a 
core part of the growth strategy.

Consumer and Professional
We continue to expand our leading North American consumer 
power tool brand, RYOBI®, driven in large part by the innovative 
new 18V ONE+® product introductions that utilise the ONE+® 
Lithium ion battery platform, as well as increased marketing 
activities. RYOBI® ONE+® continues to add more than one million 
new customers each year through new product launches and 
promotional marketing campaigns. The launch of the RYOBI® 
18V ONE+® AIRSTRIKE™ Brad Nailer has expanded our ONE+® 
system and has broadened our professional customer base. 
AIRSTRIKE™ eliminates the need for a compressor, hose, or gas 
cartridges and the 18V battery allows users to drive over 700 nails 
per charge. We are expanding the AIRSTRIKE™ technology with 

the introduction of the 18V ONE+® AIRSTRIKE™ Narrow Crown 
Stapler, another innovative category expansion.

Our professional business grew in all geographic markets with 
AEG® brand expanding in its core Europe and rest of world 
geographies. We have a focused distribution strategy in key 
markets and have nurtured strong distribution partnerships. 
Growth is being driven by the introduction of innovative new 
products, strong Lithium cordless platforms, and marketing 
support programs.

Outdoor Products
Outdoor Products grew in all geographic regions. We increased 
profitability with new products, enhanced quality systems, 
operational efficiency, and supply chain productivity. Our 
cordless categories have shown tremendous growth over the 
past few years and 2013 was no exception. The growth came 
through the ongoing success of the RYOBI® 18V ONE+® program, 
expansion into higher voltages like RYOBI® 40V, and introducing 
innovations like the ONE+® Hybrid. The RYOBI® 40V range 
grew tremendously as users discovered that the run time is 
comparable to gas powered equipment. The uniqueness of the 
RYOBI® Hybrid is the dual power source, providing the user with 
the ability to choose between the powerful Lithium ONE+® battery 
and an extension cord.

In addition, we maintained our flow of new product innovations in 
our core gas product categories.

43

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Floor Care and Appliances 
USD1.2 billion – 
26.9% of the total turnover

Floor Care and Appliances
Floor Care and Appliances had a successful year. The business 
realigned its cost base to increase efficiencies, and invested 
significantly in product development and marketing. The result 
was a significant increase in sales and margin improvement. We 
generated sales growth of 17.0% over 2012 to USD1.2 billion with 
double digit growth in all geographic markets. Profitability moved 
higher on positive contributions from new product launches, the 
reorganization of our operations, and cost improvements. The 
business accounted for 26.9% of group turnover against 25.6% in 
2012. During the year we acquired the ORECK® business which 
strengthens and expands our market penetration in independent 
and commercial channels.

North America delivered double digit sales growth and improved 
margins driven by an increased investment in marketing and 
successful new product launches, backed by operational 
productivity. The HOOVER® FLOORMATE® family of hard floor 
washers experienced strong growth and the launch of the new 
HOOVER® AIR® range of lightweight, powerful upright vacuum 
cleaners was a success in an important product category. We 
initiated the expansion of our range and distribution of carpet 
cleaners with the HOOVER® DUAL POWER™ Carpet Washer, a 
new and innovative lightweight twin brushbar carpet washer. We 
are pleased with the performance of a new range of innovative 
DIRT DEVIL® quick clean products for everyday household 
cleaning, which is helping to revitalise the brand.

Brand

Market Segment

Major Market

Premium Cleaning

Commercial

North 
America,
Asia, Middle  
East & Africa

North 
America

High-Performance

Global

Consumer

Global

We delivered double digit sales growth in Europe and rest of the 
world from new products and marketing investments. Our VAX® 
business in Europe had another highly successful year with 
double digit expansion in the United Kingdom, Eastern Europe 
and Russia. In addition to delivering innovative new products 
supported by strategic marketing, we integrated the global supply 
chain and product development processes, and maintained our 
cost reduction programs and improved our working capital.

Purchase, Sale or Redemption of Shares
A total of 3,300,000 ordinary shares of the Company were 
cancelled by the Company during the year. Among these 
cancelled shares, 2,000,000 shares were bought back and settled 
during the year at prices ranging from HKD17.74 to HKD19.16 
and 1,300,000 shares were bought back in December 2012 and 
cancelled in January 2013 at prices ranging from HKD14.34 to 
HKD14.68. The aggregate amount paid by the Company for such 
buy-backs cancelled during 2013 amounting to USD7,158,000 
was charged to the retained earnings. The issued share capital 
and the capital redemption reserve of the Company was reduced 
and increased respectively.

44

Management’s Discussion and AnalysisTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Sales by Business

26.9%

Floor Care and 
Appliances

73.1%

Power Equipment,  
Accessories and 
Hand Tools

The buy-back of the Company’s shares during the year were 
effected by the Directors pursuant to the mandate received from 
shareholders at the previous annual general meeting, with a view 
to benefiting shareholders as a whole by enhancing the net asset 
value per share and earnings per share of the Company.

Except as disclosed above, neither the Company nor any of its 
subsidiaries purchased, redeemed or sold any of the Company’s 
listed securities during the year.

Review of Financial Information
The Audit Committee has reviewed with senior management of 
the Group and Messrs Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu the accounting 
principles and practices adopted by the Group and has discussed 
internal controls and financial reporting matters, including the 
review of Group’s consolidated financial statements for the 
year ended December 31, 2013. The Board acknowledges its 
responsibility for the preparation of the accounts of the Group.

Dividend
The Directors have recommended a final dividend of HK13.75 cents  
(approximately US1.77 cents) per share with a total of 
approximately USD32,382,000 for the year ended December 
31, 2013 (2012: HK10.75 cents (approximately US1.38 cents)) 
payable to the Company’s shareholders whose names appear 
on the register of members of the Company on May 30, 2014. 
Subject to the approval of the shareholders at the forthcoming 
annual general meeting of the Company, the proposed final 
dividend is expected to be paid on or about June 27, 2014. This 
payment, together with the interim dividend of HK10.00 cents 
(approximately US1.29 cents) per share (2012: HK6.75 cents 
(approximately US0.87 cent)) paid on September 27, 2013, 
makes a total payment of HK23.75 cents (approximately 
US3.06 cents) per share for 2013 (2012: HK17.50 cents 
(approximately US2.25 cents)).

Closure of Register of Members
The register of members of the Company will be closed for the 
following periods:

To ascertain members’ eligibility to attend and vote at the 2014 
Annual General Meeting, the register of members of the Company 
will be closed from May 22, 2014 to May 23, 2014, both days 
inclusive, during which period no transfers of shares will be 
effected. In order to qualify to attend and vote at the 2014 Annual 
General Meeting, all transfers accompanied by the relevant share 
certificates must be lodged with the Company’s share registrars, 
Tricor Secretaries Limited, at 26/F., Tesbury Centre, 28 Queen’s 
Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong (which will be relocated to Level 
22, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queen’s Road East, Hong Kong with 
effect from March 31, 2014) for registration not later than  
4:00 p.m. on May 21, 2014.

To ascertain members’ entitlement to the final dividend, the 
register of members of the Company will be closed from May 29, 
2014 to May 30, 2014, both days inclusive, during which period 
no transfers of shares will be effected. In order to qualify for the 
final dividend, all transfers accompanied by the relevant share 
certificates must be lodged with the Company’s share registrars, 
Tricor Secretaries Limited, at 26/F., Tesbury Centre, 28 Queen’s 
Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong (which will be relocated to Level 
22, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queen’s Road East, Hong Kong with 
effect from March 31, 2014) for registration not later than  
4:00 p.m. on May 28, 2014.

45

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013To enhance shareholders’ interests and promote sustainable 
development, the Company is committed to maintain a high 
standard of corporate governance. The Company emphasizes 
a quality board of directors (the “Board”) for leadership and 
effective internal controls, transparency and accountability to all 
shareholders. The codes and practices of corporate governance 
and the disclosure of this Corporate Governance Report are 
reviewed from time to time to improve the Company’s corporate 
governance practices with regards to the latest developments on 
all applicable laws, rules and regulations.

Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code
The Company has complied with all the code provisions of the 
Corporate Governance Code set out in Appendix 14 of the Rules 
Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong 
Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”) (the “Corporate Governance 
Code”) throughout the year ended December 31, 2013, save 
that:

1. 

none of the Directors are appointed for a specific term 
since they are subject to retirement by rotation and 
re-election in accordance with the Articles of 
Association of the Company. Under Article 103 of the 
Articles of Association of the Company, one-third of the 
Board must retire by rotation at each general meeting of 
the Company and if eligible, offer themselves for  
re-election.

Corporate Governance Policy
The Board develops and reviews the corporate governance 
policies and practices to ensure compliance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association and the laws, rules and regulatory 
requirements governing the Group. The Board performed 
the corporate governance function by, but not limited to, the 
following:

‧ 

‧ 

‧ 

review the compliance of the Corporate Governance Code 
and the disclosure set out in this Corporate Governance 
Report.

review and monitor the training and continuous professional 
development of directors and senior management.

review and monitor the compliance of the Model Code for 
Securities Transactions by Directors, the Code for Securities 
Transactions by Relevant Employees and other codes of 
conduct of the Company.

Board of Directors

Roles and Responsibilities
The Board is responsible for leading, directing and supervising the 
Group affairs collectively with an effective corporate governance 
framework for the long term success of the Company. Principal 
responsibilities of the Board including, but are not limited to, the 
following:

2.  Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE (an Independent  

Non-executive Director) and Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher 
(an Independent Non-executive Director) were unable to 
attend the annual general meeting of the Company held 
on May 24, 2013 due to prior engagements.

3. 

the Board is provided with quarterly updates instead of 
monthly updates. The Board agreed that quarterly updates 
give a balanced and understandable assessment of the 
performance, position and prospects of the Company in 
supporting the Directors to discharge their responsibilities.

‧ 

‧ 

‧ 

‧ 

The Company also voluntarily complied with a number of 
recommended best practices set out in the Corporate Governance 
Code, which is aimed for further enhancement of the Company’s 
corporate governance standard and promote the best interests of 
the Company and shareholders as a whole.

46

formulate overall mid-term and long-term strategy and 
direction of the Company.

consider matters covering major acquisitions and disposals, 
appointment of Directors, senior management and external 
auditors, and other significant operational matters.

develop and review the Company’s policies and practices 
on corporate governance.

oversee and control the Company’s operations and financial 
performance through the determination of the annual 
budget and continuous review of performance results.

‧  monitor risks and changes in local and international 

business community in order to enhance shareholders’ 
value.

Written procedures have been formally adopted and reviewed 
regularly in order to govern the delegation of daily management 
responsibilities to the senior management of the Group and the 
reservation to the Board of specifically identified matters.

Corporate Governance ReportTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Board Composition
As at the date of this report, the Board consists of five Group 
Executive Directors, one Non-executive Director and five 
Independent Non-executive Directors. An analysis of the current 
composition of the Board of the Company is set out below:

Group Executive Directors (“ED”)
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill (Chairman)
Mr Joseph Galli Jr (Chief Executive Officer)
Mr Kin Wah Chan (Operations Director)
Mr Chi Chung Chan (Group Chief Financial Officer)
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill (President of Strategic Planning)

Non-executive Director (“NED”)
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Independent Non-executive Directors (“INED”)
Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Educational Background 

Professional Experience

A list of Directors and their roles and functions are published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com) and the Stock Exchange’s 
website (www.hkexnews.hk). Their biographical details and relevant relationships are set out on pages 36 to 39 of this annual report.

47

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
Appropriate Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance cover 
has been arranged to indemnify the Directors and Officers of 
the Group for liabilities arising out of corporate activities. The 
coverage and the sum insured under the policy are reviewed 
annually.

In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and 
the Listing Rules, directors are subject to retirement by rotation 
at least once every three years. Any Directors appointed to fill 
a casual vacancy would be subject to election by shareholders 
at the next annual general meeting after their appointment. As 
at the date of this report, Independent Non-executive Directors 
and Non-executive Director form majority of the Board, and the 
Independent Non-executive Directors represent over one-third of 
the Board. Furthermore, each of the Independent Non-executive 
Directors possesses professional qualifications or accounting or 
related financial management expertise as required under Rule 
3.10 of the Listing Rules. All the Independent Non-executive 
Directors meet the guidelines for assessing independence set 
out in Rule 3.13 of the Listing Rules. Annual confirmation of 
independence from each of the Independent Non-executive 
Directors has been received by the Company and they are still 
considered to be independent.

To promote balance of power and authority, the roles of Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer of the Company have been segregated 
and clearly distinguished.

The roles of Chairman comprise, but are not limited to, the 
following:

‧ 

‧ 

‧ 

‧ 

‧ 

lead the Board to ensure it works effectively and acts in the 
best interests of the Company.

ensure good corporate governance practices and 
procedures are established.

ensure all Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at 
Board meetings and receive accurate, timely and reliable 
information.

encourage all Directors to make full and active contributions 
to the Board’s affairs.

ensure appropriate steps are taken to provide effective 
communication with shareholders and that views of 
shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole.

The roles of Chief Executive Officer comprise, but are not limited 
to, the following:

‧ 

‧ 

‧ 

enhance the global sales potential of our strong brand 
portfolio.

provide leadership for the global management team in the 
Group’s daily operations.

facilitate the integrating acquisitions in North America and 
Europe.

Before accepting appointment as a director, every Director is 
aware that he must be able to contribute sufficient time and 
attention to the affairs of the Company. Orientation which details 
the duties and responsibilities of directors under the Listing Rules, 
the Company’s Articles of Association, related ordinances and 
relevant regulatory requirements of Hong Kong is provided for 
every newly appointed director. Presentations are given by senior 
executives of the Company and external professionals to ensure a 
proper understanding of the Company’s business and operations.

48

Corporate Governance ReportTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Directors’ Continuous Professional Development
All Directors are provided with regular training, updates and written materials on relevant laws, rules and regulations to ensure that 
Directors are aware of the latest changes in the commercial and regulatory environment in which the Company conducts its business. 
To ensure that the Directors’ contribution to the Board remains informed and relevant, the Directors are encouraged to participate in 
various professional development programmes especially in relation to latest updates on relevant rules, regulations and compliance 
requirements to develop and refresh their knowledge and skills.

All Directors participated in continuous professional development as set out in code provision A.6.5 of the Corporate Governance Code. 
According to the records of training provided by each Director to the Company, training received by all Directors in 2013 is summarized 
in the following table:

Type of Continuous Professional Development Programme

Updates on 
business 
operations, 
laws, rules and 
regulations 
or corporate 
governance 
matters

Updates on 
directors’ roles, 
functions and 
duties

Updates on 
accounting, 
financial or other 
professional 
skills

√
√
√
√
√

√

√
√
√
√
√

√
√
√
√
√

√

√
√
√
√
√

√
√

√

√

Group Executive Directors
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill
Mr Joseph Galli Jr
Mr Kin Wah Chan
Mr Chi Chung Chan
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Non-executive Director
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Independent Non-executive Directors
Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Compliance with the Codes for 
Securities Transactions
The Board has adopted the provisions of the Model Code for 
Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers set out in 
Appendix 10 of the Listing Rules (the “Model Code”). Specific 
enquiries have been made with all Directors who have confirmed 
that they have fully complied with the required standards as set 
out in the Model Code during the year ended December 31, 
2013.

Another code of conduct on terms no less onerous than the 
Model Code that applies to securities transactions of all relevant 
employees who may be in possession of unpublished price 
sensitive information in relation to the Company (the “Code 
for Securities Transactions by Relevant Employees”) has also 
been adopted. No incident of non-compliance was noted by the 
Company during the year.

Both the Model Code and the Code for Securities Transactions 
by Relevant Employees have been published on the Company’s 
website (www.ttigroup.com).

49

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Peter David Sullivan with 
other members being Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher and Mr Manfred 
Kuhlmann. All members of the Audit Committee are Independent 
Non-executive Directors and each of them has professional 
qualifications or accounting or related financial management 
expertise as required under Rule 3.10 of the Listing Rules.

The Audit Committee aims to ensure the effectiveness of internal 
control system and compliance with the Group’s obligations under 
the Listing Rules and other applicable laws and regulations and to 
oversee the integrity of the financial statements of the Company. 
The Audit Committee is also directly responsible on behalf of the 
Board for the assessment of the independence and qualifications 
of the external auditors; the selection, oversight and remuneration 
of the Company’s external auditors; the maintenance of an 
appropriate relationship with the external auditors and the 
oversight of the performance of the Company’s external auditors.

The Audit Committee held four meetings in 2013 and performed 
duties summarized below:

‧ 

‧ 

‧ 

‧ 

review the Group’s accounting principles and practices, 
significant financial matters, internal controls and financial 
reporting matters.

recommend the re-appointment of the external auditors 
and review the audit and non-audit services provided by the 
external auditors.

review the interim and annual financial statements of the 
Group before submission to the Board.

perform regular update and review on internal audit of the 
Group.

Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr Horst Julius Pudwill 
(Chairman of the Board) with other members being Mr Vincent 
Ting Kau Cheung, Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE and  
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann. All members except Mr Horst Julius 
Pudwill are Independent Non-executive Directors.

Board Meetings
To facilitate the effectiveness of the Board, there are at least 
four scheduled Board meetings in a year and will meet more 
frequently as and when required. All Directors are provided with 
timely, complete and reliable information on the affairs of the 
Group, and have access to all related materials in relation to the 
Board’s issues to enable informed decisions with sufficient details. 
Directors receive support from and access to the Company 
Secretary of the Company (the “Company Secretary”) to ensure 
Board procedures and all applicable law, rules and regulations 
are followed. Each Director can access to senior management 
of the Group on their requests and to independent professional 
advice on performing their duties at the Company’s expenses. All 
Directors receive briefings and professional development training 
as necessary to ensure a proper understanding of the business of 
the Group and their responsibilities under statute and at common 
law.

Six Board meetings were held in 2013. Attendance records of 
each Director are set out in the section “Board, Board Committee 
and General Meetings in 2013” at the end of this report. The 
meeting agenda is set by the Chairman in consultation with 
members of the Board to include any other matters raised by 
Directors in advance. Minutes of the Board and Board Committee 
meetings with sufficient details of matters and concerns 
discussed are kept in safe custody by the Company Secretary, are 
sent to the Directors for comment and records and are open for 
inspection by the Directors. To facilitate maximum attendance of 
Directors, Board meeting, Board Committee meeting and Annual 
General Meeting dates for 2014 have been agreed at the Board 
meeting held in August 2013.

Board Committees
The Board has delegated various responsibilities to three 
Board committees which have been set up, namely the Audit 
Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration 
Committee. Each of these Board Committees has specific written 
terms of reference which deal clearly with their authority and 
duties and have been published on the Company’s website 
(www.ttigroup.com) and the Stock Exchange’s website 
(www.hkexnews.hk).

Independent Non-executive Directors form the majority of 
all Board Committees with regular attendance and active 
participation to ensure independent views and opinions 
contributed and expressed at the Board Committee meetings. 
The Board monitors and oversees the delegated authority and 
responsibilities through regular reporting by the Board Committees 
in relation to their activities involved and recommendations and 
decisions made. Attendance records of each Board Committee 
are set out in the section “Board, Board Committee and General 
Meetings in 2013”.

50

Corporate Governance ReportTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2013The Nomination Committee aims to ensure a fair and 
transparent process of Board appointments, and in particular 
to assist the Board to identify suitably qualified candidates and 
make recommendations for consideration of the Board and 
shareholders. The Nomination Committee would consider, but not 
limited to, professional knowledge, industry experience, personal 
skills, ethics and integrity as well as the ability to contribute 
sufficient time and attention to the Board when considering 
suitable candidates of directors.

The Nomination Committee held two meetings in 2013. The work 
performed by the Nomination Committee in 2013, with sufficient 
resources provided by the Company and/or independent 
professional advice if necessary, included:

‧ 

‧ 

‧ 

review of the structure, size and composition of the Board 
and the existing Nomination Policy on a regular basis.

review and make recommendations to the Board on the 
Board Diversity Policy.

assess the independence of Independent Non-executive 
Directors.

‧  make recommendations to the Board on relevant matters 

relating to the retirement and re-election of the Directors at 
the 2013 Annual General Meeting.

The Board adopted the Board Diversity Policy with recommendation 
from the Nomination Committee in August 2013, which is 
published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com). 
The Company recognizes that widening diversity at the Board 
level is essential for sustainable development of the Group. 
While reviewing the composition of the Board, the Nomination 
Committee would consider various perspectives, including, but 
not limited to, age, gender, cultural and educational background, 
professional experience and length of service. An analysis of the 
current Board composition based on these objective criteria is set 
out on page 47 of this report.

Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Vincent Ting Kau 
Cheung with the other members being Mr Christopher Patrick 
Langley OBE, Mr Manfred Kuhlmann, Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher 
and Mr Peter David Sullivan. All members of the Remuneration 
Committee are Independent Non-executive Directors.

The Remuneration Committee aims to assist the Board in 
developing and administering a fair and transparent procedure 
for setting policy on the overall human resources strategy 
of the Group as well as the remuneration of Directors and 
senior management of the Group, and for determining their 
remuneration packages, on the basis of their merit, qualifications, 
and competence, and having regard to the Company’s operating 
results, individual performance, and comparable market statistics. 
The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the 
Board on the remuneration packages of Executive Directors 
and senior management, including, without limitation, base 
salaries, bonuses, benefits in kind and compensation payments. 
The Remuneration Committee also makes recommendations 
to the Board on the remuneration of Non-executive Director 
and Independent Non-executive Directors. The Remuneration 
Committee reports directly to the Board on its decisions or 
recommendations, and consults the Chairman and/or Chief 
Executive Officer for the proposals of other Executive Directors’ 
remuneration packages with access to sufficient resources and 
professional advices if necessary.

The Remuneration Committee held two meetings in 2013 and 
performed, among other things, the following:

‧ 

‧ 

review and make recommendations on the existing 
remuneration policy for directors and senior management.

assess the performance and remuneration package of 
Executive Directors.

Company Secretary
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary. The Company Secretary is responsible for 
ensuring that Board procedures are followed and for facilitating 
information flows and communications among Directors as 
well as with Shareholders and management of the Company. 
The Company Secretary is an employee of the Company and is 
appointed by the Board. During 2013, the Company Secretary 
undertook over 15 hours of professional training to update her 
skills and knowledge.

Accountability and Audit
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for overseeing the 
preparation of the accounts of the Group which give a true and 
fair view of the Group’s state of affairs, results and cash flows for 
the year.

The Board will present a balanced, clear and understandable 
assessment of annual and interim reports, other price-sensitive 
announcements and other financial disclosures required 
under the Listing Rules, and reports to the regulators as well 
as information required to be disclosed pursuant to statutory 
requirements.

51

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Internal Controls
The Board aims to maintain a sound and effective internal 
control system and is responsible for approving and reviewing 
key internal control policies which include delegated authorities, 
policy on market disclosure, investor and media relations, non-
audit services and treasury management policy. The Board 
conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the internal 
control system of the Company. An internal control system is 
designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance that 
material misstatement or loss can be avoided, and to manage and 
minimize risks of failure in operational systems.

The Board, and in particular the Audit Committee, conducts a 
continuous review of the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
control system that has been put in place. The reviews covering 
financial, operational, compliance controls and risk management 
performed in 2013 included:

‧ 

‧ 

‧ 

‧ 

‧ 

‧ 

the strategic and annual operating plan.

the effectiveness of the Company’s procedures relating to 
statutory and regulatory compliance.

the organization structure and delegated authorities.

the risk management process including formal risk 
assessment at the enterprise level upon discussions with 
senior management responsible for day-to-day management 
of significant risks.

the performance and adequacy of accounting and financial 
reporting functions.

the scope and quality of management’s ongoing monitoring 
of risks and system of internal control.

External Auditors
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, the external auditors of the Group, 
provided the following audit and non-audit services to the Group 
in 2013:

Nature of Services

External Audit Services
Taxation Services
Other Services

Amount
 (USD million)

2.6
0.1
0.1

52

The other services provided by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu 
comprised professional services conducted under the terms of 
specified engagements.

The nature and ratio of annual fees to external auditors for audit 
services and non-audit services are subject to scrutiny by the 
Audit Committee to ensure the independence of the external 
auditors. All non-audit services from external auditors are 
regulated by a Policy on Non-Audit Services published on the 
Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com).

The members of the Audit Committee and the external auditors 
of the Group meet without the presence of the management of 
the Group twice a year to enhance independent reporting by 
external auditors of the Group. In order to maintain effective 
communication with shareholders, the external auditors attended 
the 2013 Annual General Meeting to answer questions about the 
conduct of the audit, the preparation and content of the auditors’ 
report, the accounting policies and auditor independence.

Investor Relations and Shareholder 
Communications
The Company aims to maintain effective communication and 
on-going dialogue with its shareholders and investors particularly 
through the following major means:

Shareholders’ Communication Policy
The Shareholders’ Communication Policy, which primarily covered 
the current practices for communicating with the shareholders 
and published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com), 
has been adopted by the Board on March 22, 2012. All the 
Company’s circulars, announcements, notices and results of 
general meetings, annual and interim reports, and webcasts of 
results presentations conducted at press conferences, which 
published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com), provide 
timely, efficient and accurate information to the shareholders 
and investors. Essential information is communicated to the 
shareholders mainly through the Company’s financial reports, 
general meetings and the information published on the 
Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com) and the Stock Exchange’s 
website (www.hkexnews.hk). In addition, the Company holds 
regular meetings with institutional shareholders and analysts and 
encourages shareholders to attend annual general meetings to 
communicate with Directors and management of the Company 
directly.

A Policy on Market Disclosure, Investor and Media Relations, 
published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com), 
ensures that the Company complies with its disclosure obligations 
under the Listing Rules and other applicable laws and regulations, 
and that all shareholders and potential investors have an equal 
opportunity to receive and obtain externally available information 
issued by the Company.

Corporate Governance ReportTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
Shareholders’ Rights

Convening of extraordinary general meeting on requisition by 
shareholders
Pursuant to Article 66 of the Articles of Association of the 
Company and Sections 566-568 of the Companies Ordinance 
(Chapter 622 of the laws of Hong Kong), shareholders holding 
at least 5% of the total voting rights of all the shareholders 
having a right to vote at general meetings of the Company (the 
“Requisitionists”), may request the Directors to convene an 
extraordinary general meeting (“EGM”). The written requisition 
must state the general nature of the business to be dealt with at 
the EGM and must be signed by the Requisitionists and sent to 
the registered office of the Company which is currently located at 
24/F., CDW Building, 388 Castle Peak Road, Tsuen Wan, New 
Territories, Hong Kong for the attention of the Company Secretary. 
The requisition may consist of several documents in like form and 
may include the text of a resolution that may properly be moved 
and is intended to be moved at the EGM.

If the Directors do not within 21 days after the date on which 
they become subject to the requirement proceed duly to convene 
an EGM for a day not more than 28 days after the date of the 
notice convening the EGM, the Requisitionists, or any of them 
representing more than one half of the total voting rights of all 
of them, may themselves convene an EGM. The EGM must be 
called for a date not more than 3 months after the date on which 
the Directors become subject to the requirement to call an EGM. 
Any reasonable expenses incurred by the Requisitionists by 
reason of the failure of the Directors duly to convene an EGM 
shall be repaid to the Requisitionists by the Company.

Procedure for nominating a person for election as a Director
For the detailed procedure for shareholders to nominate a person 
to stand for election as a director, please refer to the written 
procedure named “Nomination of Directors by Shareholder” 
which was published on the Company’s website 
(www.ttigroup.com).

Procedure for directing shareholders’ enquiries to the Board
The Company values feedback from shareholders on its efforts 
to promote transparency and foster investor relationships. 
Shareholders may address their comments, suggestions and/ 
or enquires to the Board in writing through Investor Relations 
and Communication, contact details are set out in the section 
“Corporate Information” of this annual report.

Procedure for putting forward proposals at general meetings
Pursuant to Section 615 of the Companies Ordinance (Chapter 
622 of the laws of Hong Kong), shareholders may submit a written 
requisition to circulate a resolution at an annual general meeting 
(“AGM”) if they (a) represent at least 2.5% of the total voting 
rights of all shareholders having a right to vote on the resolution 
at the AGM to which the request relates; or (b) are at least 50 
shareholders having a right to vote on the resolution at the AGM 
to which the request relates.

The written requisition must (a) identify the resolution of which 
notice is to be given, (b) be signed by the requisitionists; (c) be 
sent to the registered office of the Company for the attention of 
the Company Secretary; and (d) be received by the Company 
not later than 6 weeks before the AGM to which the request 
relates or if later, the time at which notice is given of that AGM. 
Shareholders are requested to refer to Section 580 and 615 of the 
Companies Ordinance (Chapter 622 of the laws of Hong Kong) for 
further details.

Constitutional Document
No change has been made to the Company’s constitutional 
document during 2013. The constitutional document of the 
Company was published on the Company’s website 
(www.ttigroup.com) and the Stock Exchange’s website 
(www.hkexnews.hk).

53

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Board, Board Committee and General Meetings in 2013
A summary of attendance of Board, Board Committee and general meetings in 2013 are detailed in the following table:

Meetings attended/Held in 2013

Board

Audit 
Committee

Nomination 
Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

General 
Meeting

Number of meeting(s) held during the year

Group Executive Directors

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Non-executive Director

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Independent Non-executive Directors

Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Date(s) of meeting(s)

2

2/2

2/2

2/2

2/2

2

2/2

2/2

2/2

2/2

2/2

1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

1/1

0/1(1)

0/1(2)

1/1

1/1

1/1

March 20,
 2013

August 20, 
2013

March 20,
 2013

May 24, 
2013

May 24, 
2013

6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

6/6

4

4/4

4/4

4/4

January 25, 
2013

January 25, 
2013

March 21, 
2013

May 23, 
2013

March 19, 
2013

May 23, 
2013

August 21, 
2013

August 20, 
2013

November 19, 
2013

December 30, 
2013

Notes:

(1) 

Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher (an Independent Non-executive Director) was unable to attend the annual general meeting of the Company held on May 24, 2013 (the “2013 
Annual General Meeting”) due to prior engagements.

(2) 

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE (an Independent Non-executive Director) was unable to attend the 2013 Annual General Meeting due to prior engagements.

54

Corporate Governance ReportTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The directors have pleasure in presenting their annual report and 
the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 
2013.

Principal Activities
The Company acts as an investment holding company.

The principal activities of the principal subsidiaries and associates 
are set out in Notes 52 and 53 to the financial statements, 
respectively.

The buy-back of the Company’s shares during the year were 
effected by the Directors pursuant to the mandate received from 
shareholders at the previous annual general meeting, with a view 
to benefiting shareholders as a whole by enhancing the net asset 
value per share and earnings per share of the Company.

Directors
The directors of the Company during the year and up to the date 
of this report were:

Results and Appropriations
The results of the Group for the year ended December 31, 2013 
are set out in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and 
other comprehensive income on page 64.

An interim dividend of HK10.00 cents (approximately US1.29 
cents) per share amounting to approximately USD23,554,000 
was paid to the shareholders during the year.

The directors now recommend the payment of a final dividend 
of HK13.75 cents (approximately US1.77 cents) per share to 
the shareholders on the register of members on May 30, 2014, 
amounting to approximately USD32,382,000.

Property, Plant and Equipment
The Group continued to expand its business and during the 
year spent approximately USD7,879,000 on moulds and 
tooling and acquired office equipment, furniture and fixtures 
for approximately USD7,635,000 and plant and machinery 
for approximately USD9,699,000. Details of these and other 
movements in the property, plant and equipment of the Group 
and the Company during the year are set out in Note 16 to the 
financial statements.

Share Capital
Details of movements during the year in the share capital of the 
Company are set out in Note 41 to the financial statements.

A total of 3,300,000 ordinary shares of the Company were 
cancelled by the Company during the year. Among these 
cancelled shares, 2,000,000 shares were bought back and settled 
during the year at prices ranging from HKD17.74 to HKD19.16 
and 1,300,000 shares were bought back in December 2012 and 
cancelled in January 2013 at prices ranging from HKD14.34 to 
HKD14.68. The aggregate amount paid by the Company for such 
buy-backs cancelled during 2013 amounting to USD7,158,000 
was charged to the retained earnings. The issued share capital 
and the capital redemption reserve of the Company was reduced 
and increased respectively.

Group Executive Directors:
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill, Chairman
Mr Joseph Galli Jr, Chief Executive Officer
Mr Kin Wah Chan
Mr Chi Chung Chan
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Non-executive Director:
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Independent Non-executive Directors:
Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

In accordance with Article 103 of the Company’s Articles of 
Association, Messrs. Horst Julius Pudwill, Joseph Galli Jr, 
Manfred Kuhlmann and Peter David Sullivan will retire at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer 
themselves for re-election.

No director proposed for re-election at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting has a service contract which is not determinable 
by the Group within one year without payment of compensation, 
other than statutory compensation.

Terms of Office of Non-executive Directors and 
Independent Non-executive Directors
The term of office for each of the Non-executive Directors and 
Independent Non-executive Directors is the period up to his 
retirement by rotation in accordance with Article 103 of the 
Company’s Articles of Association.

55

Report of the DirectorsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Directors’ and Chief Executive’s Interests
As at December 31, 2013, the interests and short positions of the directors and the chief executive of the Company in the shares, 
underlying shares and debentures of the Company or any of its associated corporations (within the meaning of Part XV of the Securities 
and Futures Ordinance (“SFO”)) which have been notified to the Company pursuant to Divisions 7 and 8 of Part XV of the SFO (including 
interests and short positions which any such director or chief executive was taken or deemed to have under such provisions of the SFO) 
or as recorded in the register required to be kept under section 352 of the SFO or otherwise notified to the Company and The Stock 
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited pursuant to the Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers as set out in 
Appendix 10 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”) and as 
adopted by the Company, were as follows:

Name of directors

Capacity/Nature of interests

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Beneficial owner

Interests of spouse

Interests of controlled corporation

216,159,794(2)

760,000

—

—

Interests in 
shares (other
than pursuant
to equity
derivatives)(1)

Interests in
underlying
shares
pursuant
to equity
 derivatives(1)

Total
interests in
shares/
underlying
shares

Approximate
aggregate
percentage of
interests

145,361,000

1,770,000

364,050,794

19.89%

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Beneficial owner

Beneficial owner

Beneficial owner

Beneficial owner

Beneficiary of a trust

Beneficial owner
Interests of controlled corporation

Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher

Beneficial owner

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Beneficial owner

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Beneficial owner

Beneficial owner

Beneficial owner

867,000

1,000,000

1,867,000

—

300,000

—

—

—

300,000

4,859,500

1,000,000

42,859,500

0.10%

0.00%

0.02%

2.34%

37,000,000(3)

50,005,948
37,075,030(4)

107,000

1,000,000

—

—

2,920,000

—

—
—

850,000

250,000

350,000

650,000

850,000

87,080,978

4.76%

957,000

1,250,000

350,000

650,000

3,770,000

0.05%

0.07%

0.02%

0.04%

0.21%

56

Report of the DirectorsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:

(i) 

employees; or

(1) 

Interests in shares and underlying shares stated above represent long 

positions of the Company.

The interests of the directors of the Company in the underlying shares 

pursuant to equity derivatives, which were held as beneficial owner, 

represent share options granted to them respectively pursuant to the share 

option schemes adopted by the Company, details of which are separately 
disclosed in the section headed “Share Options” below. These share options 

(ii)  Non-executive Directors (including Independent 

Non-executive Directors or Officers); or

(iii) 

secondees; or

(iv)  business partners, agents, consultants; or

are physically settled and unlisted.

(v) 

suppliers or customers; or

(2) 

These shares were held by the following companies in which Mr Horst Julius 

Pudwill has a beneficial interest:

(vi)  any person or entity that provides research, development or 

other technological support; or

(vii)  shareholders.

Share options granted must be taken up within 21 days of 
the date of grant, upon payment of HKD1.00 in cash by way 
of consideration for the grant thereof. Share options may be 
exercised at any time, subject to vesting conditions from the date 
of grant to the tenth anniversary thereof. The subscription price is 
set at the highest of: the closing price of the shares on the date of 
offer of the share option; or the average closing price of shares as 
stated in the daily quotation sheets issued by the Stock Exchange 
for the five trading days immediately preceding the date of offer; 
or the nominal value of shares on the date of offer.

The maximum number of shares in respect of which share 
options may be granted under Scheme D is not permitted to 
exceed 30.0% of the issued share capital of the Company from 
time to time or 10.0% of shares in issue as at the adoption 
date of Scheme D. No person shall be granted an option which 
exceeds 1.0% of the shares in issue as at the date of offer in any 
12-month period up to the date thereof.

Sunning Inc.

Cordless Industries Company Limited *

No. of shares

179,084,764

37,075,030

216,159,794

(3) 

These shares were held by a trust of which Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill is one 

of the beneficiaries.

(4) 

These shares were held by Cordless Industries Company Limited* in which 

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP has a beneficial interest.

* 

Cordless Industries Company Limited is owned as to 70% by 

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill and as to 30% by Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung 

BBS JP.

Save as disclosed above, none of the directors and the chief 
executive of the Company was interested or had any short position 
in any shares, underlying shares or debentures of the Company 
and its associated corporations (within the meaning of Part XV of 
the SFO) as at December 31, 2013.

Share Options
Scheme adopted on May 29, 2007 (“Scheme D”)
Following the termination of Scheme C, a new share option 
scheme was adopted pursuant to a resolution passed on May 
29, 2007 for recognition of the contribution to the development 
and growth of the Group by the eligible persons. This scheme will 
expire on May 28, 2017. Under Scheme D, the Board of Directors 
of the Company may grant share options to the following eligible 
persons (and their wholly owned companies) of the Company, its 
subsidiaries and any companies in which the Group holds any 
equity interest, to subscribe for shares in the Company:

57

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share Options (continued)
The following table discloses movements in the Company’s share options during the year:

Share option holders

Directors

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Date of
share
options
granted

Share
option
scheme
category

Outstanding
at beginning
of the year

Granted
during
the year

Exercised
during
the year

Lapsed
during
the year

Outstanding
at end of
the year

Subscription
price
HKD

Exercise period

16.11.2009

26.11.2010

21.5.2012

16.11.2009

16.11.2009

21.5.2012

16.11.2009

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

600,000

600,000

570,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

600,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

200,000

250,000

100,000

250,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

600,000

600,000

570,000

6.770   16.11.2009  -  15.11.2019

8.310   26.11.2010  -  25.11.2020

8.742   21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

— 1,000,000

6.770   16.11.2009  -  15.11.2019

— (1,000,000)

—

—

6.770   16.11.2009  -  15.11.2019

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

— 1,000,000

8.742   21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

(600,000)

—

—

—

(200,000)

—

—

—

(200,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

6.770   16.11.2009  -  15.11.2019

400,000

200,000

250,000

—

250,000

100,000

250,000

200,000

200,000

250,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

6.770   16.11.2009  -  15.11.2019

9.872   23.5.2011  -  22.5.2021

8.742   21.5.2012  -   20.5.2022

9.872   23.5.2011  -  22.5.2021

8.742   21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

9.872   23.5.2011  -  22.5.2021

8.742   21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

6.770   16.11.2009  -  15.11.2019

9.872   23.5.2011  -  22.5.2021

8.742   21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

6.770   16.11.2009  -  15.11.2019

9.872   23.5.2011  -  22.5.2021

8.742   21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

Total for directors

8,720,000

— (2,000,000)

— 6,720,000

58

Report of the DirectorsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share option holders

Employees

Date of
share
options
granted

Share
option
scheme
category

Outstanding
at beginning
of the year

Granted
during
the year

Exercised
during
the year

Lapsed
during
the year

Outstanding
at end of
the year

Subscription
price
HKD

Exercise period

24.8.2007

16.10.2007

7.11.2007

14.1.2008

17.4.2008

14.5.2008

30.5.2008

11.9.2008

1.12.2008

16.11.2009

7.12.2009

21.12.2009

28.12.2009

13.9.2010

17.1.2011

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

1,180,000

75,000

40,000

605,000

775,000

40,000

426,000

50,000

100,000

3,570,000

100,000

50,000

30,000

500,000

20,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(200,000)

(15,000)

—

(87,000)

—

—

—

—

980,000

8.390   24.8.2007  -  23.8.2017

60,000

40,000

8.810   16.10.2007  -  15.10.2017

8.088   7.11.2007  -  6.11.2017

518,000

7.566   14.1.2008  -  13.1.2018

(175,000)

(25,000)

575,000

7.780   17.4.2008  -  16.4.2018

—

(76,000)

(50,000)

(100,000)

—

—

—

—

40,000

350,000

—

—

7.500   14.5.2008  -  13.5.2018

7.546   30.5.2008  -  29.5.2018

7.430   11.9.2008  -  10.9.2018

2.340   1.12.2008  -  30.11.2018

— (1,350,000)

— 2,220,000

6.770   16.11.2009  -  15.11.2019

—

—

—

—

—

—

(50,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

100,000

6.790   7.12.2009  -  6.12.2019

—

6.350   21.12.2009  -  20.12.2019

30,000

500,000

20,000

6.390   28.12.2009  -  27.12.2019

7.390   13.9.2010  -  12.9.2020

10.436   17.1.2011  -  16.1.2021

Total for employees

Total for all categories

7,561,000

— (2,103,000)

(25,000) 5,433,000

16,281,000

— (4,103,000)

(25,000) 12,153,000

The weighted average closing prices of shares immediately before the options grant date during 2012 was HKD8.65.

The closing price of the Company’s shares immediately before the date of grant was HKD8.65 in 2012.

The weighted average closing prices of the Company’s shares immediately before various dates during 2013 and 2012 on which the 
share options were exercised were HKD18.22 and HKD14.12 respectively.

The fair values of the share options granted in 2012 measured at the date of grant was HKD2.11 per option.

Arrangements to Purchase Shares or Debentures
Other than as disclosed above, at no time during the year was the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, a party to any arrangements to 
enable the directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any 
other body corporate and neither the directors or the chief executive, nor any of their spouses or children under the age of 18, had any 
right to subscribe for the securities of the Company, or had exercised any such right.

Director’s Interests in Contracts of Significance
No contract of significance, to which the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, was a party and in which a director of the Company had a 
material interest, whether directly or indirectly, subsisted at the end of the year or at any time during the year.

59

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Substantial Shareholders’ Interests
As at December 31, 2013, the interests and short positions of the following persons, other than directors and chief executive of the 
Company, in the shares, underlying shares and debentures of the Company which have been disclosed to the Company pursuant to 
Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO have been recorded in the register kept by the Company pursuant to section 336 of the SFO:

Name

FIL Limited (1)

JPMorgan Chase & Co.(2)

Schroders Plc (3)

The Capital Group Companies, Inc.(4)

Total interests
in shares

(L/S/LP)*

Approximate aggregate
percentage of interests

130,805,000 (L)

143,311,585 (L)

73,000 (S)

119,633,184 (LP)

110,739,500 (L)

97,062,500 (L)

7.15%

7.83%

0.00%

6.54%

6.05%

5.30%

* 

(L/S/LP) represents (Long position/Short position/Lending Pool)

Notes:

(1) 

The capacity of FIL Limited in holding the 130,805,000 shares was as investment manager.

(2) 

The following is a breakdown of the interests in shares in the Company held by JPMorgan Chase & Co.:

Name

JPMorgan Chase & Co.

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.

J.P. Morgan Whitefriars Inc.

J.P. Morgan Overseas Capital Corporation

J.P. Morgan International Finance Limited

Bank One International Holdings Corporation

J.P. Morgan International Inc.

JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA

JF International Management Inc.

JPMorgan Asset Management (Asia) Inc.

JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc.

JPMorgan Asset Management (Taiwan) Limited

J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp

J.P. Morgan Securities LLC

J.P. Morgan Broker-Dealer Holdings Inc

Total interests in shares

Remarks

Direct
interests

(L/S)

Deemed
interests

(L/S/LP)

Approximate
percentage
of interests

(2a)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

—

—

—

119,633,184

44,401

—

—

—

—

—

551,500

—

—

625,000

73,000

73,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(L)

(L)

—

—

—

—

—

(L)

—

—

(L)

(L)

(S)

—

—

—

—

(L)

143,311,585

73,000

119,633,184

—

—

44,401

44,401

44,401

44,401

44,401

—

23,561,000

23,561,000

—

—

—

73,000

73,000

73,000

73,000

—

(L)

(S)

(LP)

—

—

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

—

(L)

(L)

—

—

—

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

—

7.83%

0.00%

6.54%

6.54%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

0.03%

1.29%

1.29%

0.03%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

1.22%

JF Asset Management Limited

(2b)

22,384,500

60

Report of the DirectorsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes: (continued)

Remarks:

(2a) 

JPMorgan Chase & Co. is listed on New York Stock Exchange. The capacity of JPMorgan Chase & Co. in holding the 143,311,585 shares of long position, 

73,000 shares of short position and 119,633,184 shares of lending pool respectively was as controlled corporation.

(2b) 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., J.P. Morgan Whitefriars Inc., J.P. Morgan Overseas Capital Corporation, J.P. Morgan International Finance Limited, Bank One 

International Holdings Corporation, J.P. Morgan International Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA, JF International Management Inc., JPMorgan Asset Management 

(Asia) Inc., JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc., JPMorgan Asset Management (Taiwan) Limited, J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp, J.P. Morgan Securities 

LLC, J.P. Morgan Broker-Dealer Holdings Inc and JF Asset Management Limited were all direct or indirect owned by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and by virtue of the 

SFO, JPMorgan Chase & Co. was deemed to be interested in the shares held by these subsidiaries.

(3) 

The following is a breakdown of the interests in shares in the Company held by Schroders Plc.:

Name

Schroders Plc

Schroder Administration Limited

Schroder International Holdings Limited

Schroder Holdings (Bermuda) Limited

Schroder International Holdings (Bermuda) Limited

Schroder Investment Management Limited

Schroder & Co Limited

Schroder Investment Management Limited

Schroder Investment Management North America Limited

Schroder Investment Management (Guernsey) Limited

Schroder Investment Management (Singapore) Limited

Schroder Investment Management (Hong Kong) Limited

Remarks:

Total interests in shares

Remarks

Direct
interests

(L/S)

Deemed
interests

(L/S)

Approximate
percentage
of interests

(3a)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

—

—

—

—

—

12,644,500

142,000

—

15,064,500

205,000

42,307,000

40,376,500

—

—

—

—

—

(L)

(L)

—

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

110,739,500

110,739,500

82,683,500

82,683,500

82,683,500

—

—

15,064,500

—

—

—

—

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

—

—

(L)

—

—

—

—

6.05%

6.05%

4.52%

4.52%

4.52%

0.69%

0.00%

0.82%

0.82%

0.01%

2.31%

2.21%

(3a) 

Schroders Plc is listed on London Stock Exchange. The capacity of Schroders Plc in holding the 110,739,500 shares of long position was as investment 

manager.

(3b) 

Schroder Administration Limited, Schroder International Holdings Limited, Schroder Holdings (Bermuda) Limited, Schroder International Holdings (Bermuda) 

Limited, Schroder Investment Management Limited, Schroder & Co Limited, Schroder Investment Management Limited, Schroder Investment Management 

North America Limited, Schroder Investment Management (Guernsey) Limited, Schroder Investment Management (Singapore) Limited and Schroder Investment 

Management (Hong Kong) Limited were all direct or indirect owned by Schroders Plc and by virtue of the SFO, Schroders Plc was deemed to be interested in 

the shares held by these subsidiaries.

61

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Substantial Shareholders’ Interests (continued)
Notes: (continued)

(4) 

The following is a breakdown of the interest in the shares in the Company held by The Capital Group Companies, Inc.:

Name

The Capital Group Companies, Inc.

Capital Research and Management Company

Remarks:

Total interests in shares

Remarks

Direct
interests

(4a)

(4b)

—

97,062,500

(L/S)

—

(L)

Deemed
interests

97,062,500

—

Approximate
percentage
of interests

5.30%

5.30%

(L/S)

(L)

—

(4a) 

The capacity of The Capital Group Companies, Inc. in holding the 97,062,500 shares of long position was as controlled corporation.

(4b)  Capital Research and Management Company was direct owned by The Capital Group Companies, Inc. and by virtue of the SFO, The Capital Group Companies, 

Inc. was deemed to be interested in the shares held by the subsidiary.

Save as disclosed, no other person was interested in or had a short position in the shares, underlying shares and debentures of the 
Company which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under Divisions 2 and 3 of the Part XV of the SFO as at December 31, 2013.

Sufficiency of Public Float
The Company has maintained a sufficient public float throughout the year ended December 31, 2013.

Donations
During the year, the Group made charitable and other donations totalling USD566,000.

Auditor
A resolution will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint Messrs Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu as auditor of the Company.

On behalf of the Board

Horst Julius Pudwill
Chairman
Hong Kong

March 19, 2014

62

Report of the DirectorsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TO THE MEMBERS OF TECHTRONIC INDUSTRIES COMPANY LIMITED
創科實業有限公司
(incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability)

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Techtronic Industries Company Limited (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries 
(collectively referred to as the “Group”) set out on pages 64 to 154, which comprise the consolidated and Company statements 
of financial position as at December 31, 2013, and the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, 
consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flow for the year then ended, and a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.

Directors’ Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in 
accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the 
Hong Kong Companies Ordinance, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit and to report our opinion solely 
to you, as a body, in accordance with section 141 of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance, and for no other purpose. We do not assume 
responsibility towards or accept liability to any other person for the contents of this report. We conducted our audit in accordance with 
Hong Kong Standards on Auditing issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Those standards require that 
we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated 
financial statements are free from material misstatement.

An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial 
statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal 
control relevant to the entity’s preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the 
entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of 
accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.

Opinion
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group 
as at December 31, 2013, and of the Group’s profit and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Hong Kong Financial 
Reporting Standards and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance.

Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
Certified Public Accountants

Hong Kong
March 19, 2014

63

Independent Auditor’s ReportTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Turnover
Cost of sales

Gross profit
Other income
Interest income
Selling, distribution, advertising and warranty expenses
Administrative expenses
Research and development costs
Finance costs

Profit before taxation
Taxation charge

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive loss:

Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
  Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
  Fair value gain (loss) on foreign currency forward contracts in hedge accounting
  Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations

Other comprehensive loss for the year

Total comprehensive income for the year

Profit for the year attributable to:
  Owners of the Company
  Non-controlling interests

Total comprehensive income attributable to:
  Owners of the Company
  Non-controlling interests

Earnings per share (US cents)
  Basic

  Diluted

Notes

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

6

7
8

9

10

11

15

4,299,755
(2,827,445)

3,852,418
(2,563,176)

1,472,310
4,242
11,836
(562,835)
(505,394)
(107,079)
(36,682)

276,398
(29,036)

247,362

1,289,242
3,391
8,629
(532,534)
(421,340)
(79,515)
(45,627)

222,246
(22,139)

200,107

(9,143)

(9,629)

101
(740)

(9,782)

(1,254)
4,209

(6,674)

237,580

193,433

250,284
(2,922)

247,362

240,502
(2,922)

237,580

13.68

13.62

200,991
(884)

200,107

194,340
(907)

193,433

11.42

11.26

64

Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive IncomeFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ASSETS
Non-current assets
  Property, plant and equipment
  Lease prepayments
  Goodwill

Intangible assets
Interests in associates

  Available-for-sale investments
  Derivative financial instruments
  Deferred tax assets

Current assets
Inventories

  Trade and other receivables
  Deposits and prepayments
  Bills receivable
  Tax recoverable
  Trade receivables from an associate
  Derivative financial instruments
  Held-for-trading investments
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Current liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Warranty provision
  Tax payable
  Derivative financial instruments
  Restructuring provision
  Obligations under finance leases - due within one year
  Discounted bills with recourse
  Unsecured borrowings - due within one year
  Bank overdrafts

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Notes

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

16
17
18
19
22
23
29
44

24
25

26

28
29
30
31

32
33
34

29
35
36
37
40
31

383,949
36,364
532,488
459,440
15,766
520
12,647
79,064

384,154
36,133
531,160
399,067
17,724
1,270
—
73,892

1,520,238

1,443,400

884,230
783,795
76,057
26,054
15,375
2,590
5,073
1,000
698,147

688,576
688,923
73,621
48,644
8,534
46
5,706
5,980
617,648

2,492,321

2,137,678

1,039,923
40,613
52,628
50,197
13,082
—
977
116,704
454,624
7,887

710,491
39,222
42,395
18,698
11,697
527
1,154
432,633
298,890
7,087

1,776,635

1,562,794

715,686

574,884

2,235,924

2,018,284

65

Consolidated Statement of Financial PositionAs at December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital and Reserves
  Share capital
  Reserves

Equity attributable to Owners of the Company
Non-controlling interests

Total equity

Non-current Liabilities
  Obligations under finance leases - due after one year
  Unsecured borrowings - due after one year
  Retirement benefit obligations
  Deferred tax liabilities

Notes

41

36
40
43
44

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

23,471
1,717,242

1,740,713
4,723

23,461
1,525,416

1,548,877
7,645

1,745,436

1,556,522

3,173
374,744
106,296
6,275

490,488

4,071
348,692
93,322
15,677

461,762

Total equity and non-current liabilities

2,235,924

2,018,284

The financial statements on pages 64 to 154 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on March 19, 2014 and 
are signed on its behalf by:

Chi Chung Chan
Group Executive Director

Stephan Horst Pudwill
Group Executive Director

66

Consolidated Statement of Financial PositionAs at December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ASSETS

Non-current assets
  Property, plant and equipment

Intangible assets
Investments in subsidiaries

  Loans to subsidiaries
Interests in associates

  Available-for-sale investments

Current assets
Inventories

  Other receivables
  Deposits and prepayments
  Amounts due from subsidiaries
  Derivative financial instruments
  Held-for-trading investments
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Current liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Tax payable
  Derivative financial instruments
  Amounts due to subsidiaries
  Unsecured borrowings - due within one year

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Capital and Reserves
  Share capital
  Reserves

Non-current Liabilities
  Unsecured borrowings - due after one year

Total equity and non-current liabilities

Notes

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

16
19
21
21
22
23

24
25

27
29
30
31

32

29
27
40

41
42

40

1,431
—
412,256
560,129
14,478
196

988,490

—
6,207
5,385
1,241,483
653
1,000
52,462

2,122
5,909
404,481
546,422
16,436
218

975,588

573
8,005
3,803
961,475
49
5,980
44,978

1,307,190

1,024,863

26,403
2,700
7,578
579,524
371,072

987,277

319,913

20,966
—
5,970
513,587
118,023

658,546

366,317

1,308,403

1,341,905

23,471
1,005,509

23,461
1,064,695

1,028,980

1,088,156

279,423

253,749

1,308,403

1,341,905

Chi Chung Chan
Group Executive Director

Stephan Horst Pudwill
Group Executive Director

67

Statement of Financial PositionAs at December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share

capital
USD’000

Capital

Share

redemption

premium
USD’000

reserve
USD’000

Convertible 

bonds

equity

reserve
USD’000

Attributable to Owners of the Company

Employee

share-based

Defined

benefit

obligations

Translation

compensation

remeasurement

reserve
USD’000

reserve
USD’000

reserve
USD’000

Hedging

reserve
USD’000

20,533

460,372

127

8,833

(3,113)

6,608

—

—

—

—

—

—

107

(56)

—

—

—

2,877

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

9,388

—

—

—

—

143,330

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

56

—

—

—

—

—

—

23,461

613,090

183

—

—

—

—

—

—

52

(42)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

4,473

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

42

—

—

—

—

—

23,471

617,563

225

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(8,833)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

4,232

4,232

4,232

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(1,772)

—

578

(2,201)

—

—

—

—

1,119

3,213

—

—

—

(740)

(740)

(740)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(840)

—

366

(6)

—

—

—

13,841

—

(9,629)

—

—

(9,629)

(9,629)

—

—

—

—

2,962

—

—

—

7,174

—

(9,143)

—

—

(9,143)

(9,143)

—

—

—

—

3,325

—

—

Attributable

to non-

controlling

Interests

Share of net

assets of

subsidiaries
USD’000

8,552

(884)

—

—

(23)

(23)

Total
USD’000

1,254,128

200,107

(9,629)

(1,254)

4,209

(6,674)

Retained

profits
USD’000

738,375

200,991

—

—

—

—

Total
USD’000

1,245,576

200,991

(9,629)

(1,254)

4,232

(6,651)

200,991

194,340

(907)

193,433

—

(5,653)

—

2,201

—

—

(18,185)

(15,838)

7,723

(5,653)

578

—

2,962

137,374

(18,185)

(15,838)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

7,723

(5,653)

578

—

2,962

137,374

(18,185)

(15,838)

—

—

—

(1,254)

—

(1,254)

(1,254)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(1,254)

901,891

1,548,877

7,645

1,556,522

—

—

101

—

101

101

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

250,284

—

—

—

—

250,284

(9,143)

101

(740)

(9,782)

(2,922)

—

—

—

—

247,362

(9,143)

101

(740)

(9,782)

250,284

240,502

(2,922)

237,580

—

(7,158)

—

6

—

(25,330)

(23,554)

3,685

(7,158)

366

—

3,325

(25,330)

(23,554)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

3,685

(7,158)

366

—

3,325

(25,330)

(23,554)

379

2,733

1,356

(1,153)

1,096,139

1,740,713

4,723

1,745,436

At January 1, 2012

Profit (loss) for the year

Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations

Fair value loss on foreign currency

forward contracts in hedge accounting

Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations

Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year

Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year

Shares issued at premium on exercise of options

Buy-back of shares

Recognition of equity-settled share-based payments

Lapse of share options

Deferred tax liability on remeasurement of defined benefit

  obligations

Conversion of convertible bonds

Final dividend – 2011

Interim dividend - 2012

At December 31, 2012

Profit (loss) for the year

Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations

Fair value gain on foreign currency forward 

  contracts in hedge accounting

Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations

Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year

Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year

Shares issued at premium on exercise of options

Buy-back of shares

Recognition of equity-settled share-based payments

Lapse of share options

Deferred tax liability on remeasurement of defined benefit

  obligations

Final dividend – 2012

Interim dividend - 2013

At December 31, 2013

68

Consolidated Statement of Changes in EquityFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Activities
Profit before taxation
Adjustments for:
  Amortisation/write-off of intangible assets
  Amortisation of lease prepayments
  Depreciation on property, plant and equipment
  Gain on a bargain purchase
  Employee share-based expense
  Fair value gain on interest rate swap
  Fair value loss on a warrant
  Fair value loss on foreign currency forward contracts
  Fair value loss on held-for-trading investments
  Finance costs
  Gain on disposal of an associate

Impairment loss on available-for-sale investments
Impairment loss on held-for-trading investments
Impairment loss on trade receivables
Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment
Impairment of goodwill
Interest income

  Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
  Write down of inventories

Operating cash flows before movements in working capital
Increase in inventories
Increase in trade and other receivables, deposits and prepayments
Decrease (increase) in bills receivable
(Increase) decrease in trade receivables from an associate
Increase in trade and other payables
Increase (decrease) in bills payable
Decrease in restructuring provision
Increase (decrease) in warranty provision
Decrease in trade payable to an associate
Increase in retirement benefit obligations

Cash generated from operations
Interest paid
Hong Kong Profits Tax paid
Overseas tax paid
Hong Kong Profits Tax refunded
Overseas tax refunded

Net Cash from Operating Activities

Note

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

276,398

222,246

66,972
804
74,232
(38,319)
366
(1,465)
—
1,081
4,324
36,682
—
723
1,402
3,923
19,344
3,390
(11,836)
10,114
30,532

478,667
(215,765)  
(99,414)
22,725
(2,544)
326,292
1,390
(531)
5,908
—
3,831

520,559
(36,682)
(1,410)
(24,343)
716
5,222

464,062

56,690
783
73,115
—
578
(101)
222
4,481
2,308
45,627
(1,149)
—
—
3,428
—
—
(8,629)
4,392
15,280

419,271
(3,092)
(24,143)
(12,492)
159
95,635
(3,765)
(3,202)
(2,709)
(4,037)
598

462,223
(44,982)
(7,406)
(22,448)
6,491
7,092

400,970

69

Consolidated Statement of Cash FlowFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note

45

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

(21,823)
(89,109)
(1,000)
11,836
—
253
6,386
(104,615)
1,957

—
(84,482)
—
8,629
2,000
—
4,231
(102,427)
1,635

(196,115)

(170,414)

(317,097)
(1,050)
(48,884)
1,111,936
3,685
(890,039)
(39,375)
(1,198)
(7,158)

(86,211)
(2,828)
(34,023)
792,931
7,723
(703,842)
(30,000)
(1,773)
(5,653)

(189,180)

(63,676)

78,767

610,561
932

690,260

698,147
(7,887)

690,260

166,880

439,678
4,003

610,561

617,648
(7,087)

610,561

Investing Activities
Acquisition of businesses
Additions to intangible assets
Increase in held-for-trading investments
Interest received
Proceeds from disposal of an associate
Proceeds from disposal of held-for-trading investments
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Repayment from associates

Net Cash Used in Investing Activities

Financing Activities
Decrease in discounted bills with recourse
Decrease in trust receipt loans
Dividends paid
New bank loans obtained
Proceeds from issue of shares
Repayment of bank loans
Repayment of fixed interest rate notes
Repayment of obligations under finance leases
Buy-back of shares

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities

Net Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of the Year
Effect of Foreign Exchange Rate Changes

Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of the Year

Analysis of the Balances of Cash and Cash Equivalents
Represented by:
  Bank balances, deposits and cash
  Bank overdrafts

70

Consolidated Statement of Cash FlowFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  General

The Company is a public limited company incorporated in Hong Kong and its shares are listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong 
Kong Limited (the “Stock Exchange”). The address of the registered office and principal place of business of the Company is 24/F., 
CDW Building, 388 Castle Peak Road, Tsuen Wan, N.T., Hong Kong.

The principal activities of the Group are the manufacturing and trading of electrical and electronic products.

The functional currency of the Company is United States dollars.

2.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”)

In the current year, the Group and the Company have applied the following revised and amendments to HKFRSs issued by the 
Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“HKICPA”):

Amendments to HKFRS
Amendments to HKFRS 7
Amendments to HKFRS 10,
  HKFRS 11 and HKFRS 12
HKFRS 10
HKFRS 11
HKFRS 12
HKFRS 13
HKAS 27 (as revised in 2011)
HKAS 28 (as revised in 2011)
Amendments to HKAS 1
HK (IFRIC)-Int 20

Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2009 – 2011 Cycle
Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
Consolidated Financial Statements, Joint Arrangements
  and Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities: Transition Guidance
Consolidated Financial Statements
Joint Arrangements
Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
Fair Value Measurement
Separate Financial Statements
Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income
Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine

Except as described below, the application of the revised and amendments to HKFRSs in the current year has had no material 
impact on the Group’s and the Company’s financial performance and positions for the current and prior years and/or on the 
disclosures set out in these consolidated financial statements. Besides, the Group has early applied HKAS 19 Retirement Benefits 
in 2012 in advance of its effective date and consistently reported for both years.

HKFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
The Group has applied HKFRS 13 for the first time in the current year. HKFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance for, and 
disclosures about, fair value measurements. The scope of HKFRS 13 is broad: the fair value measurement requirements of HKFRS 
13 apply to both financial instrument items and non-financial instrument items for which other HKFRSs require or permit fair value 
measurements and disclosures about fair value measurements, except for share-based payment transactions that are within the 
scope of HKFRS 2 Share-based Payment, leasing transactions that are within the scope of HKAS 17 Leases, and measurements 
that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value (e.g. net realisable value for the purposes of measuring inventories or 
value in use for impairment assessment purposes).

HKFRS 13 defines the fair value of an asset as the price that would be received to sell an asset (or paid to transfer a liability, in 
the case of determining the fair value of a liability) in an orderly transaction in the principal (or most advantageous) market at the 
measurement date under current market conditions. Fair value under HKFRS 13 is an exit price regardless of whether that price is 
directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. Also, HKFRS 13 includes extensive disclosure requirements.

HKFRS 13 requires prospective application. In accordance with the transition, provisions of HKFRS 13, the Group has not made 
any new disclosures required by HKFRS 13 for the 2012 comparative period (please see note 39.3 for 2013 disclosures). The 
application of HKFRS 13 has not had any material impact on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements.

71

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
2.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) (continued)

Amendments to HKAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income
The Group has applied the amendments to HKAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income. Upon the adoption 
of the amendments to HKAS 1, the Group’s ‘statement of comprehensive income’ is renamed as the ‘statement of profit or loss 
and other comprehensive income’. Furthermore, the amendments to HKAS 1 require additional disclosures to be made in the 
other comprehensive income section such that items of other comprehensive income are grouped into two categories: (a) items 
that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss and (b) items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when 
specific conditions are met. Income tax on items of other comprehensive income is required to be allocated on the same basis – 
the amendments do not change the option to present items of other comprehensive income either before tax or net of tax. The 
amendments have been applied retrospectively, and hence the presentation of items of other comprehensive income has been 
modified to reflect the changes.

Other than the above mentioned presentation changes, the application of the amendments to HKAS 1 does not result in any 
impact on profit or loss, other comprehensive income and total comprehensive income.

New and revised HKFRSs issued but not yet effective
The Group have not early applied the following new and revised HKFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective as at 
January 1, 2013:

Amendments to HKAS 19
Amendments to HKFRSs
Amendments to HKFRSs
HKFRS 9
Amendments to HKFRS 9 and HKFRS 7
Amendments to HKFRS 10,
  HKFRS 12 and HKAS 27
Amendments to HKFRS 32
Amendments to HKFRS 36
Amendments to HKFRS 39
HK(IFRIC) – Int 21

Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions4
Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2010 – 2012 Cycle3
Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2011 – 2013 Cycle4
Financial Instrument2
Mandatory Effective Date of HKFRS 9 and Transition Disclosures2
Investment Entities1

Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities1
Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets1
Novation of Derivatives and Contribution of Hedge Accounting1
Levies1

1 

2 

3 

4 

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2014.

Available for application – the mandatory effective date will be determined when the outstanding phase of HKFRS 9 are finalised.

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after July 1, 2014, with limited exceptions.

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after July 1, 2014.

72

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
2.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) (continued)

Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle
The “Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle” include a number of amendments to various HKFRSs, which are 
summarised below.

The amendments to HKFRS 2 (i) change the definitions of ‘vesting condition’ and ‘market condition’; and (ii) add definitions for 
‘performance condition’ and ‘service condition’ which were previously included within the definition of ‘vesting condition’. The 
amendments to HKFRS 2 are effective for share-based payment transactions for which the grant date is on or after July 1, 2014.

The amendments to HKFRS 3 clarify that contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability should be measured 
at fair value at each reporting date, irrespective of whether the contingent consideration is a financial instrument within the scope 
of HKFRS 9 or HKAS 39 or a non-financial asset or liability. Changes in fair value (other than measurement period adjustments) 
should be recognised in profit and loss. The amendments to HKFRS 3 are effective for business combinations for which the 
acquisition date is on or after July 1, 2014.

The amendments to the basis for conclusions of HKFRS 13 clarify that the issue of HKFRS 13 and consequential amendments to 
HKAS 39 and HKFRS 9 did not remove the ability to measure short-term receivables and payables with no stated interest rate at 
their invoice amounts without discounting, if the effect of discounting is immaterial.

The amendments to HKAS 16 and HKAS 38 remove perceived inconsistencies in the accounting for accumulated depreciation/
amortisation when an item of property, plant and equipment or an intangible asset is revalued. The amended standards clarify 
that the gross carrying amount is adjusted in a manner consistent with the revaluation of the carrying amount of the asset and that 
accumulated depreciation/amortisation is the difference between the gross carrying amount and the carrying amount after taking 
into account accumulated impairment losses.

The amendments to HAKS 24 clarify that a management entity providing key management personnel services to a reporting 
entity is a related party of the reporting entity. Consequently, the reporting entity should disclose as related party transactions 
the amounts incurred for the service paid or payable to the management entity for the provision of key management personnel 
services. However, disclosure of the components of such compensation is not required.

The directors do not anticipate that the application of the amendments included in the “Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2010-
2012 Cycle” will have a material effect on the Group’s consolidated financial statements.

Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle
The “Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle” include a number of amendments to various HKFRSs, which are 
summarised below.

The amendments to HKFRS 13 clarify that the scope of the portfolio exception for measuring the fair value of a group of financial 
assets and financial liabilities on a net basis includes all contracts that are within the scope of, and accounted for in accordance 
with, HKAS 39 or HKFRS 9, even if those contracts do not meet the definitions of financial assets or financial liabilities within 
HKAS 32.

The directors do not anticipate that the application of the amendments included in the “Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2011-
2013 Cycle” will have a material effect on the Group’s consolidated financial statements.

73

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
2.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) (continued)

HKFRS 9 Financial Instruments
HKFRS 9 issued in 2009 introduces new requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets. HKFRS 9 
amended in 2010 includes the requirements for the classification and measurement of financial liabilities and for derecognition, 
and further amended in 2013 to include the new requirements for hedge accounting.

Key requirements of HKFRS 9 are described as follows:

• 

• 

With regards to financial assets, HKFRS 9 requires all recognised financial assets that are within the scope of HKAS 
39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are subsequently measured at amortised cost or fair value. 
Specifically, debt investments that are held within a business model whose objective is to collect the contractual cash flows, 
and that have contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal outstanding, are 
generally measured at amortised cost at the end of subsequent accounting periods. All other debt investments and equity 
investments are measured at their fair values at the end of subsequent reporting periods. In addition, under HKFRS 9, 
entities may make an irrevocable election to present subsequent changes in the fair value of an equity investment (that is 
not held for trading) in other comprehensive income, with only dividend income generally recognised in profit or loss. The 
adoption of HKFRS 9 will require the Group’s and the Company’s available-for-sale investments that are currently measured 
at cost less impairment to be measured at fair value instead of being measured at cost.

With regard to the measurement of financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss, HKFRS 9 requires 
that the amount of change in the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of that 
liability is presented in other comprehensive income, unless the recognition of the effects of changes in the liability’s credit 
risk in other comprehensive income would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss. Changes in fair value 
of financial liabilities attributable to changes in the financial liabilities’ credit risk are not subsequently reclassified to profit 
or loss. Under HKAS 39, the entire amount of the change in the fair value of the financial liability designated as fair value 
through profit or loss was presented in profit or loss.

The new general hedge accounting requirements retain the three types of hedge accounting. However, greater flexibility has been 
introduced to the types of transactions eligible for hedge accounting, specifically broadening the types of instruments that qualify 
for hedging instruments and the types of risk components of non-financial items that are eligible for hedge accounting. In addition, 
the effectiveness test has been overhauled and replaced with the principle of an ‘economic relationship’. Retrospective assessment 
of hedge effectiveness is also no longer required. Enhanced disclosure requirements about an entity’s risk management activities 
have also been introduced.

The directors anticipate that the adoption of HKFRS 9 in the future may have an impact on amounts reported in respect of the 
Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities. However, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of that effect until a 
detailed review has been completed.

Amendments to HKAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions
The amendments to HKAS 19 clarify how an entity should account for contributions made by employees or third parties to defined 
benefit plans, based on whether those contributions are dependent on the number of years of service provided by the employee.

For contributions that are independent of the number of years of service, the entity may either recognise the contributions as a 
reduction in the service cost in the period in which the related service is rendered, or to attribute them to the employees’ periods 
of service using the projected unit credit method; whereas for contributions that are dependent on the number of years of service, 
the entity is required to attribute them to the employees’ periods of service.

The directors of the Company do not anticipate that the application of these amendments to HKAS 19 will have a significant 
impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements.

74

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
2.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) (continued)

Amendments to HKAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
The amendments to HKAS 32 clarify existing application issues relating to the offset of financial assets and financial liabilities 
requirements. Specifically, the amendments clarify the meaning of ‘currently has a legally enforceable right of set-off’ and 
‘simultaneous realisation and settlement’.

The directors of the Company do not anticipate that the application of these amendments to HKAS 32 will have a significant 
impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements as the Group does not have any material financial assets and financial 
liabilities that qualify for offset.

Amendments to HKAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets
The amendments to HKAS 36 remove the requirement to disclose the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit (CGU) to 
which goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives had been allocated when there has been no impairment or 
reversal of impairment of the related CGU. Furthermore, the amendments introduce additional disclosure requirements regarding 
the fair value hierarchy, key assumptions and valuation techniques used when the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU was 
determined based on its fair value less costs of disposal.

The directors of the Company do not anticipate that the application of these amendments to HKAS 36 will have a significant 
impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements.

Amendments to HKAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting
The amendments to HKAS 39 provide relief from the requirement to discontinue hedge accounting when a derivative hedging 
instrument is novated under certain circumstances. The amendments also clarify that any change to the fair value of the derivative 
hedging instrument arising from the novation should be included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness.

The directors of the Company do not anticipate that the application of these amendments to HKAS 39 will have any material effect 
on the Group’s consolidated financial statements as the Group does not have any derivatives that are subject to novation.

HK (IFRIC) – Int 21 Levies
HK (IFRIC) – Int 21 Levies addresses the issue of when to recognise a liability to pay a levy. The Interpretation defines a levy, and 
specifies that the obligating event that gives rise to the liability is the activity that triggers the payment of the levy, as identified 
by legislation. The Interpretation provides guidance on how different levy arrangements should be accounted for, in particular, it 
clarifies that neither economic compulsion nor the going concern basis of financial statements preparation implies that an entity 
has a present obligation to pay a levy that will be triggered by operating in a future period.

The directors of the Company anticipate that the application of HK (IFRIC) – Int 21 will have no effect on the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements as the Group does not have any material levy arrangements.

75

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with HKFRSs issued by the HKICPA. In addition, the 
consolidated financial statements include applicable disclosures required by the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The 
Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”) and by the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance.

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments, 
which are measured at fair values, as explained in the accounting policies set out below.

Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods.

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation 
technique. In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or 
liability if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement 
date. Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure purposes in these consolidated financial statements is determined on such a 
basis, except for share-based payment transactions that are within the scope of HKFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the 
scope of HKAS 17, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realisable value 
in HKAS 2 or value in use in HKAS 36.

In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to 
which the inputs to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in 
its entirety, which are described as follows:

• 

• 

Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at 
the measurement date;

Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly or indirectly; and

• 

Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.

The principal accounting policies are set out below.

Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company 
and its subsidiaries. Control is achieved when the Company:

• 

• 

• 

has the power over the investee;

is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and

has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.

The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or 
more of the three elements of control listed above.

Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control 
of the subsidiary. Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the 
consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income from the date the Group gains control until the date when 
the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.

Profit or loss and each item of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling 
interests. Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling 
interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.

76

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Basis of Consolidation (continued)
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with 
the Group’s accounting policies.

All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the 
Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.

Allocation of total comprehensive income to non-controlling interests
Total comprehensive income and expense of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling 
interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance (effective from January 1, 2010 onwards).

Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in existing subsidiaries
Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing control over the subsidiaries are 
accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of the Group’s interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted 
to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling 
interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to 
owners of the Company.

When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss and is calculated as the difference 
between (i) the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and (ii) the 
previous carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill), and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests. All 
amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to that subsidiary are accounted for as if the Group 
had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities of the subsidiary (i.e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred to another 
category of equity as specified/permitted by applicable HKFRSs). The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary 
at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under HKAS 39, when 
applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or a joint venture.

Business Combinations
Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in a business 
combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets transferred 
by the Group, liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group in 
exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are generally recognised in profit or loss as incurred.

At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value at the 
acquisition date, except that:

• 

• 

• 

deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and 
measured in accordance with HKAS 12 “Income Taxes” and HKAS 19 “Employee Benefits” respectively;

liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree or share-based payment 
arrangements of the Group entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in 
accordance with HKFRS 2 “Share-based Payment” at the acquisition date (see the accounting policy below); and

assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with HKFRS 5 “Non-current Assets Held for 
Sale and Discontinued Operations” are measured in accordance with that standard.

77

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Business Combinations (continued)
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the 
acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any) over the net of the acquisition-
date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. If, after re-assessment, the net of the acquisition-date 
amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount 
of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held interest in the acquiree (if any), 
the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.

Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net 
assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate 
share of the recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on a 
transaction-by-transaction basis. Other types of non-controlling interests are measured at their fair value or, when applicable, on 
the basis specified in another standard.

Where the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a 
contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and considered 
as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration 
that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with the corresponding adjustments made 
against goodwill. Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the 
“measurement period” (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date) about facts and circumstances that existed at 
the acquisition date.

The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period 
adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not 
remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration 
that is classified as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with HKAS 39, or HKAS 37 
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognised in 
profit or loss.

Goodwill
Goodwill arising on an acquisition of a business is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, if any, and is presented 
separately in the consolidated statement of financial position.

For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units (or groups of cash 
generating units) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.

A cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently whenever there 
is indication that the unit may be impaired. For goodwill arising on an acquisition in a reporting period, the cash generating unit to 
which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment before the end of that reporting period.

If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the cash generating unit, the impairment 
loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro 
rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised directly in profit 
or loss in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in 
subsequent periods.

On disposal of the relevant cash generating unit, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the amount 
of profit or loss on disposal.

78

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Investments in Subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are included in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less any identified impairment 
losses. The results of subsidiaries are accounted for by the Company on the basis of dividends received and receivable.

Interests in Associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the 
financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.

The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these consolidated financial statements using the equity 
method of accounting. Under the equity method, investments in associates are initially recognised in the consolidated statement 
of financial position at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Group’s share of profit or loss and other comprehensive 
income of the associates. When the Group’s share of profit or loss of an associate exceeds the Group’s interest in that associate 
(which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the associate), the Group 
discontinues recognising its share of further losses. Additional losses are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred 
legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of that associate.

An investment in an associate is accounted for using the equity method from the date on which the investee becomes an 
associate. On acquisition of the investment in an associate, any excess of the cost of the investment over the Group’s share of the 
net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the investee is recognised as goodwill, which is included within the carrying 
amount of the investment. Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities over the cost 
of the investment, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss in the period in which the investment is acquired.

The requirements of HKAS 39 are applied to determine whether it is necessary to recognise any impairment loss with respect to 
the Group’s investment in an associate or a joint venture. When necessary, the entire carrying amount of the investment (including 
goodwill) is tested for impairment in accordance with HKAS 36 Impairment of Assets as a single asset by comparing its recoverable 
amount (higher of value in use and fair value less costs of disposal) with its carrying amount. Any impairment loss recognised 
forms part of the carrying amount of the investment. Any reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in accordance with HKAS 
36 to the extent that the recoverable amount of the investment subsequently increases.

The Group discontinues the use of the equity method from the date when the investment ceases to be an associate, or when 
the investment (or a portion thereof) is classified as held for sale. When the Group retains an interest in the former associate and 
the retained interest is a financial asset, the Group measures the retained interest at fair value at that date and the fair value is 
regarded as its fair value on initial recognition in accordance with HKAS 39. The difference between the carrying amount of the 
associate at the date the equity method was discontinued, and the fair value of any retained interest and any proceeds from 
disposing of a part interest in the associate is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal of the associate. In 
addition, the Group accounts for all amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to that associate 
on the same basis as would be required if that associate had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. Therefore, if a 
gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income by that associate would be reclassified to profit or loss on the 
disposal of the related assets or liabilities, the Group reclassifies the gain or loss from equity to profit or loss (as a reclassification 
adjustment) when the equity method is discontinued.

When the Group reduces its ownership interest in an associate but the Group continues to use the equity method, the Group 
reclassifies to profit or loss the proportion of the gain or loss that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive income 
relating to that reduction in ownership interest if that gain or loss would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related 
assets or liabilities.

When a group entity transacts with an associate of the Group (such as a sale or contribution of assets), profits and losses resulting 
from the transactions with the associate are recognised in the Group’s consolidated financial statements only to the extent of 
interests in the associate that are not related to the Group.

79

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Intangible Assets

Intangible assets acquired separately
Intangible assets acquired separately and with finite useful lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any 
accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of intangible assets with finite useful lives is provided on a straight-line basis 
over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting 
period, with the effect of any changes in estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis. Alternatively, intangible assets with 
indefinite useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less any subsequent accumulated impairment losses (see the 
accounting policy in respect of impairment losses on tangible and intangible assets below).

An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from use or disposal. Gains or 
losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured at the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in profit or loss in the period when the asset is derecognised.

Intangible assets acquired in a business combination
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised separately from goodwill and are initially measured at their 
fair value at the acquisition date. The cost of such intangible assets is their fair value at the acquisition date.

Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets with finite useful lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any 
accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of intangible assets with finite useful lives is provided on a straight-line basis over 
their estimated useful lives.

Alternatively, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are carried at cost less any subsequent accumulated impairment losses 
(see the accounting policy in respect of impairment losses on tangible and intangible assets below).

Research and Development Expenditure
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.

An internally-generated intangible asset arising from development (or from the development phase of an internal project) is 
recognised only if all of the following have been demonstrated:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale;

the intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it;

the ability to use or sell the intangible asset;

how the intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits;

the availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the 
intangible asset; and

• 

the ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development.

The amount initially recognised for an internally-generated intangible asset is the sum of the expenditure incurred from the date 
when the intangible asset first meets the recognition criteria. Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, 
development expenditure is charged to profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred.

Subsequent to initial recognition, an internally-generated intangible asset is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets acquired separately.

80

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.

The Group and the Company as lessee
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group and the Company at their fair value at the inception of the 
lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the 
consolidation statement of financial position as a finance lease obligation.

Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and a reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate 
of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance expenses are recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless they are 
directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Group’s policy on borrowing 
costs (see the accounting policy below).

Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.

In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability. The 
aggregate benefits of incentives are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis.

Leasehold land and building
When a lease includes both land and building elements, the Group and the Company assess the classification of each element 
as a finance or an operating lease separately based on the assessment as to whether substantially all the risks and rewards 
incidental to ownership of each element have been transferred to the Group or the Company, unless it is clear that both elements 
are operating leases in which case the entire lease is classified as an operating lease. Specifically, the minimum lease payments 
(including any lump-sum upfront payments) are allocated between the land and the building elements in proportion to the relative 
fair values of the leasehold interests in the land element and building element of the lease at the inception of the lease.

To the extent the allocation of the lease payments can be made reliably, interest in leasehold land that is accounted for as an 
operating lease is presented as “lease payments” in the consolidated statement of financial position and is amortised over the 
lease term on a straight-line basis. When the lease payments cannot be allocated reliably between the land and building elements, 
the entire lease is generally classified as a finance lease and accounted for as property, plant and equipment, unless it is clear that 
both elements are operating leases, in which case the entire lease is classified as an operating lease.

Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment including buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for 
administrative purposes, other than construction in progress, are stated in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost 
less subsequent accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.

Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of items of property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land and construction 
in progress, over their estimated useful lives and after taking into account of their estimated residual value, using the straight-line 
method. The estimated useful lives, residual values and defined depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting 
period with the effect of any changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.

Construction in progress includes property, plant and equipment in the course of construction for production or for its own 
use purposes. Construction in progress is carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss. Cost includes professional fees 
capitalised in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. Construction in progress is classified to the appropriate category of 
property, plant and equipment when completed and ready for its intended use. Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as 
other property, plant and equipment, commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.

81

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Property, Plant and Equipment (continued)
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where 
shorter, the term of the relevant lease. However, when there is no reasonable certainty that ownership will be obtained by the end 
of the lease term, assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives.

An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to 
arise from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as the difference 
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item) is included in profit or loss in the period in which the item 
is derecognised.

Impairment Losses on tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill (see the accounting policy in 
respect of goodwill above)
At the end of the reporting period, the Group and the Company review the carrying amounts of its assets to determine whether 
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount 
of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any. When it is not possible to estimate the 
recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which 
the asset belongs. Where a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated 
to individual cash generating units, or otherwise they are allocated to the smallest group of cash generating units for which a 
reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified.

Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least 
annually, and whenever there is an indication that they may be impaired.

The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of 
the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.

If the recoverable amount of an asset (or a cash generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying 
amount of the asset (or a cash generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised 
immediately in profit or loss.

Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or a cash generating unit is increased to the 
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or a cash generating unit in prior years. A 
reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.

Financial Instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position when a group entity 
becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.

Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, 
on initial recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss.

82

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)

Financial Assets
The Group’s and the Company’s financial assets are classified into one of the three categories, including financial assets at fair 
value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”), loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends 
on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition. All regular way purchases or 
sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis. Regular way purchases or sales are purchases 
or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the time frame established by regulation or convention in the 
marketplace.

Effective interest method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income 
over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all 
fees paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) 
through the expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount on initial 
recognition.

Interest income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified as at 
FVTPL, of which interest income is included in net gains or losses.

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets at FVTPL include financial assets held for trading.

A financial asset is classified as held for trading if:

• 

• 

it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near future; or

it is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern 
of short-term profit-taking; or

• 

it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.

Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value arising from remeasurement recognised directly 
in profit or loss in the period in which they arise. The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss includes any dividend or interest 
earned on the financial assets.

Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables (including trade and other receivables, amounts due from 
associates, bills receivable, trade receivables from an associate, loans to subsidiaries, amounts due from subsidiaries and bank 
balances, deposits and cash) are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any identified impairment 
losses (see accounting policy in respect of impairment of financial assets below).

83

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)

Financial Assets (continued)

Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated or not classified as financial assets at FVTPL, loans 
and receivables or held-to-maturity investments.

For available-for-sale equity investments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot 
be reliably measured, they are measured at cost less any identified impairment losses at the end of each reporting period (see 
accounting policy in respect of impairment of financial assets below).

Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of each reporting period. 
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial 
recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the financial assets have been affected.

For all other financial assets, objective evidence of impairment could include:

• 

• 

• 

significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty; or

default or delinquency in interest or principal payments; or

it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.

For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables and trade receivables from an associate, assets that are 
assessed not to be impaired individually are, in addition, subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis. Objective 
evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Group’s and the Company’s past experience of collecting 
payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period of 30 to 120 days, or 
observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.

For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment loss recognised is the difference between the asset’s 
carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original effective 
interest rate.

For financial assets carried at cost, the amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar 
financial asset. Such impairment loss will not be reversed in subsequent periods.

The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of 
trade receivables and trade receivables from an associate, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance 
account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss. When a trade receivable is 
considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off 
are credited to profit or loss.

When an available-for-sale financial asset is considered to be impaired, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss in the period in which the impairment takes place.

84

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)

Financial Assets (continued)

Impairment of financial assets (continued)
For financial assets measured at amortised cost, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of an impairment loss decreases and the 
decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, the previously recognised 
impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset at the date the impairment is 
reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.

Impairment losses on available-for-sale equity investments will not be reversed through profit or loss in subsequent periods. Any 
increase in fair value subsequent to impairment loss is recognised directly in other comprehensive income.

Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by a group entity are classified either as financial liabilities or as equity in 
accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an 
equity instrument.

Equity instrument
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group and the Company after deducting 
all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Group and the Company are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct 
issue costs.

Buy-back of the Company’s own equity instruments is recognised and deducted directly in equity. No gain or loss is recognised in 
profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s own equity instruments.

Effective interest method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense 
over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments (including all 
fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or 
discounts) through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on 
initial recognition.

Interest expense is recognised on an effective interest basis.

Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities (including unsecured borrowings, trade and other payables, bills payable, discounted bills with recourse, 
bank overdrafts and amounts due to subsidiaries) are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest 
method.

Derivative financial instruments and hedging
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date when a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured to their fair value at the end of the reporting period. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss 
immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition 
in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.

85

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)

Hedge accounting
The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions for foreign currency exposure (cash 
flow hedges).

At the inception of the hedging relationship the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the 
hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, 
at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a 
hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.

Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised 
in other comprehensive income and accumulated in hedging reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in profit or loss.

Financial guarantee contracts
A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a 
loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of 
a debt instrument. A financial guarantee contract issued by the Group and the Company and not designated as at fair value 
through profit or loss is recognised initially at its fair value less transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the 
financial guarantee contract. Subsequent to initial recognition, the Group measures the financial guarantee contract at the higher 
of: (i) the amount of obligation under the contract, as determined in accordance with HKAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities 
and Contingent Assets; and (ii) the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in 
accordance with the revenue recognition policy.

Derecognition
The Group and the Company derecognise a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, 
or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the 
Group and the Company neither transfer nor retain substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control 
the transferred asset, the Group and the Company continue to recognise the asset to the extent of its continuing involvement 
and recognises an associated liability. If the Group and the Company retain substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
of a transferred financial asset, the Group and the Company continue to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a 
collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.

On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the sum of the 
consideration received and receivable and the cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive income 
and accumulated in equity is recognised in profit or loss.

On derecognition of a financial asset other than in its entirety, the Group allocates the previous carrying amount of the financial 
asset between the part it continues to recognise, and the part it no longer recognises on the basis of the relative fair values of those 
parts on the date of the transfer. The difference between the carrying amount allocated to the part that is no longer recognised 
and the sum of the consideration received for the part no longer recognised and any cumulative gain or loss allocated to it that had 
been recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in profit or loss. A cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised 
in other comprehensive income is allocated between the part that continues to be recognised and the part that is no longer 
recognised on the basis of the relative fair values of those parts.

Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation specified in the relevant contract is discharged, cancelled or expires. The 
difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised and the consideration paid is recognised in profit or 
loss.

86

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group and the Company have a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable 
that the Group and the Company will be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of 
the obligation. Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end 
of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured 
using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows (where 
the effect of the time value of money is material).

A provision for warranties is recognised at the time the products are sold based on the estimated cost using historical data for the 
level of repairs and replacements.

A provision for restructuring is recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position on condition that the Group has 
a detailed formal plan and has raised a valid expectation to those affected that the plan will be carried out, either by starting to 
implement that plan or by announcing its main features to those affected.

For a provision in relation to employee termination benefits, the liability and expenses are recognised when the Group committed 
to terminate the employment of an employee or group of employees before their normal retirement date or provide termination 
benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.

Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost of inventories is calculated using the first-in, first-out 
method. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price for inventories less all estimated costs of completion and costs 
necessary to make the sales.

Revenue Recognition
Turnover is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods 
sold by the Group and the Company to outside customers in the normal course of business, less returns and allowances, and 
commission income and royalty income received.

Turnover from sales of goods is recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.

Commission income is recognised when services are provided.

Royalty income is recognised on a time proportion basis in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreements.

Interest income from a financial asset is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the 
amount of income can be measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding 
and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that discounts the estimated future cash receipts through the 
expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount on initial recognition.

Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ right to receive payment have been established.

87

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Taxation
Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.

The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the 
consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense that 
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s and the 
Company’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the 
reporting period.

Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are 
generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary 
differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can 
be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from initial recognition of goodwill or 
from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither 
the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.

Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, 
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such 
investments and interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against 
which to utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of the reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is 
settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the 
reporting period.

The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which 
the Group and the Company expect, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and 
liabilities. Deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss, except when it relates to items that are recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity 
respectively.

Current and deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss, except when it relates to items that are recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or 
directly in equity respectively. Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the 
tax effect is included in the accounting for the business combination.

88

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Foreign Currencies
In preparing the financial statements of each individual group entity, transactions in currencies other than the functional currency 
of that entity (foreign currencies) are recorded in its respective functional currency (i.e. the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates) at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At the end of each 
reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates at that date. Non-
monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.

Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are recognised in 
profit or loss in the period in which they arise, except for exchange differences arising on a monetary item that form part of the 
Company’s net investment in a foreign operation, in which case, such exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive 
income and accumulated in equity and will be reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.

For the purposes of presenting the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations 
are translated into the presentation currency of the Group (i.e. United States dollars) at the rate of exchange prevailing at the end 
of each reporting period, and their income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates for the year. Exchange 
differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity under the heading of 
translation reserve (attributed to non-controlling interests as appropriate).

On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e. a disposal of the Group’s entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss 
of control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of significant influence over an associate 
that includes a foreign operation), all of the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation attributable to 
the owners of the Company are reclassified to profit or loss. In addition, in relation to a partial disposal of a subsidiary that does not 
result in the Group losing control over the subsidiary, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are reattributed 
to non-controlling interests and are not recognised in profit or loss. For all other partial disposals (i.e. partial disposals of associates 
that do not result in the Group losing significant influence), the proportionate share of the accumulated exchange differences is 
reclassified to profit or loss.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identifiable assets acquired arising on an acquisition of a foreign operation on or after 
January 1, 2005 are treated as assets and liabilities of that foreign operation and retranslated at the rate of exchange prevailing at 
the end of the reporting date. Exchange differences arising are recognised in the translation reserve.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identifiable assets acquired arising on acquisitions of foreign operations before January 1, 
2005 are treated as non-monetary foreign currency items of the acquirer and reported using the historical exchange rate prevailing 
at the date of the acquisition.

Borrowing Costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that 
necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets 
until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Investment income earned on the temporary 
investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for 
capitalisation.

All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.

89

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Equity-Settled Share-Based Payment Transactions
The fair value of services received determined by reference to the fair value of share options granted at the grant date is expensed 
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity (employee share-based compensation 
reserve).

At the end of each reporting period, the Group and the Company revise its estimates of the number of options that are expected 
to ultimately vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates during the vesting period, such that the cumulative 
expenses reflecting the revised estimate, is recognised in profit or loss, with a corresponding adjustment to employee share-based 
compensation reserve.

At the time when the share options are exercised, the amount previously recognised in employee share-based compensation 
reserve will be transferred to share premium. When the share options are forfeited or are still not exercised at the expiry date, the 
amount previously recognised in the employee share-based compensation reserve will be transferred to retained profits.

Retirement Benefit Schemes
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes and the Mandatory Provident Fund Scheme are charged as 
expenses when employees have rendered service entitling them to the contributions.

For defined benefit retirement benefits plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, 
with actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each annual reporting period. Remeasurement, comprising actuarial 
gains and losses, the effect of the changes to the asset ceiling (if applicable) and the return on plan assets (excluding interest), 
is reflected immediately in the statement of financial position with a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income 
in the period in which they occur. Remeasurement recognised in other comprehensive income is reflected immediately in 
retained earnings and will not be reclassified to profit or loss. Past service cost is recognised in profit or loss in the period of a 
plan amendment. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit 
liability or asset. Defined benefit costs are categorised as follows:

• 

• 

• 

service cost (including current service cost, past service cost, as well as gains and losses on curtailments and settlements);

net interest expense or income; and

remeasurement.

The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the actual deficit or 
surplus in the Group’s defined benefit plans. Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any 
economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.

Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching 
to them and that the grants will be received. Government grants are recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis over the 
periods in which the Group recognised as expenses the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate.

90

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
4.  Key Sources of Accounting Estimates

In the application of the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 3, the directors of the 
Company are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that 
are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and 
other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in 
the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods 
if the revision affects both current and future periods.

Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty
The following are key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the 
reporting period that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within 
the next financial year.

Estimated Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Useful Lives
Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are impaired requires an estimation of the value 
in use of the cash generating units to which goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives have been allocated. The 
value in use calculation requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash generating unit and 
a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value. As at December 31, 2013, the carrying amount of goodwill and 
intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are approximately USD532,488,000 (2012: USD531,160,000) and approximately 
USD213,934,000 (2012: USD177,555,000) respectively. Details of the recoverable amount calculation are disclosed in Note 20.

Useful Lives and Estimated Impairment of Deferred Development Costs
As at December 31, 2013, the carrying amount of deferred development costs of the Group and the Company is USD207,977,000 
(2012: USD182,571,000) and Nil (2012: USD5,909,000) respectively. The estimation of their useful lives impacts the level of 
annual amortisation recorded. The estimation of their useful lives reflects the directors’ best estimate of the periods that future 
economic benefits will be received through the use of the assets. In determining whether the deferred development costs are 
impaired, the management takes into consideration the anticipated revenues and estimated future cash flows from the underlying 
projects, and the progress of these projects. When the actual revenues and future cash flows are less than expected, a material 
loss may arise. Management is confident that the carrying amount of the assets will be recovered in full. This situation will be 
closely monitored, and adjustments will be made in future periods, if future market activity indicates that such adjustments are 
appropriate.

Useful Lives and Impairment Assessment of Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and identified impairment losses. As at December 
31, 2013, the Group’s and the Company’s carrying amount of property, plant and equipment are USD383,949,000 (2012: 
USD384,154,000) and USD1,431,000 (2012: USD2,122,000) respectively. The estimation of their useful lives impacts the 
level of annual depreciation expense recorded. The estimated useful life that the Group and the Company place the equipment 
into production reflects the directors’ estimate of the periods that the Group and the Company intend to derive future economic 
benefits from the use of the Group’s and the Company’s property, plant and equipment. Property, plant and equipment are evaluated 
for possible impairment on a specific asset basis or in groups of similar assets, as applicable. This process requires management’s 
estimate of future cash flows generated by each asset or group of assets. For any instance where this evaluation process indicates 
impairment, the appropriate assets’ carrying values are written down to the recoverable amount and the amount of the write-down 
is charged against the results of operations.

91

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
4.  Key Sources of Accounting Estimates (continued)

Income Taxes
As at December 31, 2013, a deferred tax asset of approximately USD39,747,000 (2012: USD53,704,000) in relation to 
unused tax losses and approximately USD32,860,000 (2012: USD25,242,000) in relation to employee related provisions has 
been recognised in the Group’s consolidated statement of financial position. The realisability of the deferred tax asset mainly 
depends on whether sufficient taxable profits, or taxable temporary differences, will be available in the future. In cases where 
the actual future taxable profits generated are less than expected, a material reversal of the deferred tax assets may arise, which 
would be recognised in profit or loss for the period in which such a reversal takes place. During the year, deferred tax assets of 
approximately USD7,913,000 (2012: USD10,109,000) in relation to unused tax losses were utilised.

Estimated Impairment of Trade and Other Receivables, Bills Receivable and Trade Receivables from an 
Associate
When there is objective evidence of an impairment loss, the Group and the Company take into consideration the estimation of 
future cash flows. The amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and 
the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the 
financial asset’s original effective interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). When the actual 
future cash flows are less than expected, a material impairment loss may arise. As at December 31, 2013, the Group’s and the 
Company’s carrying amount of trade and other receivables, bills receivable and trade receivables/amounts due from associates is 
USD828,205,000 (net of allowance for doubtful debts of USD18,168,000) (2012: USD755,337,000 (net of allowance for doubtful 
debts of USD13,987,000)) and USD20,685,000 (net of allowance for doubtful debts of nil) (2012: USD24,441,000 (net of 
allowance for doubtful debts of nil)).

92

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
5.  Segment Information

Information reported to the executive directors of the Company, being the chief operating decision makers, for the purposes of 
resources allocation and assessment of segment performance focuses on the types of goods sold.

The principal categories of goods supplied are “Power Equipment” and “Floor Care and Appliances”. The Group’s operating 
segments under HKFRS 8 are as follows:

1. 

2. 

Power Equipment – sales of power tools, power tool accessories, outdoor products, and outdoor product accessories for 
consumer, trade, professional and industrial users. The products are available under the MILWAUKEE® , AEG®, RYOBI® and 
HOMELITE® brands plus original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) customers.

Floor Care and Appliances – sales of floor care products and floor care accessories under the HOOVER®, DIRT DEVIL®, VAX® 
brand and ORECK® plus OEM customers.

Information regarding the above segments is reported below.

Segment turnover and results
The following is an analysis of the Group’s turnover and results by reportable and operating segments for the year under review:

For the year ended December 31, 2013

Segment turnover
  External sales

Inter-segment sales

Total segment turnover

Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates.

Result
  Segment results before finance costs
  Finance costs

  Profit before taxation
  Taxation charge

  Profit for the year

Power
Equipment
USD’000

Floor Care
and
Appliances
USD’000

Eliminations
USD’000

Consolidated
USD’000

3,143,915
—

1,155,840
2,384

—
(2,384)

4,299,755
—

3,143,915

1,158,224

(2,384)

4,299,755

261,340

51,740

—

313,080
(36,682)

276,398
(29,036)

247,362

The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in Note 3. Segment 
profit represents the profit earned by each segment without allocation of finance costs. This is the measure reported to the 
executive directors of the Company for the purpose of resources allocation and performance assessment.

No analysis of the Group’s assets and liabilities by operating segment is disclosed as they are not regularly provided to the chief 
operating decision makers for review.

93

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Segment Information (continued)

Other segment information

For the year ended December 31, 2013
Amounts included in the measure of segment profit or loss:

Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment
Write down of inventories
Impairment loss on trade receivables
Depreciation and amortisation

Segment turnover and results

For the year ended December 31, 2012

Segment turnover
  External sales

Inter-segment sales

Total segment turnover

Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates.

Result
  Segment results before finance costs
  Finance costs

  Profit before taxation
  Taxation charge

  Profit for the year

Power
Equipment
USD’000

9,281
—
11,572
3,557
94,288

Floor Care
and
Appliances
USD’000

987,832
854

988,686

Floor Care
and
Appliances
USD’000

833
19,344
18,960
366
44,163

Consolidated
USD’000

10,114
19,344
30,532
3,923
138,451

Eliminations
USD’000

Consolidated
USD’000

—
(14,831)

3,852,418
—

(14,831)

3,852,418

Power
Equipment
USD’000

2,864,586
13,977

2,878,563

228,783

39,090

—

267,873
(45,627)

222,246
(22,139)

200,107

94

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Segment Information (continued)

Other segment information

For the year ended December 31, 2012

Amounts included in the measure of segment profit or loss:

Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Write down of inventories
Impairment loss on trade receivables
Depreciation and amortisation

Turnover from major products
The following is an analysis of the Group’s turnover from its major products:

Power Equipment
Floor Care and Appliances

Total

Power
Equipment
USD’000

3,428
12,354
1,773
89,971

Floor Care
and
Appliances
USD’000

964
2,926
1,655
39,115

Consolidated
USD’000

4,392
15,280
3,428
129,086

2013
USD’000

3,143,915
1,155,840

2012
USD’000

2,864,586
987,832

4,299,755

3,852,418

Geographical information
The Group’s turnover from external customers by geographical location, determined based on the location of the customer and 
information about its non-current assets by geographical location, determined based on the location of the group entity owning the 
assets are detailed below:

North America
Europe
Other countries

Total

Turnover from
external customers

2013
USD’000 

3,120,251
870,119
309,385

2012
USD’000

2,806,909
767,967
277,542

Non-Current Assets*

2013
USD’000

805,065
93,726
513,450

2012
USD’000

775,165
87,962
487,387

4,299,755

3,852,418

1,412,241

1,350,514

* 

Non-current assets exclude financial instruments, deferred tax assets and interests in associates.

Information about major customer
During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Group’s largest customer contributed total turnover of 
USD1,622,819,000 (2012: USD1,459,450,000), of which USD1,568,856,000 (2012: USD1,425,259,000) was under the Power 
Equipment segment and USD53,963,000 (2012: USD34,191,000) was under the Floor Care and Appliances segment. There is 
no other customer contributing more than 10% of total turnover.

95

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Turnover

Turnover represents the fair value of the net amounts received and receivable for goods sold by the Group to outside customers, 
less returns and allowances, and commission and royalty income received during the year and is analysed as follows:

Sale of goods
Commission and royalty income

7.  Other Income

2013
USD’000

4,287,773
11,982

2012
USD’000

3,843,411
9,007

4,299,755

3,852,418

Other income in 2013 mainly comprises the net of gain on a bargain purchase of USD38,319,000, sales of scrap materials, claims 
and reimbursements from customers and vendors, impairment losses on property, plant and equipment and inventories and 
other costs arising from the integration of floor care and appliances manufacturing operations of USD34,659,000 and goodwill 
impairment of USD3,390,000.

Other income in 2012 mainly comprises of the gain on disposal of an associate, sales of scrap materials and claims and 
reimbursements from customers and vendors.

8. 

Interest Income
Interest income represents interest earned on bank deposits.

9.  Finance Costs

Interest on:
  Bank borrowings and overdrafts wholly repayable within five years
  Obligations under finance leases
  Fixed interest rate notes
  Effective interest expense on convertible bonds

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

27,290
355
9,037
—

36,682

28,973
449
10,867
5,338

45,627

96

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. Taxation Charge

Current tax:
  Hong Kong profits tax
  Underprovision in prior years

  Overseas taxation
  Underprovision in prior years

Deferred tax (Note 44):
  Current year

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

(909)
(3,403)

(4,312)

(16,057)
(23,512)

(39,569)

(440)
(305)

(745)

(14,059)
(13,117)

(27,176)

14,845

5,782

(29,036)

(22,139)

Hong Kong Profits Tax is calculated at 16.5% of the estimated assessable profit for both years.

Taxation arising in other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.

Underprovision of income tax in prior periods includes provisions for estimated tax exposures in respect of ongoing tax audits. 
Given the tax provided, no provision for additional income tax, if any, arising from the ongoing tax audits has been recognised as 
such amounts cannot be reliably estimated at this stage.

The tax charges for the year are reconciled as follows:

Profit before taxation

Tax at Hong Kong Profits Tax rate
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries
  operating in other jurisdictions
Tax effect of expenses not deductible

for tax purposes

Tax effect of income not taxable for tax purposes
Tax effect of tax losses and deductible temporary
  differences not recognised
Underprovision in respect of prior years
Others

Tax charge for the year

Details of deferred tax are set out in Note 44.

2013
USD’000

276,398

2013
%

2012
USD’000

222,246

2012
%

(45,606)

16.5%

(36,671)

16.5%

48,259

(17.5%)

36,564

(16.4%)

(7,114)
13,846

(9,099)
(26,915)
(2,407)

(29,036)

2.6%
(5.0%)

3.3%
9.7%
0.9%

10.5%

(5,474)
7,994

(9,781)
(13,422)
(1,349)

(22,139)

2.5%
(3.6%)

4.4%
6.0%
0.6%

10.0%

97

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11. Profit for the Year

Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging (crediting):

Amortisation of intangible assets
Amortisation of lease prepayments
Auditors’ remuneration
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense
Depreciation and amortisation on property, plant and equipment
  Owned assets
  Assets held under finance leases
Fair value gain on interest rate swap
Fair value loss on a warrant
Fair value loss on foreign currency forward contracts
Fair value loss on held-for-trading investments
Gain on disposal of an associate
Impairment loss on available-for-sale investments
Impairment loss on held-for-trading investments
Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment
Impairment loss on trade receivables
Impairment of goodwill
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Net exchange (gain) loss
Operating lease expenses recognised in respect of:
  Motor vehicles
  Plant and machinery
  Premises
  Other assets
Unconditional government grants
Write off of intangible assets
Write down of inventories
Staff costs
  Directors’ remuneration

  Fees
  Other emoluments

Other staff costs
Retirement benefits scheme contributions (other than those

included in the Directors’ emoluments)

  Defined contribution plans
  Defined benefit plans (Note 43)

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

63,415
804
3,251
2,827,445

55,188
783
3,027
2,563,176

73,185
1,047
(1,465)
—
1,081
4,324
—
723
1,402
19,344
3,923
3,390
10,114
(14,951)

14,588
6,115
29,704
2,740
(70)
3,557
30,532

234
22,313

22,547
483,940

71,474
1,641
(101)
222
4,481
2,308
(1,149)
—
—
—
3,428
—
4,392
3,360

13,589
4,700
26,700
2,516
(43)
1,502
15,280

216
18,558

18,774
433,127

2,506
3,724

4,733
4,142

512,717

460,776

Staff costs disclosed above do not include an amount of USD87,871,000 (2012: USD77,584,000) relating to research and 
development activities.

98

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12. Director’s Emoluments

The emoluments paid or payable to each of the eleven (2012: eleven) directors were as follows:

For the year ended December 31, 2013

Other emoluments

Basic salaries
and
allowances
USD’000

Fees
USD’000

Contributions
to retirement
benefits
schemes
USD’000

Bonus paid
USD’000

Share-based
payments
USD’000

—
—
—
—
—
39
39
39
39
39
39

234

1,602
1,505
688
686
327
8
39
21
45
48
24

4,993

2
2
2
2
2
—
—
—
—
—
—

10

3,849
11,344
666
707
379
—
—
—
—
—
—

16,945

68
—
—
—
120
—
36
36
33
36
36

365

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill
Mr Joseph Galli Jr
Mr Kin Wah Chan
Mr Chi Chung Chan
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP
Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Total

For the year ended December 31, 2012

Other emoluments

Basic salaries
and
allowances
USD’000

Fees
USD’000

Contributions
to retirement
benefits
schemes
USD’000

Bonus paid
USD’000

Share-based
payments
USD’000

—
—
—
—
—
36
36
36
36
36
36

216

1,557
1,200
660
660
316
6
38
21
45
48
24

4,575

2
2
2
2
2
—
—
—
—
—
—

10

2,941
9,298
466
500
245
—
—
—
—
—
—

13,450

108
—
—
—
125
—
59
59
54
59
59

523

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill
Mr Joseph Galli Jr
Mr Kin Wah Chan
Mr Chi Chung Chan
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP
Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Total

The bonuses paid were based on performance of the Group.

Total
USD’000

5,521
12,851
1,356
1,395
828
47
114
96
117
123
99

22,547

Total
USD’000

4,608
10,500
1,128
1,162
688
42
133
116
135
143
119

18,774

99

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13. Employees’ Emoluments

Of the five individuals with the highest emoluments in the Group, four (2012: three) were directors of the Company whose 
emoluments are included in Note 12 above. The emoluments of the remaining one (2012: two) individual for the year ended 
December 31, 2013 was as follows:

Basic salaries and allowances
Contributions to retirement benefits schemes
Bonus paid
Other benefit
Share-based payments

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

590
9
885
28
—

1,512

1,056
80
1,323
14
11

2,484

The emoluments of this one (2012: two) highest paid individual for the year ended December 31, 2013 was within the following 
bands:

USD

1,000,001 to 1,500,000
1,500,001 to 2,000,000

No. of persons

2013

—
1

2012

2
—

During each of the two years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, no emoluments have been paid by the Group to the five 
highest paid individuals, including directors, as an inducement to join or upon joining the Group or as compensation for loss of 
office. No director has waived any emoluments during those years.

100

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14. Dividends

Dividends recognised as distributions during the year:
Final dividend paid:
  2012: HK10.75 cents (approximately US1.38 cents)

(2011: HK7.75 cents (approximately US1.00 cent)) per share

25,330

18,185

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

Interim dividend paid:
  2013: HK10.00 cents (approximately US1.29 cents)

(2012: HK6.75 cents (approximately US0.87 cent)) per share

23,554

48,884

15,838

34,023

The final dividend of HK13.75 cents (approximately US1.77 cents) per share with a total of approximately USD32,382,000 in 
respect of the year ended December 31, 2013 (2012: final dividend of HK10.75 cents (approximately US1.38 cents) per share in 
respect of the year ended December 31, 2012) has been proposed by the directors and is subject to approval by the shareholders 
in the Annual General Meeting.

15. Earnings per Share

The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to Owners of the Company is based on the following data:

Earnings for the purpose of basic earnings per share:
  Profit for the year attributable to Owners of the Company
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
  Effective interest on convertible bonds

Earnings for the purpose of diluted earnings per share

Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose
  of basic earnings per share
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
  Share options
  Convertible bonds

Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose
  of diluted earnings per share

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

250,284

200,991

—

5,128

250,284

206,119

1,829,954,083

1,760,169,540

7,168,529
—

5,390,842
64,489,800

1,837,122,612

1,830,050,182

101

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. Property, Plant and Equipment

Freehold
land and
buildings
outside
Hong Kong
(Note)
USD’000

Office
equipment,
furniture and
fixtures
USD’000

Leasehold
improvements
USD’000

Plant and
machinery
USD’000

Motor
vehicles
USD’000

Moulds and
tooling
USD’000

Vessels
USD’000

Construction
in progress
USD’000

Total
USD’000

The Group
Cost
At January 1, 2012
Currency realignment
Additions
Disposals
Reclassification

142,662
912
45
(4,897)
8,723

51,966
488
1,192
(473)
11,117

144,433
1,448
7,944
(4,383)
5,313

196,450
1,363
8,549
(2,625)
4,247

At December 31, 2012

147,445

64,290

154,755

207,984

Currency realignment
Additions
Acquisition of businesses
Disposals
Impairment
Reclassification

1,142
2,060
—
(12,610)
(15,362)
2,061

888
1,166
—
(6,575)
—
441

821
7,635
95
(11,711)
(4,056)
5,994

1,905
9,699
760
(19,730)
(23,005)
9,963

4,674
5
625
(498)
162

4,968

(75)
493
—
(484)
(161)
464

213,436
606
15,681
(38,532)
39,265

230,456

1,060
7,879
—
(61,564)
(20,585)
29,884

2,298
—
—
—
—

2,298

—
—
—
—
—
—

61,574
260
68,928
(3,707)
(68,827)

817,493
5,082
102,964
(55,115)
—

58,228

870,424

494
75,683
—
(2,985)
—
(48,807)

6,235
104,615
855
(115,659)
(63,169)
—

At December 31, 2013

124,736

60,210

153,533

187,576

5,205

187,130

2,298

82,613

803,301

Depreciation and impairment
At January 1, 2012
Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on disposals

At December 31, 2012

Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on disposals
Impairment

39,776
247
5,815
(2,592)

43,246

115
6,699
(6,904)
(6,020)

19,161
203
4,022
(395)

113,590
948
12,109
(3,697)

120,127
583
16,006
(2,279)

22,991

122,950

134,437

187
4,316
(5,770)
—

366
12,450
(10,746)
(3,541)

719
15,425
(18,787)
(17,968)

3,375
19
423
(439)

3,378

(16)
517
(344)
(137)

160,656
236
34,280
(37,090)

158,082

463
34,365
(56,608)
(16,159)

726
—
460
—

1,186

—
460
—
—

At December 31, 2013

37,136

21,724

121,479

113,826

3,398

120,143

1,646

—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—

—

457,411
2,236
73,115
(46,492)

486,270

1,834
74,232
(99,159)
(43,825)

419,352

Carrying amounts
At December 31, 2013

87,600

38,486

32,054

73,750

At December 31, 2012

104,199

41,299

31,805

73,547

1,807

1,590

66,987

72,374

652

1,112

82,613

383,949

58,228

384,154

Note:  Buildings with a carrying amount of USD23,474,000 (2012: USD23,599,000) are erected on leasehold land that is presented as lease prepayments on the 

consolidated statement of financial position.

102

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. Property, Plant and Equipment (continued)

Buildings
outside
Hong Kong 
USD’000

Leasehold
improvements
USD’000

Office
equipment,
furniture
and fixtures
USD’000

Plant and
machinery 
USD’000

Motor
vehicles
USD’000

Moulds and
tooling
USD’000

Total
USD’000

The Company
Cost
At January 1, 2012
Additions
Disposals

At December 31, 2012

Additions
Disposals
Transfer to subsidiaries

At December 31, 2013

Depreciation
At January 1, 2012
Provided for the year
Eliminated on disposals

At December 31, 2012

Provided for the year
Eliminated on disposals
Transfer to subsidiaries

At December 31, 2013

Carrying amounts
At December 31, 2013

At December 31, 2012

3,998
—
(3,998)

—

—
—
—

—

2,111
134
(2,245)

—

—
—
—

—

—

—

2,908
139
(293)

2,754

—
(2,682)
—

72

2,868
33
(293)

2,608

46
(2,614)
—

40

32

146

12,541
1,017
(1,252)

12,306

242
(5,438)
—

7,110

11,044
724
(1,250)

10,518

735
(5,412)
—

5,841

1,269

1,788

3,354
—
(164)

3,190

—
(3,190)
—

—

3,004
341
(164)

3,181

9
(3,190)
—

—

—

9

647
195
(96)

746

—
—
—

746

647
16
(96)

567

49
—
—

616

130

179

5,251
—
(408)

4,843

—
(3,681)
(1,162)

28,699
1,351
(6,211)

23,839

242
(14,991)
(1,162)

—

7,928

5,251
—
(408)

4,843

—
(3,681)
(1,162)

—

—

—

24,925
1,248
(4,456)

21,717

839
(14,897)
(1,162)

6,497

1,431

2,122

The above property, plant and equipment, other than construction in progress, are depreciated on a straight-line basis, at the 
following rates per annum:

Freehold land
Buildings
Leasehold improvements
Office equipment, furniture and fixtures
Plant and machinery
Motor vehicles
Moulds and tooling
Vessels

Nil
21/5% - 62/3%
62/3% - 25%
10% - 331/3%
9% - 33%
10% - 33%
18% - 331/3%
20%  

103

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. Property, Plant and Equipment (continued)

The net book values of properties shown above comprise:

Land and buildings are situated outside
  Hong Kong and are analysed as follows:
  Freehold
  Medium-term lease

The Group

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

64,126
23,474

87,600

80,600
23,599

104,199

The net book values of the Group’s property, plant and equipment include amounts of approximately USD3,416,000 (2012: 
USD4,790,000) in respect of assets held under finance leases.

The gross carrying amount of the Group’s and the Company’s property, plant and equipment include amounts of approximately 
USD217,407,000 and USD4,752,000 (2012: USD274,410,000 and USD20,269,000) respectively in respect of fully depreciated 
property, plant and equipment that are still in use.

17. Lease Prepayments

Cost
At January 1, 2012
Currency realignment

At December 31, 2012

Currency realignment

At December 31, 2013

Amortisation
At January 1, 2012
Currency realignment
Provided for the year

At December 31, 2012

Currency realignment
Provided for the year

At December 31, 2013

Carrying amounts
At December 31, 2013

At December 31, 2012

All lease prepayments are medium-term leases outside Hong Kong.

104

The Group
USD’000

39,148
530

39,678

1,149

40,827

2,716
46
783

3,545

114
804

4,463

36,364

36,133

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. Goodwill

At January 1, 2012
Currency realignment

At December 31, 2012
Currency realignment
Arising on acquisition of a business (Note 45)
Goodwill impairment

At December 31, 2013

Particulars regarding impairment testing of goodwill are disclosed in Note 20.

19. Intangible Assets

Deferred
development
costs
USD’000

Patents
USD’000

Trademarks
USD’000

Manufacturing
know-how
USD’000

Retailer
and service
relationships
USD’000

Non
compete
agreement 
USD’000

The Group
Cost
At January 1, 2012
Currency realignment
Additions
Written off in the year

315,736
15
69,631
(4,175)

43,275
(1)
4,214
(25)

192,370
1
3
(10)

At December 31, 2012

381,207

47,463

192,364

Currency realignment
Additions
Acquisition of businesses
Written off in the year

67
83,691
—
(12,120)

—
5,418
1,857
(28)

—
—
36,379
—

At December 31, 2013

452,845

54,710

228,743

Amortisation
At January 1, 2012
Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on write off

At December 31, 2012

Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on write off

153,404
18
47,887
(2,673)

198,636

67
54,728
(8,563)

23,905
(1)
4,611
(25)

28,490

—
5,111
(28)

7,997
(2)
1,124
(10)

9,109

—
1,124
—

At December 31, 2013

244,868

33,573

10,233

Carrying Amounts
At December 31, 2013

207,977

21,137

218,510

At December 31, 2012

182,571

18,973

183,255

453
—
—
—

453

—
—
—
—

453

453
—
—
—

453

—
—
—

453

—

—

The Group
USD’000

530,856
304

531,160
857
3,861
(3,390)

532,488

Total
USD’000

558,334
15
84,482
(4,210)

638,621

67
89,109
38,236
(12,148)

6,500
—
—
—

6,500

—
—
—
—

—
—
10,634
—

10,634

—
—
—
—

6,500

10,634

753,885

1,300
—
325
—

1,625

—
325
—

—
—
1,241
—

1,241

—
2,127
—

187,059
15
55,188
(2,708)

239,554

67
63,415
(8,591)

1,950

3,368

294,445

4,550

4,875

7,266

459,440

9,393

399,067

105

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19. Intangible Assets (continued)

The Company
Cost
At January 1, 2012

At December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013

Amortisation
At January 1, 2012
Provided for the year

At December 31, 2012

Provided for the year

At December 31, 2013

Carrying Amounts
At December 31, 2013

At December 31, 2012

Deferred
development
costs
USD’000

Patents
USD’000

Total
USD’000

70,808

70,808

56,100
8,799

64,899

5,909

70,808

—

5,909

6,700

6,700

6,698
2

6,700

—

6,700

—

—

77,508

77,508

62,798
8,801

71,599

5,909

77,508

—

5,909

The retailer and service relationships were acquired through business combinations which related to the relationships with retailers 
and service centres.

Deferred development costs are internally generated.

Included in trademarks of the Group, USD213,934,000 (2012: USD177,555,000) are trademarks with indefinite useful lives as 
considered by the management of the Group as having an indefinite useful life because they are expected to contribute to net 
cash inflows indefinitely. The trademarks will not be amortised until their useful lives are determined to be finite. Instead they will 
be tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that they may be impaired. Particulars of the impairment 
testing are disclosed in Note 20.

The above intangible assets, other than trademarks with indefinite useful lives, are amortised on a straight-line basis, at the 
following rates per annum:

Deferred development costs
Patents
Trademarks with finite useful lives
Retailer and service relationships
Non compete agreement

20% - 331/3%
10% - 25%
62/3% - 10%
5%
20%

106

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20. Impairment Testing on Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Useful Lives

As explained in Note 5, the Group uses the types of goods sold for operating segment information. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, goodwill and trademarks with indefinite useful lives set out in Notes 18 and 19 have been allocated to five major individual 
cash generating units (CGUs), including four units in the Power Equipment segment and one unit in the Floor Care and Appliances 
segment. The carrying amounts of goodwill and trademarks as at December 31, 2013 allocated to these units are as follows:

Power Equipment – MET
Power Equipment – HCP
Power Equipment – Drebo
Power Equipment – Baja
Floor Care and Appliances – RAM/Hoover/VAX
Others

Goodwill

Trademarks

2013
USD’000

402,424
7,492
25,483
9,017
75,748
12,324

532,488

2012
USD’000

402,424
7,492
24,626
9,017
75,748
11,853

531,160

2013
USD’000

115,907
30,648
—
3,200
64,179
—

213,934

2012
USD’000

115,907
30,648
—
3,200
27,800
—

177,555

During the year ended December 31, 2013, management of the Group determined to impair goodwill which originally generated 
from a CGU under “Others” amounting to USD3,390,000. No goodwill impairment has been recognised for the year ended 
December 31, 2012.

The basis of the recoverable amounts of the above CGUs and their major underlying assumptions are summarised below:

Power Equipment - MET (“MET”)
The recoverable amount of MET’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That 
calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period and a 
discount rate of 11.5% (2012: 11.5%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for MET are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including 
sales, gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimation are based on MET’s 
past performance, management’s expectations of the market development, the success in new products launched, the success 
in reducing the working capital requirements and the success of the cost cutting strategy implemented by the Group. Cash flow 
projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated using a steady 3.0% (2012: 3.0%) growth rate. Management believes 
that any reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of MET’s goodwill and 
intangibles to exceed the recoverable amounts.

Power Equipment – HCP (“HCP”)
The recoverable amount of HCP’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That 
calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a 
discount rate of 12.0% (2012: 12.0%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for HCP are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including 
sales, gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimation are based on 
HCP’s past performance, management’s expectations of the market development, the success in new products launched and 
the success of the cost cutting strategy implemented. Cash flow projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated without 
considering any growth rate. Management believes that any reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not 
cause the carrying amount of HCP’s goodwill and intangibles to exceed the aggregate recoverable amounts.

107

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20. Impairment Testing on Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Useful Lives (continued)

Power Equipment – Drebo (“Drebo”)
The recoverable amount of Drebo’s goodwill has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation uses cash 
flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a discount rate of 11.0% 
(2012: 11.0%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for Drebo are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including 
sales, gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimation are based on Drebo’s 
past performance, management’s expectations of the market development, the success in new products launched and the cost 
cutting strategies implemented. Cash flow projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated without considering any growth 
rate. Management believes that any reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount 
of Drebo’s goodwill to exceed the recoverable amount.

Power Equipment – Baja (“Baja”)
The recoverable amount of Baja’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That 
calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a 
discount rate of 13.0% (2012: 13.0%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for Baja are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including 
sales, gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimation are based on 
Baja’s past performance, management’s expectations of the market development and the success of the cost cutting strategy 
implemented. Cash flow projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated using a steady 2.0% (2012: 2.0%) growth rate. 
Management believes that any reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of 
Baja’s goodwill and intangibles to exceed the aggregate recoverable amounts.

Floor Care and Appliances – RAM/Hoover/VAX (“RAM/Hoover/VAX”)
The recoverable amount of RAM/Hoover/VAX has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation uses cash 
flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a discount rate of 15.0% 
(2012: 15.3%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for RAM/Hoover/VAX are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/
outflows including sales, gross margin, operating expenses, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. The 
assumptions and estimation are based on RAM/Hoover/VAX’s past performance, management’s expectations of the market 
development, the success in reducing the working capital requirements and the success of the cost cutting strategies 
implemented. Cash flow projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated using a steady 2.0% (2012: nil) growth rate. 
Management believes that any reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of 
RAM/Hoover/VAX’s goodwill and intangibles to exceed the aggregate recoverable amounts.

21. Investments in Subsidiaries/Loans to Subsidiaries

Particulars of the principal subsidiaries of the Company as at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 are set out in Note 52.

Loans to subsidiaries are unsecured, bear fixed interest at 5.275% to 10.150% per annum (2012: 5.275% to 10.150%) and are 
fully repayable by 2022.

108

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013 
 
22. Interests in Associates

Unlisted shares, at cost less impairment 

loss recognised
Share of net assets
Amounts due from associates

The Group

The Company

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

—
—
15,766

15,766

—
—
17,724

17,724

—
—
14,478

14,478

—
—
16,436

16,436

Particulars of the associates as at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 are set out in Note 53.

The amounts due from associates are unsecured, non-interest bearing and are repayable on demand.

At the end of the reporting period, amongst the associates, the Group held 40.8% of the shares of Gimelli International (Holdings) 
Limited and its subsidiaries (together the “Gimelli Group companies”). The Group has discontinued recognising its share of 
the losses of the Gimelli Group companies. The unrecognised share of gain (loss) for the year and cumulatively, extracted from 
the relevant management accounts of the associates, are USD1,025,000 (2012: (USD831,000)) and (USD5,380,000) (2012: 
(USD6,405,000)) respectively.

23. Available-for-sale Investments

The Group

The Company

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

Unlisted equity securities and club membership 
  debentures, at cost less impairment loss recognised

520

1,270  

196

218

As at December 31, 2013, all available-for-sale investments represent investments in unlisted equity securities and club 
membership debentures. They are measured at cost less impairment at the reporting date because the range of reasonable fair 
value estimates is so significant that the directors of the Company are of the opinion that their fair values cannot be measured 
reliably.

24. Inventories

Raw materials
Work in progress
Finished goods

The Group

The Company

2013
USD’000

95,186
11,505
777,539

884,230

2012
USD’000

84,315
12,523
591,738

688,576

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

—
—
—

—

—
—
573

573

109

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25. Trade and other Receivables

Trade receivables
Less: Allowances for doubtful debts

Other receivables

The Group

The Company

2013
USD’000

770,033
(18,168)

751,865
31,930

783,795

2012
USD’000

658,929
(13,987)

644,942
43,981

688,923

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

—
—

—
6,207

6,207

—
—

—
8,005

8,005

The aged analysis of trade receivables, net of allowances for doubtful debts, presented on the basis of the revenue recognition 
date, which is usually the invoice date, at the end of the reporting period is as follows:

0 to 60 days
61 to 120 days
121 days or above

Total trade receivables

The Group

2013
USD’000

625,004
95,120
31,741

751,865

2012
USD’000

557,158
61,899
25,885

644,942

Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses an internal credit scoring system to assess the potential customer’s credit 
quality and defines credit limits by customer. Limits and scoring attributed to customers are reviewed regularly. Trade receivables 
that are neither past due nor impaired have the best credit scoring attributable under the internal credit scoring system used by 
the Group.

Included in the Group’s trade receivable balance are debtors with a carrying amount of USD110,082,000 (2012: USD99,381,000) 
which are past due at the reporting date for which the Group has not provided for impairment loss. The Group does not hold any 
collateral over these balances. The average age of these receivables is 96 days (2012: 88 days).

The Group has a policy of allowing credit periods ranging mainly from 30 days to 120 days. Trade receivables that were past due 
but not provided for impairment loss are related to a number of independent customers that have a good track record with the 
Group. The management believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of these balances as there has not been a 
significant change in credit quality of the relevant customers and the balances are still considered fully recoverable.

Ageing of trade receivables which are past due but not impaired

1 — 60 days
61 — 120 days
121 — 365 days
1 — 2 years
Over 2 years

Total

110

The Group

2013
USD’000

91,864
4,326
4,433
3,557
5,902

110,082

2012
USD’000

77,416
10,433
4,587
3,820
3,125

99,381

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25. Trade and other Receivables (continued)

Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts

Balance at beginning of the year
Currency realignment
Impairment losses recognised on receivables
Acquisition of businesses
Amounts written off as uncollectible
Amounts recovered during the year

Balance at end of the year

The Group

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

13,987
271
3,923
2,696
(1,848)
(861)

18,168

14,680
258
3,428
—
(3,701)
(678)

13,987

Included in the allowance for doubtful debts are individually impaired trade receivables amounting to USD18,168,000 (2012: 
USD13,987,000) which have the worst credit scoring attributable under the internal credit scoring system used by the Group. The 
Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.

Ageing of impaired trade receivables (by invoice date)

0 - 120 days
121 - 365 days
1 - 2 years
Over 2 years

Total

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2,592
8,419
5,778
1,379

2,474
4,647
5,575
1,291

18,168

13,987

Under certain receivables purchase agreements, a percentage in various pools of trade receivables were factored to banks 
(the “Factored Trade Receivables”). As the Group still retained the risks associated in respect of default payments, the Group 
continued to recognise the Factored Trade Receivables in the consolidated statement of financial position. At the end of the 
reporting period, proceeds from the Factored Trade Receivables of approximately USD74,952,000 (2012: USD75,000,000) were 
recognised as liabilities and included in “Unsecured borrowings – due within one year” in the consolidated statement of financial 
position.

26. Bills Receivable

All the Group’s bills receivable at December 31, 2013 and 2012 are due within 120 days.

27. Amounts Due from/(to) Subsidiaries

The amounts are unsecured, interest-free and payable on demand.

28. Trade Receivables from an Associate

The trade receivables from an associate were aged less than 120 days and are due within 120 days.

111

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29. Derivative Financial Instruments

Assets
Acquisition right of certain property, 
  plant and equipment
Foreign currency forward contracts –
  under hedge accounting
Foreign currency forward contracts –
  not under hedge accounting

Liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts –
  under hedge accounting
Foreign currency forward contracts –
  not under hedge accounting
Interest rate swap

The Group

The Company

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

12,647

5,034

39

17,720

9,603

277
3,202

—

49

5,657

5,706

1,303

5,727
4,667

13,082

11,697

—

653

—

653

4,376

—
3,202

7,578

—

49

—

49

1,303

—
4,667

5,970

Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment
As at December 31, 2013, the Group owned a right to acquire certain property, plant and equipment fair valued at 
USD12,647,000 (2012: nil) which was acquired as part of the acquisition of the Oreck business from the Oreck Bankruptcy 
Estate as disclosed in Note 45. The fair value of the property, plant and equipment was valued on July 25, 2013 by KPMG, an 
independent valuer not related to the Group. The right is expected to be exercised in 2032.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts
The fair values of foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived 
from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts under hedge accounting
At the end of the reporting period, the Group had the following foreign currency forward contracts designated as highly effective 
hedging instruments in order to manage the Group’s foreign currency exposure in relation to future foreign currency sales. The 
terms of the foreign exchange contracts have been negotiated to match the terms of the respective designated hedged items.

Major terms of the foreign currency forward contracts under hedge accounting are as follows:

The Group

2013

Notional amount

Maturity

Exchange rates

Sell EUR 108M, Buy USD
Buy USD 30M, Sell AUD
Sell USD 280M, Buy RMB
Buy USD 91M, Sell GBP
Sell USD 48.2M, Buy EUR

January 30, 2014 to December 31, 2014
February 28, 2014 to June 30, 2014
January 19, 2014 to December 31, 2014
January 6, 2014 to September 15, 2014
January 15, 2014 to October 3, 2014

USD 1.3211 to 1.3682 : EUR 1
AUD 0.9012 to 0.9088 : USD 1
RMB 6.1162 to 6.2285 : USD 1
GBP 0.6085 to 0.6489 : USD 1
USD 1.3020 to 1.3794 : EUR 1

112

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29. Derivative Financial Instruments (continued)

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts under hedge accounting (continued)
The Company

2013

Notional amount

Maturity

Exchange rates

Sell EUR 108M, Buy USD
Buy USD 30M, Sell AUD

January 30, 2014 to December 31, 2014
February 28, 2014 to June 30, 2014

USD 1.3211 to 1.3682 : EUR 1
AUD 0.9012 to 0.9088 : USD 1

The Group and the Company

2012

Notional amount

Maturity

Exchange rates

Sell EUR 82.5M, Buy USD

January 31, 2013 to December 31, 2013

USD 1.2894 to 1.3273 : EUR 1

Major terms of the foreign currency forward contracts not under hedge accounting are as follows:

The Group

2013

Notional amount

Maturity

Exchange rates

Buy USD 12.3M, Sell NZD
Sell CHF 0.6M, Buy EUR
Sell SEK 30M, Buy EUR
Buy USD 6M, Sell GBP

January 20, 2014 to December 22, 2014
January 23, 2014 to June 20, 2014
January 23, 2014 to June 20, 2014
January 15, 2014 to December 2, 2014

USD 0.800: NZD 1
CHF 1.2374 to 1.2386 : EUR 1
SEK 8.7453 to 8.7820 : EUR 1
GBP 0.6144 to 0.6438 : USD 1

2012

Notional amount

Maturity

Exchange rates

Sell PLN 9M, Buy EUR
Buy USD 1.39M, Sell NZD
Buy USD 19.25M, Sell AUD
Buy USD 159M, Sell RMB
Buy USD 72M, Sell GBP
Sell EUR 31M, Buy USD
Sell USD 189M, Buy RMB

January 24, 2013 to September 19, 2013
January 22, 2013 to February 22, 2013
January 22, 2013 to February 22, 2013
January 9, 2013 to October 15, 2013
January 2, 2013 to December 14, 2013
January 15, 2013 to August 1, 2013
January 9, 2013 to December 31, 2013

PLN 4.2247 to 4.3310 : EUR 1
NZD 1.2237 to 1.2259 : USD 1
USD 1.0372 to 1.0399 : AUD 1
RMB 6.2840 to 6.4530 : USD 1
USD 0.6171 to 0.6392 : GBP 1
USD 1.2436 to 1.3137 : EUR 1
RMB 6.3440 to 6.4985 : USD 1

113

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29. Derivative Financial Instruments (continued)

Interest Rate Swap (not under hedge accounting)
The fair value of the interest rate swap of the Group and the Company is measured at the present value of future cash flows 
estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.

Major terms of the interest rate swap are as follows:

The Group and the Company

2013

Notional amount

Maturity

Receive floating

Pay fixed

USD 50,000,000

December 31, 2013 to May 4, 2016

LIBOR

1.2% - 3.1%

2012

Notional amount

USD 62,000,000

Maturity

Receive floating

December 31, 2013 to May 4, 2016

LIBOR

Pay fixed

1.2% - 3.1%

30. Held-for-Trading Investments

The Group’s and the Company’s held-for-trading investments at December 31, 2013 and 2012 are carried at fair value using the 
market bid prices on the reporting date.

Held-for-trading investments include:

Equity securities:
– Listed in US
– Unlisted investment funds

The Group

The Company

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

—
1,000

1,000

5,980
—

5,980

—
1,000

1,000

5,980
—

5,980

31. Bank Balances, Deposits and Cash/Bank Overdrafts

Bank balances carry interest at market rates which range from 0.05% to 0.17% (2012: 0.10% to 0.27%) per annum. Bank 
overdrafts carry interest at market rates which range from 3.25% to 5.00% (2012: 3.25% to 5.00%) per annum.

114

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32. Trade and other Payables

The aged analysis of trade payables presented based on the invoice date at the end of the reporting period is as follows:

0 to 60 days
61 to 120 days
121 days or above

Total trade payables
Other payables

The Group

The Company

2013
USD’000

467,635
148,839
29,502

645,976
393,947

1,039,923

2012
USD’000

309,719
80,517
1,557

391,793
318,698

710,491

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

—
—
5

5
26,398

26,403

—
—
5

5
20,961

20,966

The credit period on the purchase of goods ranges from 30 days to 120 days (2012: 30 days to 120 days). The Group has 
financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are settled within the credit time frame.

33. Bills Payable

All the Group’s bills payable at December 31, 2013 and 2012 are due within 120 days.

34. Warranty Provision

At January 1 ,2012
Currency realignment
Additional provision in the year
Utilisation of provision

At December 31, 2012
Currency realignment
Additional provision in the year
Acquisition of businesses
Utilisation of provision

At December 31, 2013

The Group
USD’000

44,748
356
87,872
(90,581)

42,395
94
91,118
4,231
(85,210)

52,628

The warranty provision represents management’s best estimate of the Group’s outstanding liabilities on products sold, based on 
prior experience and industry averages for defective products. It is expected that the majority of this expenditure will be incurred in 
the next financial year.

115

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35. Restructuring Provision

At January 1, 2012
Currency realignment
Utilisation of provision

At December 31, 2012
Currency realignment
Utilisation of provision

At December 31, 2013

The Group
USD’000

3,743
(14)
(3,202)

527
4
(531)

—

The provision related to the restructuring of the Group’s manufacturing facilities in Germany.

36. Obligations under Finance Leases

It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its land and buildings, plant and machinery, fixtures and equipment and motor 
vehicles under finance leases, with lease terms ranging from 3 years to 20 years. Interest rates underlying all obligations under 
finance leases are fixed at the respective contract dates ranging from 7.5% to 22.4% (December 31, 2012: 6.7% to 22.4%). No 
arrangements have been entered into that include contingent rental payments.

The maturity of obligations under finance leases is as follows:

Amounts payable under finance leases:
  Within one year

In more than one year but not more than two years
In more than two years but not more than three years
In more than three years but not more than four years
In more than four years but not more than five years

  More than five years

Less: future finance charges

Present value of lease obligations

Less: Amount due within one year shown
  under current liabilities

Amount due after one year

The Group

Minimum lease payments

Present value of
minimum lease payments

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

1,245
1,330
785
298
298
1,099

5,055
(905)

4,150

1,518
1,301
1,199
785
298
1,397

6,498
(1,273)

5,225

977
1,137
663
202
218
953

4,150
—

4,150

(977)

3,173

1,154
1,028
1,007
663
202
1,171

5,225
—

5,225

(1,154)

4,071

The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by charges over the leased assets.

37. Discounted Bills with Recourse

Bills discounted with banks at an effective interest rate of 1.53% per annum (2012: 1.79% per annum) have maturity profiles of 
less than 120 days.

116

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38. Capital Risk Management

The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the 
return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The Group’s overall strategy remains unchanged 
from prior years.

The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt (which includes borrowings, discounted bills with recourse and obligations 
under finance leases), net of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to owners of the Company, comprising issued 
share capital, reserves and retained profits.

Gearing ratio
The Group’s management reviews the capital structure on a semi-annual basis. As part of this review, the management considers 
the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital. The Group has a target gearing ratio of not exceeding 35% 
determined as the proportion of net debt to equity. The Group will continue to execute very disciplined control and management of 
its working capital and generate free cash inflows through the growth of the business.

The gearing ratio at the year end was as follows:

Debt (i)
Bank balances, deposits and cash

Net debt
Equity (ii)
Net debt to equity ratio

2013
USD’000

883,157
(698,147)

185,010
1,740,713
10.63%

2012
USD’000

1,017,527
(617,648)

399,879
1,548,877
25.82%

(i) 

Debt comprises obligations under finance leases, discounted bills with recourse, unsecured borrowings and bank overdrafts but excludes bank advances from 

factored trade receivables as detailed in Notes 25, 31, 36, 37 and 40 respectively.

(ii) 

Equity includes all capital and reserves attributable to the owners of the Company.

In addition, based on management recommendations, the Group will balance its overall capital structure through the payment of 
dividends, new share issues and share buy-backs as well as the issue of new debt or the redemption of existing debt.

117

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39. Financial Instruments

39.1 Categories of financial instruments

The Group
Financial assets
Fair value through profit or loss
  Held-for-trading investments

Derivative financial instruments
  Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment
Derivative financial instruments – under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts
Derivative financial instruments – not under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts

Available-for-sale investments

Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents)
  Trade and other receivables
  Bills receivable
  Trade receivables from an associate
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments – under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts
Derivative financial instruments – not under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts

Interest rate swap

Other financial liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Discounted bills with recourse
  Unsecured borrowings
  Bank overdrafts

118

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

1,000

5,980

12,647

5,034

39

17,720

520

783,795
26,054
2,590
698,147

—

49

5,657

5,706

1,270

688,923
48,644
46
617,648

1,510,586

1,355,261

9,603

277
3,202

1,303

5,727
4,667

13,082

11,697

1,039,923
40,613
116,704
829,368
7,887

710,491
39,222
432,633
647,582
7,087

2,034,495

1,837,015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39. Financial Instruments (continued)

39.1 Categories of financial instruments (continued)

The Company
Financial assets
Fair value through profit or loss
  Held-for-trading investments

Derivative financial instruments – under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts

Available-for-sale investments

Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents)
  Other receivables
  Bank balances, deposits and cash
  Loans to/Amounts due from subsidiaries

Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments – under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts
Derivative financial instruments – not under hedge accounting

Interest rate swap

Other financial liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Amounts due to subsidiaries
  Unsecured borrowings

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

1,000

5,980

653

196

49

218

6,207
52,462
1,801,612

8,005
44,978
1,507,897

1,860,281

1,560,880

4,376

3,202

7,578

26,403
579,524
650,495

1,256,422

1,303

4,667

5,970

20,966
513,587
371,772

906,325

119

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39. Financial Instruments (continued)

39.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies

The Group’s corporate treasury function provides risk management advice to the business units, co-ordinates access to 
domestic and international financial markets, monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the 
Group through internal risk reports which analyse exposures by degree and magnitude of risks. These financial risks include 
market risk (including currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk.

The Group seeks to minimise the effects of these risks by using derivative financial instruments or natural hedges to mitigate 
these risk exposures. The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the board of directors, 
which provide written principles on foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, the use of financial derivatives 
and non-derivative financial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity. Compliance with policies is reviewed by 
the internal auditors on a continuous basis. The Group does not enter into or trade derivative financial instruments for 
speculative purposes.

39.2.1  Foreign Currency Risk Management

Subsidiaries of the Group have foreign currency sales and purchases, which expose the Group to foreign currency risk. 
Approximately 24.6% (2012: 24.5%) of the Group’s sales are denominated in currencies other than the functional 
currency of the group entity making the sale, whilst almost 44.1% (2012: 38.2%) of purchases are denominated in the 
group entity’s respective functional currency.

The carrying amounts of certain significant foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at 
the reporting date are as follows:

The Group
Foreign Currency
EURO

The Company
Foreign Currency
EURO

Liabilities

Assets

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

37,671

31,263

194,941

150,462

Liabilities

Assets

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

23,395

2,485

365,022

344,295

Note:  For group entities with their functional currency as the United States dollar, monetary assets and monetary liabilities denominated in Hong Kong 

dollars have no material foreign currency risk exposure as the Hong Kong dollar is pegged with the United States dollar.

The Group requires its group entities to use foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the currency exposure. 
The foreign exchange forward contracts must be in the same currency as the hedged item. On this basis, the Group 
has entered into forward contracts in relation to the foreign currency denominated monetary liabilities amounting to 
USD148,845,000 (2012: USD108,826,000). It is the Group’s policy to negotiate the terms of the hedge derivatives to 
match the terms of the hedged item to maximise hedge effectiveness (see Note 29 for details).

120

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39. Financial Instruments (continued)

39.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

39.2.1  Foreign Currency Risk Management (continued)

Sensitivity analysis
The Group and the Company are mainly exposed to the effects of rate fluctuations in the EURO to USD.

The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 5% increase and decrease in the United States dollar against 
the EURO without considering the foreign currency forward contracts entered at end of the reporting period. 5% is 
the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents 
management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in the EURO:USD foreign exchange rate. The sensitivity 
analysis includes outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and excludes the effect of any foreign 
currency forward contracts held at reporting date. A positive number below indicates an increase in profit for the year 
where the United States dollar weakens 5% against the EURO.

Impact of EURO
Profit for the year (i)

The Group

The Company

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

7,037

5,960

15,287

17,091

(i) 

This is mainly attributable to the exposure outstanding on receivables and payables denominated in EURO at the reporting date.

39.2.2  Interest Rate Risk Management

The Group’s and the Company’s cash flow interest rate risk relates primarily to variable-rate borrowing (see Note 40 
for details of these borrowings), discounted bills with recourse, bank overdrafts and bank balances and deposits. 
In relation to these floating-rate borrowings, the Group aims at keeping certain borrowings at fixed rates. In order to 
achieve this result, the Group enters into interest rate swap contracts to hedge against part of its exposure to potential 
variability of cash flows arising from changes in floating rates (see Note 29 for details). The management continuously 
monitors interest rate fluctuations and will consider further hedging interest rate risk should the need arise.

The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed 
in the liquidity risk management section of this note. The Group’s and the Company’s cash flow interest rate risk is 
mainly concentrated on the fluctuation of London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) arising from the Group’s and the 
Company’s Hong Kong dollar denominated borrowings. In relation to interest bearing bank balances and deposits, the 
Group considers the interest rate risk is insignificance.

The Group’s fair value interest rate risk related primarily to its fixed-rate bank borrowings (see Note 40 for details of 
these borrowings). The Company’s fair value interest rate risk related primarily to its loan to subsidiaries (see Note 21).

During the year, the Group obtained new bank borrowings in the amount of USD1,112 million (2012: USD793 million) 
which are either LIBOR or Hong Kong best lending rates based. The proceeds were used for refinancing the Group’s 
borrowings including the repayment of fixed interest rate notes of USD39,375,000 and other borrowings.

121

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39. Financial Instruments (continued)

39.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

39.2.2  Interest Rate Risk Management (continued)

Sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for non-derivative 
instruments. The analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the end of the reporting period 
was outstanding for the whole year without considering the interest rate swaps entered at the end of the reporting 
period. A 50 basis point increase or decrease in LIBOR is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key 
management personnel and represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.

If interest rates had been 50 basis points higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit 
for the year ended December 31, 2013 would decrease/increase by USD4,293,000 (2012: decrease/increase 
by USD4,765,000). The Company’s profit for the year ended December 31, 2013 would decrease/increase by 
USD3,252,000 (2012: decrease/increase by USD1,859,000). This is mainly attributable to the Group’s and the 
Company’s exposure to interest rates on its variable-rate borrowings.

The Group’s and the Company’s sensitivity to interest rates has decreased and increased during the current period 
mainly due to the decrease and increase in variable rate debt instruments respectively.

39.2.3  Other Price Risk

The Group and the Company are exposed to price risk through its held-for-trading investments and derivative financial 
instruments.

Sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to price risks of equity investments held-
for-trading measured at fair value at the reporting date.

If the prices of the respective equity instruments had been 10% higher/lower the profit for the year ended December 
31, 2013 of the Group and the Company would increase/decrease by USD100,000 (2012: USD598,000) and 
USD100,000 (2012: USD598,000) as a result of the changes in fair value of held-for-trading investments.

39.2.4  Credit Risk Management

As at December 31, 2013, the Group’s and the Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk which will cause a 
financial loss to the Group and the Company due to failure to discharge an obligation by the counterparties and 
financial guarantees provided by the Group and the Company is arising from:

• 

• 

the carrying amount of the respective recognised financial assets as stated in the statements of financial position; 
and

the amount of contingent liabilities in relation to financial guarantees issued by the Group and the Company as 
disclosed in Note 48.

122

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
39. Financial Instruments (continued)

39.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

39.2.4  Credit Risk Management (continued)

In order to minimise the credit risk, the management has delegated a team responsible for determination of credit 
limits, credit approvals and other monitoring procedures to ensure that follow-up action is taken to recover overdue 
debts. In addition, the Group and the Company review the recoverable amount of each individual trade debt and debt 
investments at each reporting date to ensure that adequate impairment losses are made for irrecoverable amounts. 
In this regard, the directors of the Company consider that the Group’s and the Company’s credit risk is significantly 
reduced.

The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with good reputations and credit ratings.

The Group’s concentration of credit risk by geographical location is mainly in North America, where 62.7% (2012: 
65.7%) of the total trade receivables as at December 31, 2013 are located.

The Group has concentration of credit risk at 43.4% (2012: 23.7%) and 57.4% (2012: 36.8%) of the total trade 
receivables were due from the Group’s largest customer and the five largest customers respectively.

39.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management

Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the board of directors which has built an appropriate 
liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Group’s short, medium and long-term funding and 
liquidity management requirements. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking 
facilities and reserve borrowing facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the 
maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.

As at December 31, 2013, the Group has available unutilised overdrafts and short and medium term bank loan 
facilities of approximately USD67 million (2012: USD65 million) and USD1,824 million (2012: USD1,290 million) 
respectively.

Liquidity tables
The following tables detail the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities as well 
as non-derivative financial assets which are included in the maturity analysis. For non-derivative financial assets, the 
tables have been drawn up based on the contractual maturities of the undiscounted cash flow of the financial assets 
unless specified separately. For non-derivative financial liabilities, the tables reflect the undiscounted cash flow of 
financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay. The table includes both 
interest and principal cash flows. To the extent that the interest flows are floating rate, the undiscounted amount is 
derived from the interest rate curve at the end of the reporting period. The inclusion of information on non-derivative 
financial assets is necessary in order to understand the Group’s liquidity risk management as the liquidity is managed 
on a net asset and liability basis.

123

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
39. Financial Instruments (continued)

39.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

39.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity tables (continued)
In addition, the following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments. The tables 
have been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual net cash (inflows) and outflows on derivative instruments 
that settle on a net basis, and the undiscounted gross (inflows) and outflows on those derivatives that require gross 
settlement. When the amount payable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the 
foreign currency exchange rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period. The liquidity analysis for the Group’s 
derivative financial instruments are prepared based on the contractual maturities as the management consider that the 
contractual maturities are essential for an understanding of the timing of the cash flows of derivatives.

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than
1 month/
on demand
USD’000

1-3
months
USD’000

4 months-
1 year
USD’000

1-2 years
USD’000

2+ years
USD’000

Total
undiscounted
cash flows
USD’000

Total carrying
amount at
December 31,
2013
USD’000

The Group
2013
Non-derivative financial
  assets
  Held-for-trading

investments (Note)

  Available-for-sale

investments (Note)

  Trade and other
receivables
  Bills receivable
  Trade receivables from

  an associate
  Bank balances,

—

—

—
—

—

1,000

520

—

—

—

—

607,266
14,994

133,537
10,692

42,992
368

2,580

3

7

—

1,315,196

153,545

43,367

  deposits and cash

0.05% - 0.17%

688,836

9,313

Non-derivative financial

liabilities

  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Discounted bills with

recourse

  Variable rate borrowings
  Fixed rate borrowings
  Bank overdrafts
  Financial guarantee

  contracts

—
—

(621,013)
(15,180)

1.53%
0.97% - 4.23%
7.44%
3.25% - 5.00%

(89,447)
(20,860)
—
(7,887)

(9,099)

(313,378)
(25,433)

(20,757)
(284,885)
(3,562)
—

(105,532)
—

(6,628)
(147,961)
(3,562)
—

—

—

—
—

—

—

—

—
—

—

—

—
—

—

—

—

—
—

1,000

520

1,000

520

783,795
26,054

783,795
26,054

2,590

2,590

698,149

698,147

1,512,108

1,512,106

(1,039,923)
(40,613)

(1,039,923)
(40,613)

—
(119,837)
(99,312)
—

—
(176,315)
—
—

(116,832)
(749,858)
(106,436)
(7,887)

(116,704)
(734,047)
(95,321)
(7,887)

—

—

—

—

(9,099)

—

(763,486)

(648,015)

(263,683)

(219,149)

(176,315)

(2,070,648)

(2,034,495)

124

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39. Financial Instruments (continued)

39.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

39.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity tables (continued)

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than
1 month/
on demand
USD’000

1-3
months
USD’000

4 months-
1 year
USD’000

1-2 years
USD’000

2+ years
USD’000

Total
undiscounted
cash flows
USD’000

Total carrying
amount at
December 31,
2013
USD’000

The Group
2013
Derivatives - net settlement
  Acquisition right of certain

  property, plant &
  equipment
Interest rate swap

  Foreign currency forward

  contracts
  – NZD

Derivatives - gross
  settlement
  Foreign currency forward

  contracts
  – inflow
  – AUD
  – EUR
  – RMB
  – GBP
  – USD

  – outflow
  – AUD
  – EUR
  – RMB
  – GBP
  – USD

—
0.25% - 1.47%

—

—
—
—
—
—

—
—
—
—
—

—
—

(5)

(5)

—
2,899
18,298
32,521
11,933

65,651

—
(2,930)
(17,946)
(33,524)
(12,369)

—
(357)

(13)

(370)

7,528
20,998
40,780
20,993
23,872

114,171

(7,364)
(21,685)
(39,925)
(22,357)
(24,737)

22,472
29,686
225,522
43,511
108,277

429,468

(21,983)
(30,447)
(222,348)
(45,103)
(111,352)

(66,769)

(116,068)

(431,233)

(1,118)

(1,897)

(1,765)

—
(1,040)

—
(1,226)

12,647
(446)

12,647
(3,069)

12,647
(3,202)

(9)

—

—

(1,049)

(1,226)

12,201

(27)

9,551

(27)

9,418

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—

30,000
53,583
284,600
97,025
144,082

609,290

(29,347)
(55,062)
(280,219)
(100,984)
(148,458)

30,000
53,583
284,600
97,025
144,082

609,290

(29,347)
(55,062)
(280,219)
(100,984)
(148,458)

(614,070)

(614,070)

(4,780)

(4,780)

125

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39. Financial Instruments (continued)

39.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

39.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity tables (continued)

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than 
1 month/ 
on demand
USD’000

1-3 
months
USD’000

4 months-
1 year
USD’000

1-2 years
USD’000

2+ years
USD’000

Total
undiscounted
cash flows
USD’000

Total carrying
amount at
December 31,
2012
USD’000

—

—

—
—

—

0.10% - 0.27%

—
—

1.79%
1.01% - 4.36%
6.70% - 7.44%
3.25% - 5.00%

5,980

1,270

322,801
35,369

—

—

315,498
12,883

18

14

525,119

890,557

92,548

420,943

(473,782)
(9,580)

(160,018)
(98,321)
—
(7,087)

(204,800)
(29,508)

(162,816)
(110,793)
(3,562)
—

—

—

50,624
392

14

—

51,030

(31,909)
(134)

(111,598)
(48,294)
(44,256)
—

—

—

—
—

—

—

—

—
—

—

—

—
—

—

—

—

—
—

—
(162,150)
(7,124)
—

—
(104,738)
(99,312)
—

5,980

1,270

688,923
48,644

5,980

1,270

688,923
48,644

46

46

617,667

617,648

1,362,530

1,362,511

(710,491)
(39,222)

(434,432)
(524,296)
(154,254)
(7,087)

(710,491)
(39,222)

(432,633)
(513,375)
(134,207)
(7,087)

—

(12,691)

—

—

—

—

(12,691)

—

(761,479)

(511,479)

(236,191)

(169,274)

(204,050)

(1,882,473)

(1,837,015)

The Group
2012
Non-derivative

financial assets
  Held-for-trading

investments (Note)

  Available-for-sale

investments (Note)

  Trade and other
receivables
  Bills receivable
  Trade receivables from

  an associate

  Bank balances, deposits

  and cash

Non-derivative financial

liabilities

  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Discounted bills with

recourse

  Variable rate borrowings
  Fixed rate borrowings
  Bank overdrafts
  Financial guarantee

  contracts

126

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39. Financial Instruments (continued)

39.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

39.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity tables (continued)

Derivatives - net settlement

Interest rate swap

  Foreign currency forward

  contracts
  – RMB
  – AUD
  – NZD

Derivatives - gross
  settlement
  Foreign currency forward

  contracts
  – inflow
  – EUR
  – RMB
  – GBP
  – USD

  – outflow
  – EUR
  – RMB
  – GBP
  – USD

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than 
1 month/ 
on demand
USD’000

1-3 
months
USD’000

4 months-
1 year
USD’000

1-2 years
USD’000

2+ years
USD’000

Total
undiscounted
cash flows
USD’000

Total carrying
amount at
December 31,
2012
USD’000

0.76% - 2.63%

—

(491)

(1,462)

(1,334)

(1,745)

(5,032)

(4,667)

—
—
—

—
—
—
—

—
—
—
—

(303)
—
—

(303)

(531)
39
(10)

(993)

(2,986)
—
—

(4,448)

—
—
—

—
—
—

(1,334)

(1,745)

(3,820)
39
(10)

(8,823)

(3,820)
39
(10)

(8,458)

2,312
17,417
7,750
—

27,479

(2,355)
(17,000)
(7,834)
—

(27,189)

290

14,621
34,753
11,500
29,088

89,962

(15,222)
(34,000)
(11,804)
(29,680)

(90,706)

(744)

25,841
142,449
52,750
78,483

299,523

(26,309)
(138,000)
(53,148)
(79,145)

(296,602)

2,921

—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—

—

—

—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—

—

—

42,774
194,619
72,000
107,571

416,964

(43,886)
(189,000)
(72,786)
(108,825)

42,774
194,619
72,000
107,571

416,964

(43,886)
(189,000)
(72,786)
(108,825)

(414,497)

(414,497)

2,467

2,467

127

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39. Financial Instruments (continued)

39.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

39.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity tables (continued)

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than
1 month/
on demand
USD’000

1-3 
months
USD’000

4 months-
1 year
USD’000

1-2 years
USD’000

2+ years
USD’000

Total
undiscounted
cash flows
USD’000

Total carrying
amount at
 December 31,
2013
USD’000

—

—
—

1,000

196
5

0.05% - 0.17%

52,462

—

—
—

—

—

—
6,202

—

—

—
—

—

—

—
—

—

1,000

196
6,207

1,000

196
6,207

52,462

52,462

5.28% - 10.15%

8,551

62,214

8,311

8,311

1,274,486

1,280,688

49,865

49,865

1,312,182

2,653,395

1,801,612

1,312,182

2,713,260

1,861,477

—

(2,519)

(4,518)

(19,366)

—

—

(26,403)

(26,403)

—
1.87% - 2.70%

—
(26,896)

—
(284,574)

(579,524)
(61,722)

—
(116,923)

—
(172,657)

(579,524)
(662,772)

(579,524)
(650,495)

—

(128,574)

(60,063)

(69,217)

(38,128)

(57,193)

(353,175)

—

(157,989)

(349,155)

(729,829)

(155,051)

(229,850)

(1,621,874)

(1,256,422)

The Company
2013
Non-derivative financial
  assets
  Held-for-trading

investments (Note)

  Available-for-sale

investments (Note)

  Other receivables
  Bank balances, deposits

  and cash

  Loan to/Amounts due
from subsidiaries
(Note)

Non-derivative financial

liabilities

  Trade and other payables
  Amounts due to
  subsidiaries

  Unsecured borrowings
  Financial guarantee

  contracts

128

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39. Financial Instruments (continued)

39.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

39.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity tables (continued)

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than
1 month/
on demand
USD’000

1-3 
months
USD’000

4 months-
1 year
USD’000

1-2 years
USD’000

2+ years
USD’000

Total
undiscounted
cash flows
USD’000

Total carrying
amount at
 December 31,
2013
USD’000

Derivatives - net settlement

Interest rate swap

0.25% - 1.47%

—

—

(357)

(357)

(1,040)

(1,040)

(1,226)

(1,226)

(446)

(446)

(3,069)

(3,069)

(3,202)

(3,202)

Derivatives - gross
  settlement
  Foreign currency forward

  contracts
  – inflow
  – USD
  – AUD

  – outflow
  – USD
  – AUD

—
—

—
—

11,933
—

11,933

(12,369)
—

(12,369)

(436)

23,872
7,528

31,400

108,277
22,472

130,749

(24,737)
(7,364)

(111,352)
(21,983)

(32,101)

(133,335)

(701)

(2,586)

—
—

—

—
—

—

—

—
—

—

—
—

—

—

144,082
30,000

174,082

144,082
30,000

174,082

(148,458)
(29,347)

(148,458)
(29,347)

(177,805)

(177,805)

(3,723)

(3,723)

129

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39. Financial Instruments (continued)

39.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

39.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity tables (continued)

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than
1 month/
on demand
USD’000

1-3 
months
USD’000

4 months-
1 year
USD’000

1-2 years
USD’000

2+ years
USD’000

Total
undiscounted
cash flows
USD’000

Total carrying
amount at
 December 31,
2012
USD’000

—

—

—

5,980

218

100

0.10% - 0.27%

44,978

—

—

350

—

—

—

7,555

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

5,980

218

8,005

5,980

218

8,005

44,978

44,978

5.28% - 10.15%

4,115

55,391

8,231

8,581

998,513

1,006,068

49,383

49,383

1,340,310

2,400,552

1,507,897

1,340,310

2,459,733

1,567,078

—

(2,308)

(3,644)

(15,014)

—

—

(20,966)

(20,966)

—
1.81% - 2.76%

—
—

—
(73,078)

(513,587)
(45,911)

—
(157,876)

—
(103,943)

(513,587)
(380,808)

(513,587)
(371,772)

—

(293,741)

(229,079)

(149,680)

—

(94,943)

(767,443)

—

(296,049)

(305,801)

(724,192)

(157,876)

(198,886)

(1,682,804)

(906,325)

The Company
2012
Non-derivative financial
  assets
  Held-for-trading

investments (Note)

  Available-for-sale

investments (Note)

  Trade and other
receivables
  Bank balances,

  deposits and cash
  Loan to/Amounts due
from subsidiaries

(Note)

Non-derivative financial

liabilities

  Trade and other payables
  Amounts due to
  subsidiaries

  Unsecured borrowings
  Financial guarantee

  contracts

130

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39. Financial Instruments (continued)

39.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

39.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity tables (continued)

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than
1 month/
on demand
USD’000

1-3 
months
USD’000

4 months-
1 year
USD’000

1-2 years
USD’000

2+ years
USD’000

Total
undiscounted
cash flows
USD’000

Total carrying
amount at
 December 31,
2012
USD’000

Derivatives - net settlement

Interest rate swap

0.76% - 2.63%

Derivatives - gross
  settlement
  Foreign currency forward

  contracts
  – inflow
  – USD

  – outflow
  – USD

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(491)

(491)

(1,462)

(1,462)

(1,334)

(1,334)

(1,745)

(1,745)

(5,032)

(5,032)

(4,667)

(4,667)

29,088

29,088

(29,680)

(29,680)

(592)

78,483

78,483

(79,145)

(79,145)

(662)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

107,571

107,571

107,571

107,571

(108,825)

(108,825)

(108,825)

(108,825)

(1,254)

(1,254)

Note:  Maturities are based on the management’s estimation of the expected realisation of these financial assets.

The amounts included above for financial guarantee contracts are the maximum amounts the Group and the Company 
could be required to settle under the arrangement for the full guaranteed amount if that amount is claimed by the 
counterparty to the guarantee. Based on expectations at the end of the reporting period, the Group and the Company 
considers that it is more likely than not that no amount will be payable under the arrangement. However, this estimate 
is subject to change depending on the probability of the counterparty claiming under guarantee which is a function of 
the likelihood that the financial receivables held by the counterparty which are guaranteed suffer credit losses.

The amount included above for variable interest rate instruments for non-derivative financial liabilities is subject to 
change if changes in variable interest rates differ to those estimates of interest rate determined at the end of the 
reporting period.

131

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39. Financial Instruments (continued)

39.3 Fair Value

The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows:

• 

• 

• 

• 

the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield 
curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the contract;

the fair value of the interest rate swap is measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted 
based on the applicable yield curves derived from noted interest rate;

the fair value of financial assets with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are 
determined with reference to quoted market bid prices; and

the fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) are determined 
in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from 
observable current market transactions.

The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities carried at amortised cost approximate their carrying amounts.

Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position
Fair value of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities are measured on a recurring basis:

Some of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting 
period. The following table gives information about how the fair values of these financial assets and financial liabilities are 
determined (in particular, the valuation technique(s) and inputs used), as well as the level of the fair value hierarchy into 
which the fair value measurements are categorised (Levels 1 to 3) based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value 
measurements is observable.

• 

• 

• 

Level 1: fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical 
assets or liabilities;

Level 2: fair value measurements are those derived from inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that 
are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and

Level 3: fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or 
liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).

132

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
39. Financial Instruments (continued)

39.3 Fair Value (continued)

Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position (continued)

Relationship

of

Significant

unobservable

Financial assets/ financial liabilities

Fair value

hierarchy

and key inputs

input

value

Fair value

Valuation techniques

unobservable

inputs to fair

1) 

Acquisition right of certain property, plant and 

  equipment classified as derivative financial 

instruments in the consolidated statement of 

financial position

2012

—

2013

Acquisition right of

certain property,

plant and

equipment:

USD12,647,000

Level 2 Measured at the fair value of the land 

N/A

N/A

  and buildings associated with the 

  acquisition right which is based on 

  a valuation by 3rd party 

independent valuer.

2) 

Foreign currency forward contracts classified as 

Assets – 

Assets – 

Level 2 Quoted forward exchange rates and 

N/A

N/A

  derivative financial instruments in the consolidated 

USD5,073,000;

USD5,706,000;

  yield curves derived from quoted 

  statement of financial position

and Liabilities –

and Liabilities –

interest rates matching maturities 

USD9,880,000

USD7,030,000

  of the contracts.

3) 

Held-for-trading non-derivative financial assets 

  classified as held-for-trading investments in the 

  consolidated statement of financial position

Unlisted investment

fund: USD1,000,000

—

Level 2 Quoted prices based on the prices 

N/A

N/A

  of stocks invested by the 

investment fund.

4) 

Interest rate swaps classified as derivative financial 

instruments in the consolidated statement of 

financial position

Liabilities (not

designated for

hedging) –

Liabilities (not

designated for

hedging) –

Level 2 Measured at the present value of 

N/A

N/A

future cash flows estimated and 

  discounted based on the applicable 

USD3,202,000;

USD4,667,000

  yield curves derived from quoted 

interest rates.

5) 

Held-for-trading non-derivative financial assets 

—

Listed equity

Level 1 Quoted bid prices in an active market.

N/A

N/A

  classified as held-for-trading investments in the 

  consolidated statement of financial position

securities in US: –

Technology

industry – 

USD5,980,000

The directors of the Company consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at 
amortised cost in the consolidated financial statements approximate their fair values. There were no transfers between Level 
1 and 2 in both periods.

133

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39. Financial Instruments (continued)

39.3 Fair Value (continued)

Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position (continued)

The Group
2013
Financial assets
Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment
Foreign currency forward contracts
Held-for-trading investments

Total

Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts
Interest rate swap

Total

2012
Financial assets
Foreign currency forward contracts
Held-for-trading investments

Total

Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts
Interest rate swap

Total

Level 1
USD’000

Level 2
USD’000

Total
USD’000

—
—
—

—

—
—

—

—
5,980

5,980

—
—

—

12,647
5,073
1,000

18,720

12,647
5,073
1,000

18,720

(9,880)
(3,202)

(9,880)
(3,202)

(13,082)

(13,082)

5,706
—

5,706

(7,030)
(4,667)

5,706
5,980

11,686

(7,030)
(4,667)

(11,697)

(11,697)

134

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39. Financial Instruments (continued)

39.3 Fair Value (continued)

Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position (continued)

The Company
2013
Financial assets
Foreign currency forward contracts
Held-for-trading investments

Total

Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts
Interest rate swap

Total

2012
Financial assets
Foreign currency forward contracts
Held-for-trading investments

Total

Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts
Interest rate swap

Total

Level 1
USD’000

Level 2
USD’000

Total
USD’000

—
—

—

—
—

—

—
5,980

5,980

—
—

—

653
1,000

1,653

(4,376)
(3,202)

(7,578)

49
—

49

(1,303)
(4,667)

(5,970)

653
1,000

1,653

(4,376)
(3,202)

(7,578)

49
5,980

6,029

(1,303)
(4,667)

(5,970)

39.4 Transfer of financial assets

The following were the Group’s financial assets as at December 31, 2013 that were transferred to banks by discounting or 
factoring those trade and bills receivables on a full recourse basis. As the Group has not transferred the significant risks and 
rewards relating to these receivables, it continues to recognise the full carrying amount of the receivables and has recognised 
the cash received on the transfer as discounted bills with recourse (see Note 37) and unsecured borrowings - due within one 
year (see Note 40). These financial assets are carried at amortised cost in the Group’s consolidated statement of financial 
position.

The trade and bills receivable discounted with banks with full recourse at the year end was as follows:

Carrying amount of transferred assets
Carrying amount of associated liabilities

Net position

2013
USD’000

191,656
(191,656)

2012
USD’000

507,633
(507,633)

—

—

135

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40. Unsecured Borrowings

Trust receipt loans
Bank advance from factored trade receivables
Bank loans

Bank borrowings
Fixed interest rate notes (Note)

Total borrowings

The Group

The Company

2013
USD’000

—
74,952
659,095

734,047
95,321

829,368

2012
USD’000

1,050
75,000
437,325

513,375
134,207

647,582

2013
USD’000

—
—
650,495

650,495
—

650,495

2012
USD’000

—
—
371,772

371,772
—

371,772

The borrowings of the Group and the Company are repayable as follows:

Fixed rate
Within one year
In more than one year but not more than two years
In more than two years but not more than five years
Floating rate
Within one year
In more than one year but not more than two years
In more than two years but not more than five years

The Group

The Company

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

—
95,321
—

454,624
113,730
165,693

829,368

39,264
—
94,943

259,626
144,785
108,964

647,582

—
—
—

371,072
113,730
165,693

650,495

—
—
—

118,023
144,785
108,964

371,772

Less: Amount due within one year shown
  under current liabilities

(454,624)

(298,890)

(371,072)

(118,023)

Amount due after one year

374,744

348,692

279,423

253,749

The ranges of effective interest rates (which are also equal to contracted interest rates) on the Group’s borrowings are as follows:

Effective interest rate:
  Fixed-rate borrowings
  Variable-rate borrowings

2013

2012

7.44%
0.97% to 4.23%

6.70% to 7.44%
1.01% to 4.36%

136

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40. Unsecured Borrowings (continued)

The Group’s borrowings that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the relevant group entities are 
set out below:

As at December 31, 2013
As at December 31, 2012

USD’000

210,807
66,603

Note: 

In 2003, the Group issued fixed interest rate notes, through its wholly-owned subsidiary in the US, for an aggregate principal amount of USD145,000,000. The 

notes were issued in two fixed rate tranches, being USD120,000,000 for 10 years at 6.70% per annum and USD25,000,000 for 7 years at 6.09% per annum. 

The proceeds were used to refinance existing medium term debts and for general working capital purposes. During the year, the Group repaid USD39,375,000 

(2012: nil) of the first tranche and the first tranche was then fully repaid. The second tranche was fully repaid in 2010.

In 2005, the Group issued additional fixed interest rate notes, through its wholly-owned subsidiary in the US, for an aggregate principal amount of 

USD200,000,000. The notes were issued in two fixed rate tranches of USD150,000,000 for 10 years at 7.44% per annum and USD50,000,000 for 7 years at 

7.17% per annum. The proceeds were used to finance the acquisition of subsidiaries. During 2012, the Group repaid USD30,000,000 (2013: nil) of the second 

tranche and the second tranche was then fully repaid.

The carrying amount of bank borrowings approximates their fair value as the weighted average interest rates approximate the 
contracted market rates.

41. Share Capital

Ordinary shares
Authorised shares:

Issued and fully paid:
  At the beginning of the year

Issue of shares upon exercise of share options

  Buy-back of shares
  Conversion of convertible bonds

At the end of the year

Details of the share options are set out in Note 49.

2013
Number of
shares

2012
Number of
shares

2013

2012

USD’000

USD’000

2,400,000,000

2,400,000,000

30,769

30,769

1,829,080,941
4,103,000
(3,300,000)
—

1,601,564,252
8,289,000
(4,330,000)
223,557,689

1,829,883,941

1,829,080,941

23,461
52
(42)
—

23,471

20,533
107
(56)
2,877

23,461

During the year, the Company cancelled its own shares through the Stock Exchange as follows:

Month of buy-back

January 2013
July 2013
August 2013
September 2013
November 2013

No. of
ordinary
shares

1,300,000
250,000
1,250,000
250,000
250,000

3,300,000

Price per share

Highest
HKD

14.68
18.38
18.34
19.02
19.16

Lowest
HKD

14.34
18.16
17.74
18.82
18.96

Aggregate
consideration

paid
USD’000

2,430
590
2,911
612
615

7,158 

The shares bought back were cancelled and accordingly the issued share capital of the Company was reduced by USD42,000, 
and the same amount was transferred to the capital redemption reserve. The consideration paid on the buy-back of shares of 
approximately USD7,158,000 was charged to retained profits.

137

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42. Reserves

The Company
At January 1, 2012
Loss for the year
Fair value loss on foreign currency

forward contracts in hedge accounting

Other comprehensive loss for the year

Total comprehensive loss for the year

Shares issued at premium on exercise of options
Buy-back of shares
Recognition of equity settled share-based payments
Lapse of share options
Conversion of convertible bonds
Final dividend - 2011
Interim dividend - 2012

At December 31, 2012
Loss for the year
Fair value loss on foreign currency

forward contracts in hedge accounting

Other comprehensive loss for the year

Total comprehensive loss for the year

Shares issued at premium on exercise of options
Buy-back of shares
Recognition of equity settled share-based payments
Lapse of share options
Final dividend - 2012
Interim dividend - 2013

Share
premium
USD’000

460,372
—

—

—

—

9,388
—
—
—
143,330
—
—

613,090
—

—

—

—

4,473
—
—
—
—
—

Capital
redemption
reserve
USD’000

Convertible
bonds equity
reserve
USD’000

Employee
share-based
compensation
reserve
USD’000

Hedging
reserve
USD’000

127
—

—

—

—

—
56
—
—
—
—
—

183
—

—

—

—

—
42
—
—
—
—

8,833
—

—

—

—

—
—
—
—
(8,833)
—
—

—
—

—

—

—

—
—
—
—
—
—

—

6,608
—

—

—

—

(1,772)
—
578
(2,201)
—
—
—

3,213
—

—

—

—

(840)
—
366
(6)
—
—

—
—

(1,254)

(1,254)

(1,254)

—
—
—
—
—
—
—

(1,254)
—

(2,470)

(2,470)

(2,470)

—
—
—
—
—
—

Retained
profits
USD’000

504,080
(17,142)

—

—

(17,142)

—
(5,653)
—
2,201
—
(18,185)
(15,838)

449,463
(4,715)

—

—

(4,715)

—
(7,158)
—
6
(25,330)
(23,554)

Total
USD’000

980,020
(17,142)

(1,254)

(1,254)

(18,396)

7,616
(5,597)
578
—
134,497
(18,185)
(15,838)

1,064,695
(4,715)

(2,470)

(2,470)

(7,185)

3,633
(7,116)
366
—
(25,330)
(23,554)

At December 31, 2013

617,563

225

2,733

(3,724)

388,712

1,005,509

As at December 31, 2013, the Company’s reserves available for distribution to shareholders comprised the retained profits of 
USD388,712,000 (2012: USD449,463,000).

138

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43. Retirement Benefit Obligations

Defined Contribution Plans:
The Company and its subsidiaries operating in Hong Kong have participated in the Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes (“MPF 
Schemes”) registered under the Mandatory Provident Fund Ordinance since December 2000. The assets of the MPF Schemes are 
held separately from those of the Group, in funds under the control of trustees. The Group contributes 5% of relevant payroll cost 
to the MPF Schemes with maximum amount of HKD15,000 (2012: HKD13,750) per employee per annum, which contribution is 
matched by the employee.

The employees of the Group’s subsidiaries in the PRC are members of a state-managed retirement benefit scheme operated by 
the PRC government. The subsidiaries are required to contribute a specified percentage of payroll costs to the retirement benefit 
scheme to fund the benefits. The only obligation of the Group with respect to the retirement benefit scheme is to make the 
specified contributions.

The Group’s overseas subsidiaries operate a number of defined contribution schemes. Contributions to the defined contribution 
schemes applicable to each year are made at a certain percentage of the employees’ payroll.

The total expense recognised in profit or loss of USD2,506,000 (2012: USD4,733,000) represents contributions payable to these 
plans by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the plans.

Defined Benefits Plans:
The Group operates several defined benefit plans for qualifying employees of its subsidiaries in Germany and the US, of which 
these plans cover substantially all remaining employees that are not covered by defined contribution plans. The defined benefit 
plan is administered by a separate fund that is legally separated from the Group. The board of the pension fund is composed of 
an equal number of representatives from both employers and (former) employees. The board of the pension fund is required by 
law and by its articles of association to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme, i.e. active 
employees, inactive employees, retirees, employers. The board of the pension fund is responsible for the investment policy with 
regard to the assets of the fund. The major defined benefit plans are as follows:

Pension plan obligations (Note i)
Post-retirement, medical and dental plan obligations (Note ii)
Life and medical insurance plan (Note ii)
Post-employment benefit plan obligations (Note iii)
Others

2013
USD’000

95,476
383
1,549
7,694
1,194

106,296

2012
USD’000

82,588
602
1,861
7,862
409

93,322

Note i:  Pension plan obligations

The pension plan obligations are provided in the German operations and includes a plan that pays retirement benefits on service and final pay. In general, 

the benefit plans were closed to new members at the end of 1995. Under the plan, the employees are entitled to retirement benefits varying between 10 and 

20 per cent of final salary (based on the average of the last three years) on attainment of a retirement age of 65. The most recent actuarial valuations of the 

present value of the defined benefit obligations were carried out on October 22, 2013, by BDO Deutsche Warentreuhand Aktiengesellschaft, Germany.

Note ii:  Post-retirement, medical and dental plan obligations/ Life and medical insurance plan

Milwaukee Electric Tool Corporation, a subsidiary of the Group in the US, operates unfunded post-retirement, medical benefits, dental and life insurance 

plans. The most recent actuarial valuations of the present value of the obligations were carried out on January 7, 2014 by Willis North America, Inc.

Note iii:  Post-employment benefit plan obligations

The pension plan obligations are provided by Hoover Inc. for members of IBEW (International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers) Local 1985 employed by 

Hoover. The most recent actuarial valuation of the present value of the obligations were carried out on January 17, 2014 by CBIZ Benefits & Insurance 

Services.

139

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)

Defined Benefits Plans: (continued)
The plans in Germany and the US expose the Group to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and 
salary risk.

Investment risk

Interest risk

Longevity risk

Salary risk

The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate determined by 
reference to high quality corporate bond yields; if the return on plan asset is below this rate, it will create a 
plan deficit.
A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the plan liability; however, this will be partially offset by an 
increase in the return on the plan’s debt investments.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the 
mortality of plan participants both during and after their employment. An increase in the life expectancy of 
the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan 
participants. As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.

The risk relating to benefits to be paid to the dependents of plan members (widow and orphan benefits) is reinsured by an external 
insurance company.

The main actuarial assumptions used were as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement
medical and dental plan

2013

3.00%
2.00%
N/A
2.00%
N/A

2012

3.70%
2.00%
N/A
2.00%
N/A

2013

0.75%
N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

2012

0.75%
N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

Life & medical insurance plan

Post-employment benefit plan

2013

3.50%
N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

2012

2.75%
N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

2013

3.70%
N/A
3.70%
N/A
N/A

2012

3.70%
N/A
4.04%
N/A
N/A

Discount rate
Expected rate of salary increases
Expected return on plan assets
Future pension increases
Medical cost trend rates

The actuarial valuation showed that the market value of plan assets was USD4,489,000 (2012: USD5,838,000) and that the 
actuarial value of these assets represented 36.8% (2012: 42.6%) of the benefits that had accrued to members.

The effect of an increase of one percentage point in the assumed medical cost trend rate on the aggregate of the current service 
cost and interest cost; and the accumulated post-employment benefit obligations are as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement
medical and dental plan

Life & medical insurance plan

Post-employment benefit plan

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

Current service cost and interest cost
Accumulated post-employment benefit
  obligations for medical costs

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

—

5

—

10

3

91

4

128

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

140

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)

Amounts recognised in comprehensive income in respect of the plans are as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement
medical and dental plan

Life & medical insurance plan

Post-employment benefit plan

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

348
3,032

258
3,534

3,380

3,792

—
4

4

—
12

12

—
49

49

—
69

69

—
291

291

—
269

269

10,033

9,024

(99)

(240)

(332)

(100)

(459)

945

10,033

13,413

9,024

12,816

(99)

(95)

(240)

(228)

(332)

(283)

(100)

(31)

(459)

(168)

945

1,214

Service cost:
  Current service cost
Net interest on defined benefit liabilities

Components of defined benefit costs

recognised in profit or loss

Remeasurement on the net defined
  benefit liability:
Actuarial losses (gains) arising from
  changes in financial assumptions

Components of defined benefit costs
recognised in other comprehensive
income

Total

The charge for the year has been included in staff costs.

The amount included in the consolidated statement of financial position arising from the Group’s obligation in respect of the major 
plans is as follows:

Present value of funded obligations
Fair value of plan assets

Present value of unfunded obligations

Pension plan

Post-retirement
medical and dental plan

Life & medical insurance plan

Post-employment benefit plan

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

—
—

—
95,476

95,476

—
—

—
82,588

82,588

—
—

—
383

383

—
—

—
602

602

—
—

—
1,549

1,549

—
—

—
1,861

1,861

2013
USD’000

12,183
(4,489)

7,694
—

7,694

2012
USD’000

13,700
(5,838)

7,862
—

7,862

141

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)

Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligations in the current year in respect of major plans were as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement
medical and dental plan

Life & medical insurance plan

Post-employment benefit plan

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

82,588
4,203
348
10,033
3,032
(4,728)

95,476

72,989
1,286
258
9,024
3,534
(4,503)

82,588

602
—
—
(99)
4
(124)

383

840
—
—
(240)
12
(10)

602

1,861
—
—
(332)
49
(29)

1,549

1,940
—
—
(100)
69
(48)

1,861

13,700
—
—
(657)
482
(1,342)

12,183

14,049
—
—
669
541
(1,559)

13,700

At January 1
Exchange differences
Current service cost
Actuarial losses (gains)
Interest cost
Benefit paid

At December 31

Movements in the fair value of the plan assets in the current year in respect of certain major plans were as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement
medical and dental plan

Life & medical insurance plan

Post-employment benefit plan

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

5,838
—
191
(198)
—
(1,342)

4,489

7,401
—
272
(276)
—
(1,559)

5,838

At January 1
Exchange differences
Expected return on plan assets
Actuarial losses
Contribution from employer
Benefit paid

At December 31

The plan assets of the post-employment benefit plan are cash and cash equivalents in a Federated Money Market Fund with an 
expected return of 3.70% (2012: 4.04%).

The actual return on plan assets was USD198,000 (2012: USD276,000).

Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined obligation is discount rate, if the discount rate is 100 basis 
points higher (lower), the effect on defined benefit obligation would be immaterial.

The Group expects to make a contribution of USD4,500,000 (2012: USD2,000,000) to the defined benefit plans during the next 
financial year.

142

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44. Deferred Tax Assets (Liabilities)

The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised and movements thereon during the current and prior 
year:

Accelerated
tax
depreciation
USD’000

Warranty
provision
USD’000

Convertible
bonds
equity
reserve
USD’000

Employee
related
provision
USD’000

The Group
At January 1, 2012
Currency realignment
Credit (charge) to profit or loss
Credit to equity

At December 31, 2012
Currency realignment
Credit (charge) to profit or loss
Credit to equity
Acquisition of businesses (Note 45)

(6,810)
45
5,162
—

(1,603)
(45)
(251)
—
—

3,040
42
295
—

3,377
(164)
942
—
—

At December 31, 2013

(1,899)

4,155

The Company
At January 1, 2012
(Charge) credit to profit or loss
Credit to equity

At December 31, 2012
(Charge) credit to profit or loss

At December 31, 2013

(2,917)
—
210
2,707

—
—
—
—
—

—

Tax loss
USD’000

2,767
(2,589)
—

178
(48)

130

Tax
losses
USD’000

57,095
445
(3,836)
—

53,704
485
(14,442)
—
—

Inventory
provision
 and LIFO
USD’000

(1,396)
8
2,836
—

1,448
(22)
3,716
—
—

5,142

Others
USD’000

Total
USD’000

(14,609)
536
(9,880)
—

(23,953)
(330)
20,504
—
(3,437)

45,660
1,104
5,782
5,669

58,215
(159)
14,845
3,325
(3,437)

(7,216)

72,789

11,257
28
10,995
2,962

25,242
(83)
4,376
3,325
—

32,860

39,747

Accelerated
tax
depreciation
USD’000

Convertible
bonds
equity reserve
USD’000

(474)
296
—

(178)
48

(130)

(2,917)
210
2,707

—
—

—

Total
USD’000

(624)
(2,083)
2,707

—
—

—

Note: 

Included in Others are the deferred tax impact of the restructuring provision, intellectual properties and other temporary differences.

143

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44. Deferred Tax Assets (Liabilities) (continued)

For the purpose of presentation in the consolidated statement of financial position, certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have 
been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances for financial reporting purposes:

Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax liabilities

The Group

2013
USD’000

79,064
(6,275)

72,789

2012
USD’000

73,892
(15,677)

58,215

At the end of the reporting period, the Group has unused tax losses of USD553 million (2012: USD510 million) available for the 
offset against future taxable profits that carry forward for at least fourteen years. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in 
respect of tax losses of USD413 million (2012: USD324 million) due to the lack of probable future taxable profits.

45. Acquisition of Businesses

In July 2013, the Group acquired certain assets, liabilities and business from the Oreck Bankruptcy Estate (“Oreck”) for a total 
consideration of approximately USD17.2 million. Oreck business was acquired so as to continue the expansion of the Group’s Floor 
Care and Appliance business. Oreck is engaged in trading of floor care products and is included in Floor Care and Appliances 
segment.

In October 2013, the Group acquired certain assets and business from Gimelli Laboratories Company Limited (“G Lab”), a related 
party, for a total consideration of approximately USD4.6 million. G Lab business was acquired so as to create synergy on the 
Group’s Power Equipment business. G Lab is engaged in manufacture and trading of electrical and dental care products and is 
included in Power Equipment segment.

Net Assets Acquired
Property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets
Acquisition right of property, plant and equipment
Deferred tax assets
Inventories
Trade and other receivables, deposits and prepayments
Trade and other payables
Warranty provision
Deferred tax liabilities
Obligation under finance lease – due after one year

Gain on a bargain purchase
Goodwill arising on acquisition of a business

Cash consideration paid during the year

Net cash outflow arising on acquisition:
  Cash consideration paid during the year

Net outflow of cash and cash equivalents in respect of the acquisition of businesses

144

Fair value
USD’000

855
38,236
12,647
2,055
11,383
2,859
(1,890)
(4,231)
(5,492)
(141)

56,281
(38,319)
3,861

21,823

21,823

21,823

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45. Acquisition of Businesses (continued)

The goodwill arising on acquisition of the G Lab business is attributable to the anticipated profitability of the distribution of the 
Group’s Power Equipment products in new markets and the anticipated future operating synergies from the combination.

The acquisition of Oreck was a bargain purchase which gave rise to a gain on a bargain purchase of approximately USD38.3 
million and this amount had been included in other income.

Acquisition-related costs are insignificant and have been excluded from the consideration transferred and have been recognised 
as an expense in the current year.

The businesses acquired contributed approximately USD30,096,000 to the Group’s turnover, and approximately USD532,000 
increase in the Group’s profit before taxation for the period between the respective dates of acquisition and the reporting date as at 
December 31, 2013.

The revenue and profit or loss of the acquired businesses for the current reporting period as though the acquisition date for the 
acquisitions that occurred during the year has been as of the beginning of the annual reporting period is not presented as it was 
impracticable to obtain various values in various acquiree’s operations prior to the acquisition.

46. Major Non-Cash Transactions

During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Group did not enter into finance lease arrangements in respect of assets at the 
inception of the finance leases (2012: USD536,000).

47. Lease Commitments

At the end of the reporting period, the Group and the Company had outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows:

Within one year
In the second to fifth year inclusive
After five years

The Group

The Company

2013
USD’000

31,635
55,989
26,989

2012
USD’000

29,662
62,398
28,707

114,613

120,767

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

780
—
—

780

707
—
—

707

Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group and the Company for certain of its plant and machinery, motor 
vehicles, office properties and other assets. Leases are negotiated for a term ranging from 1 year to 17 years.

145

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48. Contingent Liabilities

The Group

The Company

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

Guarantees given to banks in respect of
  credit facilities utilised by associates

9,099

12,691

9,099

12,691

In addition, the Company has given guarantees to banks in respect of general facilities granted to its subsidiaries. The extent of 
such facilities utilised by the subsidiaries as at December 31, 2013 amounted to USD344,076,000 (2012: USD754,752,000).

49. Share Options

Scheme adopted on May 29, 2007 (“Scheme D”)
Following the termination of Scheme C, a new share option scheme was adopted pursuant to a resolution passed on May 29, 2007 
for recognition of the contribution to the development and growth of the Group by the eligible persons. This scheme will expire on 
May 28, 2017. Under Scheme D, the Board of Directors of the Company may grant share options to the following eligible persons 
(and their wholly owned companies) of the Company, its subsidiaries and any companies in which the Group holds any equity 
interest, to subscribe for shares in the Company:

(i) 

employees; or

(ii)  Non-executive Directors (including Independent Non-executive Directors or officers); or

(iii) 

secondees; or

(iv)  business partners, agents, consultants; or

(v) 

suppliers or customers; or

(vi)  any person or entity that provides research, development or other technological support; or

(vii)  shareholders.

Share options granted must be taken up within 21 days of the date of grant, upon payment of HKD1.00 in cash by way of 
consideration for the grant thereof. Share options may be exercised at any time, subject to vesting conditions from the date of grant 
to the tenth anniversary thereof. The subscription price is set at the highest of: the closing price of the shares on the date of offer 
of the share option; or the average closing price of shares as stated in the daily quotation sheets issued by the Stock Exchange for 
the five trading days immediately preceding the date of offer; or the nominal value of shares on the date of offer.

The maximum number of shares in respect of which share options may be granted under Scheme D is not permitted to exceed 
30.0% of the issued share capital of the Company from time to time or 10.0% of shares in issue as at the adoption date of Scheme D. 
No person shall be granted an option which exceeds 1.0% of the shares in issue as at the date of offer in any 12-month period up 
to the date thereof.

146

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
49. Share Options (continued)

The following table discloses movements in the Company’s share options during the year:

Date of

Share option

Outstanding

share options

granted

scheme

category

at beginning

of the year

Granted

during

the year

Exercised

Outstanding

during

Lapsed during

at end

Subscription

the year

the year

of the year

price

HKD

Exercise period

2013

Share option holders

Directors

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

16.11.2009

26.11.2010

21.5.2012

16.11.2009

16.11.2009

21.5.2012

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

16.11.2009

Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

23.5.2011

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

21.5.2012

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

Total for directors

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

600,000

600,000

570,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

600,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

200,000

250,000

100,000

250,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

8,720,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(1,000,000)

—

(600,000)

—

—

—

(200,000)

—

—

—

(200,000)

—

—

—

—

—

(2,000,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

600,000

600,000

570,000

6.770   16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

8.310   26.11.2010 

-  25.11.2020

8.742  

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

1,000,000

6.770   16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

—

6.770   16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

1,000,000

8.742  

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

—

400,000

200,000

250,000

—

250,000

100,000

250,000

200,000

200,000

250,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

6,720,000

6.770   16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

6.770   16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

9.872  

23.5.2011 

-  22.5.2021

8.742  

21.5.2012 

-   20.5.2022

9.872  

23.5.2011 

-  22.5.2021

8.742  

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

9.872  

23.5.2011 

-  22.5.2021

8.742  

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

6.770   16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

9.872  

23.5.2011 

-  22.5.2021

8.742  

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

6.770   16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

9.872  

23.5.2011 

-  22.5.2021

8.742  

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

147

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
49. Share Options (continued)

The following table discloses movements in the Company’s share options during the year: (continued)

Share option holders

Employees

Total for employees

Total for all categories

Date of

Share option

Outstanding

share options

granted

scheme

category

at beginning

of the year

Granted

during

the year

24.8.2007

16.10.2007

7.11.2007

14.1.2008

17.4.2008

14.5.2008

30.5.2008

11.9.2008

1.12.2008

16.11.2009

7.12.2009

21.12.2009

28.12.2009

13.9.2010

17.1.2011

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

1,180,000

75,000

40,000

605,000

775,000

40,000

426,000

50,000

100,000

3,570,000

100,000

50,000

30,000

500,000

20,000

7,561,000

16,281,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Exercised

Outstanding

during

Lapsed during

at end

Subscription

the year

the year

of the year

(200,000)

(15,000)

—

(87,000)

(175,000)

—

(76,000)

(50,000)

(100,000)

(1,350,000)

—

(50,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(25,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

980,000

60,000

40,000

518,000

575,000

40,000

350,000

—

—

2,220,000

100,000

—

30,000

500,000

20,000

(2,103,000)

(25,000)

5,433,000

(4,103,000)

(25,000)

12,153,000

price

HKD

Exercise period

8.390  

24.8.2007 

-  23.8.2017

8.810   16.10.2007 

-  15.10.2017

8.088  

7.11.2007 

-  6.11.2017

7.566  

14.1.2008 

-  13.1.2018

7.780  

17.4.2008 

-  16.4.2018

7.500  

14.5.2008 

-  13.5.2018

7.546  

30.5.2008 

-  29.5.2018

7.430  

11.9.2008 

-  10.9.2018

2.340  

1.12.2008 

-  30.11.2018

6.770   16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

6.790  

7.12.2009 

-  6.12.2019

6.350   21.12.2009 

-  20.12.2019

6.390   28.12.2009 

-  27.12.2019

7.390  

13.9.2010 

-  12.9.2020

10.436  

17.1.2011 

-  16.1.2021

The following table discloses details of the Company’s share options held by employees (including directors) and movements in 
such holdings during the year:

Option type

Scheme D

Exercisable at the end of the year

Option type

Scheme C
Scheme D

Outstanding
at January 1,
2013

16,281,000

16,281,000

Outstanding
at January 1,
2012

5,475,000
23,730,000

Granted
during
the year

—

—

Exercised
during
the year

Lapsed or
cancelled
during the
year

Outstanding at
December 31,
2013

(4,103,000)

(25,000)

12,153,000

(4,103,000)

(25,000)

12,153,000

Granted
during
the year

Exercised
during
the year

10,743,000

Lapsed or
cancelled
during the
year

Outstanding at
December 31,
2012

—
2,820,000

—
(8,289,000)

(5,475,000)
(1,980,000)

—
16,281,000

Exercisable at the end of the year

12,951,000

29,205,000

2,820,000

(8,289,000)

(7,455,000)

16,281,000

148

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
49. Share Options (continued)

Details of the share options held by the directors included in the above table are as follows:

2013

2012

Outstanding
at January 1

8,720,000

Outstanding
at January 1

Granted
during
the year

Exercised
during
the year

Lapsed
during
the year

Outstanding at
December 31

—

(2,000,000)

—

6,720,000

Granted
during
the year

Exercised
during
the year

Lapsed
during
the year

Outstanding at
December 31

9,800,000

2,820,000

(2,900,000)

(1,000,000)

8,720,000

The following significant assumptions were used to derive the fair values using the Black-Scholes option pricing model:

Exercise
price
HKD

Expected
life of
share
options

Expected
volatility
based on
historical
volatility
of share
prices

Hong Kong
Exchange
Fund
Notes rate

Expected
annual
dividend
yield

8.742

3 years

41%

0.298%

1.5%

Date of grant

For the year ended December 31, 2012
21.5.2012

The share options are vested in parts over 3 years from the date of grant.

Expected volatility was determined by using the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the previous 3 years. The 
expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, 
exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.

The Black-Scholes option pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the volatility of the share 
price. Because changes in subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in the directors’ opinion, the 
existing model does not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of the share options.

The weighted average closing prices of shares immediately before the options grant date during 2012 were HKD8.65.

The closing price of the Company’s shares immediately before date of grant was HKD8.65 in 2012.

The weighted average closing prices of the Company’s shares immediately before various dates during 2013 and 2012 on which 
the share options were exercised were HKD18.22 and HKD14.12 respectively.

The Group recognised a total expense of USD366,000 for the year ended December 31, 2013 (2012: USD578,000) in relation to 
share options granted by the Company.

The fair values of the share options granted in 2012 measured at date of grant was HKD2.11 per option.

The Company had 12,153,000 share options outstanding, which represented approximately 0.66% of the issued share capital of 
the Company as at December 31, 2013. No option was granted and cancelled during the year.

149

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50. Capital Commitments

Capital expenditure in respect of the purchase of
  property, plant and equipment:

  Contracted for but not provided
  Authorised but not contracted for

The Group

The Company

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

17,613
1,134

16,669
1,297

27
—

79
—

51. Related Party Transactions

During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions with its associates, which did not constitute connected 
transactions under Chapter 14A of the Listing Rules:

2013
USD’000

2012
USD’000

Sales income
Equipment charge income
Purchases
Acquisition of certain assets and business (Note 45)
Tenancy compensation

4,730
—
858
4,621
2,000

The remuneration of directors and other members of key management during the year was as follows:

Short-term benefits
Post-employment benefits
Share-based payments

2013
USD’000

34,377
214
365

34,956

19
115
—
—
—

2012
USD’000

29,424
190
575

30,189

Details of the balances and transactions with related parties are set out in the statements of financial position and Notes 21, 22, 
27, 28 and 48.

150

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
52. Particulars of Principal Subsidiaries

Particulars of the principal subsidiaries of the Company as at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 are as follows:

Proportion of
nominal value of issued
capital held by the Company

Directly
%

Indirectly
%

Principal activities

Name of subsidiary

AC (Macao Commercial
  Offshore) Limited

Place of
incorporation/
operation

Issued and fully
paid share capital

Macau

MOP 780,000

Baja, Inc.

US

USD 17.36

DreBo Werkzeugfabrik GmbH *

Germany

EUR 1,000,000

Homelite Consumer Products, Inc.

US

Hoover Inc.

US

USD 10

USD 1

Marco Polo Industries &
  Merchandising Company Limited

Hong Kong

HKD 100,000

Milwaukee Electric Tool Corporation

US

USD 50,000,000

One World Technologies, Inc.

US

USD 10

Royal Appliance International GmbH

Germany

EUR 2,050,000

Royal Appliance Mfg. Co.

US

USD 1

Sang Tech Industries Limited

Hong Kong

HKD 1,000,000

Santo Industries Limited

Hong Kong

HKD 2,000,000

—

—

—

—

—

100

—

—

100

—

100

100

Solar Wide Industrial Limited

Hong Kong

HKD 2,000,000

75.725

100

Trading of power equipment,

floor care and outdoor power

  equipment products

100

100

100

Trading of outdoor power
  equipment products

Trading and manufacture of
  power equipment products

Trading of outdoor power
  equipment products

100

Trading and manufacture of

floor care products

—

100

100

—

100

—

—

—

Trading of household
  electronic and electrical
  products

Trading and manufacture of
  power equipment products

Trading of power equipment
  products

Trading of floor care products

Trading and manufacture of

floor care products

Manufacture of plastic parts

Manufacture of metallic parts

Manufacture of electronic
  products

151

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Place of
incorporation/
operation

Issued and fully
paid share capital

Proportion of
nominal value of issued
capital held by the Company

Principal activities

Directly
%

100

—

100

—

—

—

—

—

—

100

—

Indirectly
%

—

Investment and intellectual
  properties holding

100

Manufacture of power equipment,

floor care and outdoor
  power equipment products

—

Provision of inspection services

100

Trading of power equipment
  products

100

Trading of power equipment,

floor care and outdoor power

  equipment products

100

100

100

100

—

100

Trading of power equipment
  products

Trading of power equipment
  products and outdoor
  power equipment products

Trading of power equipment
  products

Trading and manufacture of
  power equipment products

Trading of power equipment
  products

Trading of power equipment,
floor care and outdoor
  power equipment products

52. Particulars of Principal Subsidiaries (continued)

Name of subsidiary

Techtronic Floor Care
  Technology Limited

Techtronic Industries

(Dongguan) Co. Ltd.#

BVI

PRC

USD 1

USD 47,000,000

Techtronic Industries (Taiwan)
  Co. Ltd.

Taiwan

NTD 5,000,000

Techtronic Industries (UK) Ltd

United Kingdom

GBP 4,000,000

Techtronic Industries Australia
  Pty. Limited

Techtronic Industries Central
  Europe GmbH*

Australia

AUD 19,400,000

Germany

EUR 25,600

Techtronic Industries ELC GmbH*

Germany

EUR 25,000

Techtronic Industries France SAS

France

EUR 14,919,832

Techtronic Industries GmbH

Germany

EUR 20,452,500

Techtronic Industries Korea Limited

Korea

KRW 1,200,000,000

Techtronic Industries Mexico,
  S.A. de C.V.

Mexico

MXN 50,000
(Serie I)
MXN 53,290,717
(Serie II)

152

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
52. Particulars of Principal Subsidiaries (continued)

Name of subsidiary

Place of
incorporation/
operation

Issued and fully
paid share capital

Proportion of
nominal value of issued
capital held by the Company

Principal activities

Techtronic Industries N.Z. Limited

New Zealand

NZD 1,165,500

Directly
%

100

Indirectly
%

—

Trading of power equipment,

floor care and outdoor power

  equipment products

US

USD 10

98.4

1.6

Investment holding

Bermuda

USD 12,000

Techtronic Industries North
  America, Inc.

Techtronic Outdoor Products
  Technology Limited

Techtronic Power Tools
  Technology Limited

Techtronic Product
  Development Limited

BVI

Hong Kong

Techtronic Trading Limited

Hong Kong

TTI Investments (Dongguan)
  Company Limited

Hong Kong

Vax Limited

United Kingdom

USD 1

HKD 2

HKD 2

HKD 2

GBP 30,000
(Ordinary A shares)
GBP 2,500
(Ordinary B shares)

100

100

100

100

100

100

—

—

—

—

—

—

Investment and intellectual
  properties holding

Investment and intellectual
  properties holding

Engage in research &
  development activities

Trading of power equipment,

floor care and outdoor power

  equipment products

Investment holding

Trading of household electrical
  and floor care products

* 

# 

Exempt from the obligation to publish local financial statements.

A wholly foreign owned enterprise.

The above table lists the subsidiaries of the Company which, in the opinion of the directors, principally affected the results or 
assets of the Group. To give details of other subsidiaries would, in the opinion of the directors, result in particulars of excessive 
length.

153

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
52. Particulars of Principal Subsidiaries (continued)

At the end of the reporting period, the Company has other subsidiaries that are not material to the Group. The principal activities of 
these subsidiaries are summarised as follows:

Principal activities

Principal place of business

Number of subsidiaries

Manufacture of power equipment,
floor care and outdoor power

  equipment products
Trading of power equipment, floor care
 and other power equipment product

Investment Holding
Dormant

Europe, Latin America, PRC, US

Canada, Europe, HK, Latin
  America, PRC, US
Australia, BVI, Europe, HK, US
BVI, Europe, HK, US

31/12/2013

31/12/2012

6

30

20
13

6

30

20
13

None of the subsidiaries had any debt securities outstanding at the end of the year, or at any time during the year.

53. Particulars of Associates

Particulars of the associates are as follows:

Name of associate

Gimelli International
(Holdings) Limited

Place of
incorporation/
operation 

Issued and fully paid 
share capital

Proportion of nominal value of
issued capital held
by the Company Directly

The Cayman Islands

USD 6,250

2013
%

40.8

Principal activities

Investment holding

2012
%

40.8

154

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2013Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results

Year ended December 31,

2009
USD’000
(Restated)

2010
USD’000
(Restated)

2011
USD’000
(Restated)

2012
USD’000

2013
USD’000

Turnover

3,074,955

3,382,838

3,667,058

3,852,418

4,299,755

Profit before restructuring, share of
results of associates and taxation

Restructuring costs
Share of results of associates

Profit before taxation
Taxation (charge) credit

Profit for the year

Attributable to:
  Owners of the Company
  Non-controlling interests

Profit for the year

Basic earnings per share (US cents)

Assets and Liabilities

Total assets
Total liabilities

Equity attributable to Owners of the 
  Company
Non-controlling interests

57,362
—
(127)

57,235
8,036

65,271

65,079
192

65,271

4.23

123,165
(26,653)
(155)

96,357
70

96,427

95,556
871

96,427

5.97

161,704
—
(347)

161,357
(9,242)

152,115

152,009
106

152,115

222,246
—
—

222,246
(22,139)

276,398
—
—

276,398
(29,036)

200,107

247,362

200,991
(884)

250,284
(2,922)

200,107

247,362

9.47

11.42

13.68

Year ended December 31,

2009
USD’000

3,049,276
1,999,049

2010
USD’000

3,265,912
2,136,205

2011
USD’000

3,369,616
2,115,488

2012
USD’000

3,581,078
2,024,556

2013
USD’000

4,012,559
2,267,123

1,050,227

1,129,707

1,254,128

1,556,522

1,745,436

1,036,149
14,078

1,114,759
14,948

1,245,576
8,552

1,548,877
7,645

1,740,713
4,723

1,050,227

1,129,707

1,254,128

1,556,522

1,745,436

155

Financial SummaryTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Website
www.ttigroup.com
Earnings results, annual/interim reports are available online.

Listing Information
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
  Ordinary Shares (stock code: 669)
ADR Level 1 Programme (symbol: TTNDY)

Share Registrar and Transfer Office
Tricor Secretaries Limited
Level 22, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East
Hong Kong
Tel: (852) 2980 1888

ADR Depositary
The Bank of New York

Principal Bankers
Bank of America, N.A.
Bank of China
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
Standard Chartered Bank
Citibank, N.A.
The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, LTD

Solicitors
Vincent T.K. Cheung, Yap & Co.

Auditor
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu

Company Secretary
Ms Veronica Ka Po Ng

Trademarks
All trademarks used are intellectual property of their respective 
  owners and are protected under trademark law.

AEG® is a registered trademark and its use is pursuant to a 
  License granted by AB Electrolux (publ).

RYOBI® is a registered trademark and its use is pursuant to a 
  License granted by Ryobi Limited.

Board of Directors

Group Executive Directors
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill
Chairman

Mr Joseph Galli Jr
Chief Executive Officer

Mr Patrick Kin Wah Chan
Mr Frank Chi Chung Chan
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Non-executive Director
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Independent Non-executive Directors
Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Financial Calendar 2014
March 19 
May 21 

: Announcement of 2013 annual results
: Last day to register for the entitlement to
  attend and vote at Annual General Meeting
: Book closure period for the entitlement to
  attend and vote at Annual General Meeting
: Annual General Meeting
: Last day to register for 2013 final dividend
: Book closure period for 2013 final dividend
: Final dividend payment
: Six months interim period end
: Financial year end

May 22-23 

May 23 
May 28 
May 29-30 
June 27 
June 30 
December 31 

Investor Relations Contact
Investor Relations and Communications
Techtronic Industries Co. Ltd.
24/F., CDW Building
388 Castle Peak Road
Tsuen Wan, N.T.
Hong Kong
email: ir@tti.com.hk

156

Corporate InformationTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2013 
 
M18 FUEL™ 4-1/2” / 5” Grinder 
The M18 FUEL™ 4-1/2” / 5” Grinder delivers the power 
of a corded grinder with up to 2X more run time and  
up to 10X longer motor life. It supplies maximum 
sustained power to complete the toughest grinding, 
surface preparation and cutting applications. 

www.ttigroup.com

