Annual Report 2015

Corporate Profile 

Techtronic Industries Company Limited (the “Company” or “TTI”) is  
a world-class leader in design, manufacturing and marketing of Power Tools, 
Accessories, Hand Tools, Outdoor Power Equipment, and Floor Care and 
Appliances for consumers, professional and industrial users in the home 
improvement, repair and construction industries. Our unrelenting strategic 
focus on Powerful Brands, Innovative Products, Operational Excellence and 
Exceptional People drives our culture.

Our brands and products are recognized worldwide for their deep heritage, 
superior quality, outstanding performance and compelling innovation. 
Through a company-wide commitment to innovation and strong customer 
partnerships, we consistently deliver new products that enhance customer 
satisfaction and productivity. This focus and drive provides TTI with  
a powerful platform for sustainable leadership and strong growth.

Founded in 1985 in Hong Kong, TTI has a portfolio of industry leading 
brands, a worldwide customer reach, and over 20,000 staff. TTI is listed  
on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong and in 2015 had worldwide  
annual sales of US$5.0 billion.

Contents

1  Financial Highlights
2  Chairman’s Statement
4  Chief Executive Officer’s Message
6 Review of Operations – Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand Tools

30 Review of Operations – Floor Care and Appliances 
38 Board of Directors 
42 Management’s Discussion and Analysis
45 Corporate Governance Report
54 Environmental, Social and Governance Report
57 Report of the Directors
67 Independent Auditor’s Report
68 Consolidated Financial Statements
74 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

143 Financial Summary
144 Corporate Information

Milestones

1985 OEM

2015 Brands

$0.56m

$5.0b

OEM
Brands

CAGR 
35.5%

1985

1986

1987

1988

1989

1990

1991

1992

1993

1994

1995

1996

1997

1998

1999

2000

1985

1987

1988

1990

1994

1999

Mr Horst 
Pudwill 
founded 
Techtronic 
Industries with  
Prof Roy  
Chi Ping Chung

Began 
supplying 
cordless 
power tools 
to a major
US 
distributor 

Opened first 
manufacturing 
facility in 
Dongguan, 
China  

Listed on  
the Stock 
Exchange 
of Hong Kong 
(stock code: 
669)  

Acquired  
VAX brand  
and Floor Care 
business   

Established  
Level 1 
American 
Depository 
Receipt 
(“ADR”) 
program in US 
(ADR symbol: 
TTNDY)

2002

Acquired 
HOMELITE 
brand and 
business for 
Outdoor Power 
Equipment  

2000-
2004

Acquired 
RYOBI brand 
license and 
businesses for 
Power Tool 
and Outdoor 
Power 
Equipment   

 
US$b

5.0

4.0

3.0

2.0

1.0

0

2015 Annual Sales
US$5.0 billion

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2003

2005

2007

2008

2011

2013

2014

2015

Acquired 
ROYAL and 
DIRT DEVIL 
Floor Care 
brands and 
businesses 

Acquired 
MILWAUKEE, 
AEG and DreBo 
Electric Power 
Tools and 
Accessories 
brands and 
businesses

Acquired  
HOOVER brand 
and Floor Care 
business 

Acquired 
STILETTO  
Hand Tool 
brand and 
business

Asia  
Industrial Park 
commenced 
operation in 
Dongguan, 
China

Asia 
Innovation 
Center 
opened in 
Dongguan, 
China

Acquired 
ORECK brand 
and Floor Care 
business 

Acquired  
EMPIRE Level, 
Layout and 
Measuring 
Tools brand 
and business

2015 marked 
TTI’s 30th 
Anniversary.  
The Company 
achieved  
annual sales of 
US$5.0 billion 

2015
US$’
million

5,038

35.7%

400

354

19.37

5.05

2014
US$’
million

4,753

35.2%

351

300

16.41

4.05

Changes

+6.0%

+50 bpt

+14.0%

+18.0%

+18.0%

+24.6%

Gross Profit Margin 
%

EBIT 
US$m

Financial Highlights

Revenue

Gross profit margin

EBIT

Profit attributable to Owners of the Company

Basic earnings per share (US cents)

Dividend per share (approx. US cents) 

5,038

4,753

Revenue 
US$m

4,300

5,000

4,500

4,000

3,500

3,000

2013

2014

2015

Profit Attributable to Ownders of Company
US$m

Basic Earnings per Share
US cents

Dividend per Share
US cents

5.05

4.05

3.06

5

4

3

2

1

0

2013

2014

2015

1

35.734.220132015201435.23033323134353640030420132015201435120025030035040019.3713.6820132015201416.41101214161820354250201320152014300200230260290320350Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Chairman’s Statement

•  Sales increased 6.0% to a record US$5.0 billion

•  Sales adjusted for foreign currency grew 10.5%

•  Our MILWAUKEE business grew 23.7% adjusted 

for foreign currency

•  Gross margin expanded from 35.2% to 35.7%,  

an increase of 50 basis points

•  Net profit increased 18.0% for the year, 
delivering double-digit growth for eight 
consecutive years

•  Efficient working capital management at  

17.0% of sales

I am pleased to report that in 2015 TTI delivered another record year  
of sales, gross margin, and profit, for our sixth consecutive year. 

This year marks a particularly special milestone for TTI as we 
celebrate our 30th anniversary. Over the years, our disciplined focus 
on our four key strategic drivers of powerful brands, innovative 
products, exceptional people, and operational excellence has enabled 
us to continually improve our financial performance and business 
milestones. It is precisely these drivers that we will remain committed 
to in continuing to deliver outstanding results.

2

Record Financial Performance
Sales for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased 6.0%  
over 2014 to US$5.0 billion driven by continued investment in  
new product development and marketing. Sales before currency 
adjustment rose significantly in all regions demonstrating the  
strength of our brands and product lines. Our largest business,  
Power Equipment, had another exceptional year with sales growth  
of 11.8% to US$4.0 billion, accounting for 78.8% of total sales, and 
an increase in operating profit by 29.7% compared to 2014. In the 
Floor Care and Appliance division, consistent with our strategy in  
the first half of the year, we continued the planned exit of certain 
non-strategic lower margin businesses and categories with sales  
for the year declining 11.2% over 2014 to US$1.0 billion. Looking 
ahead, we are strategically well positioned with our focus on cordless 
and commercial cleaning, leveraging our revitalised product portfolio 
and world-class brands.

Our gross profit margin improved for the seventh consecutive year to 
35.7% from 35.2% last year driven by new product, volume growth, 
and productivity gains. Cost improvement initiatives across our global 
operations delivered significant savings in purchasing, supply chain, 
value engineering, and manufacturing. Our investments in automation 
and lean manufacturing continued driving both labor productivity  
and overall efficiency.

Earnings before interest and taxes, increased by 14.0% to  
US$400 million, with the margin improving by 50 basis points to 
7.9%. Shareholders’ profits rose 18.0% to US$354 million, with 
earnings per share increasing by 18.0% over 2014 to US19.37 cents. 
Working capital as a percent of sales remained low at 17.0% and  
our gearing at 13.4%.

The Board is recommending a final dividend of HK23.25 cents 
(approximately US2.99 cents) per share. Together, with the interim 
dividend of HK16.00 cents (approximately US2.06 cents) per share, 
this will result in a full-year dividend of HK39.25 cents 
(approximately US5.05 cents) per share, against HK31.50 cents 
(approximately US4.05 cents) per share in 2014, an increase of 24.6%.

Innovative Products
Our powerful brands and innovative products are connecting with  
a broader base of new customers, as well as deepening their reach 
with existing users. With our ongoing strategic investment in R&D  
and expertise applying our innovations to solve end-user needs,  
we continue to set the pace in lithium cordless technology expanding 
across platforms and creating exciting new categories in the industrial 
and consumer tools, outdoor products, and floor care segments.  
Our technology is continually setting the bar for innovation in our 
industries, driving transformation. Further, we have expanded our 
capacity for new product development and are launching product 
innovations at an even faster pace. 

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015We are committed to delivering the world’s most advanced cordless 
tool technology in our FUEL product family and industry leading 
lithium cordless platforms in our RYOBI ONE+, RYOBI 36V/40V,  
AEG 18V Brushless, and MILWAUKEE M12 and M18 ranges.  
These platforms are being expanded with innovative new  
products at an unprecedented scale. Break-through development  
of the MILWAUKEE ONE-KEY program is the first ever digitally 
controlled platform for cordless tools and equipment. ONE-KEY 
integrates industry-leading tool electronics with custom-built  
cloud based technology for diagnostics and tool control, alongside  
a state-of-the-art tracking platform. We are leading the industry by 
linking the needs of our end-users more directly with our tools which 
leads to better product development and new marketing channels.

We are relentlessly applying our lithium cordless technologies  
to new products in our outdoor and floor care product ranges.  
We are delivering lithium cordless flexibility and high performance 
brushless motor technology to demanding outdoor tools like chain 
saws and walk-behind lawn mowers. Additionally, our product 
development is on the leading edge of the vacuum industry revolution 
to lithium cordless. Our superior cleaning technology such as 
HOOVER WIND TUNNEL coupled with our comprehensive IP 
portfolio puts us in a leading position in the design and development 
of exciting new floor care products in both the consumer and 
commercial segments of the market.

Highly Focused Category Expansion
We systematically search for opportunities to enter new product 
categories and create new businesses. One example is our successful 
drive into hand tools which continues to expand with a new range  
of HART hammer and striking tools, MILWAUKEE tapes, tool storage 
and plumbing tools and the integration of the EMPIRE brand,  
setting a foundation for future growth. We are fundamentally 
changing the way high-force tools are used by plumbers and 
electricians with our MILWAUKEE FORCE LOGIC range of crimpers, 
knockout and press fit cordless tools, and we have expanded into  
the construction lighting space with the new MILWAUKEE M12  
and M18 cordless lighting solutions. We continue to invest in new 
products, technology and manufacturing to drive our expansion  
in these globally significant markets.

Expanding Global Reach
Our highly selective, targeted expansion into under-represented 
markets continues to deliver results. The MILWAUKEE business, 
which grew 17.7% this past year, is expanding its reach in strategic 
markets across the world, as well as driving gains in North America, 
Australia and key European markets. We are bringing our new 
product stream to market by establishing sales, marketing and 
distribution in these geographies.

Delivering Operational Excellence
We have a deep commitment to operational excellence and continuous 
improvement which keeps us on the leading edge of our industries 
and generating value for our customers. Our disciplined processes  
in lean manufacturing, global purchasing, and value engineering 
continue to deliver efficiencies, reduce lead-times and improve 
quality and service levels. Additionally, we are adding production and 
supply chain capacity to support our growth. Our new technologies 
and products are fully supported by investments in manufacturing 
capabilities. These initiatives are driving long-term improvements  
in our operations, expanding gross margins and reducing working 
capital requirements.

Outlook Remains Strong
As we reflect on thirty years of accomplishment, we are determined 
to continue our remarkable growth and lead the industry’s cordless 
revolution forward. Backed by our experience building the best 
brands, developing the most advanced technologies, and creating 
innovative products, we enter 2016 with our most dynamic lineup 
ever, expanding our RYOBI ONE+ system and MILWAUKEE M12, 
M18 and FUEL platforms across traditional and new ranges and 
categories. A new powerful AEG 58V PRO Lithium range of outdoor 
tools will deliver power and run-time professional users demand and 
the MILWAUKEE ONE-KEY digital platform for tools and equipment 
will revolutionize the way work gets done. Our cordless floor care and 
outdoor products are transforming both the consumer and 
commercial segments of the market, while growth in our hand tool 
and accessory businesses continues to surge. The future for  
TTI is indeed a very exciting and bright one.

I would like to thank our loyal customers and business partners  
for their ongoing support. Our dedicated, skilled and passionate 
teams are the keys to all that we have been able to accomplish 
enabling us to deliver consistently outstanding results. We are  
grateful to our Board of Directors for their ongoing strategic 
contributions. Our success has been, and will firmly remain,  
the result of a dedicated team effort.

Horst Julius Pudwill
Chairman
March 15, 2016

3

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Chief Executive Officer’s Message

 “We believe a powerful key to our success at  
TTI is a consistent, disciplined adherence to  
our strategic direction.”

4

This simply underlies our laser focus on delivering great products  
and developing great people. 2015 was an amazing year at TTI in 
which we delivered more new break-through products and hired, 
trained and mentored more management talent, in turn resulting in 
record results and preparing us for the future. As we look ahead,  
we are thrilled to share that we have a stronger team, more exciting 
products, and vast opportunities.

Make Bold Decisions
The considerable momentum we have generated is a result of  
several critical success factors and it starts with bold decisions that  
make a difference. Our decisive investments in the development  
and application of new technologies are the foundation of  
our game-changing new products. With vast and highly-focused 
product development resources, we are expanding into strategic 
product categories and launching product innovations at a faster  
rate. Gains in global market share are generated through our highly 
selective moves into under-represented geographies. Another critical 
success factor we deploy is speed. When a decision is made, we 
execute with urgency and resolve. A third critical dynamic that 
empowers TTI to be extraordinary: we continue to set higher goals 
and raise our standards, challenging our organization to improve  
to achieve new, higher levels in everything we do. We make bold 
decisions, set high standards and take action.

Create Great Products
TTI is committed to delivering the best possible products to  
our customers and doing it better than anyone in our industry.  
Innovative products are a cornerstone of our strategic drivers.  
Not only are we continuing to strategically invest in user-driven 
innovation and break-through technologies, but we have also built  
a high-speed new product development process that allows us  
to respond to changing market needs and requirements faster  
than any of our competitors. TTI has a number of brand-focused 
innovation centers in key markets dedicated to user research, design, 
engineering new technology, and delivering innovative products.  
Our rapid and robust development process is a fundamental 
competitive advantage and our ongoing investment in research, 
development, and marketing is vital to the creation of innovative 
products and technologies.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015We have a world-class group of senior managers that are leading  
our business units around the globe and we consider this leadership 
team as the best in our industry and fundamental to our record 
breaking success year after year. I extend my appreciation  
and thanks for their incredible hard work and consistent,  
outstanding performance.

At TTI, we remain inspired by our visionary Chairman, Horst Pudwill. 
Throughout the past 30 years, it has been Horst’s break-through 
thinking and innovation that has driven the Company. His bold  
vision motivates us to continue to achieve spectacular, record 
breaking results.

Joseph Galli Jr
Chief Executive Officer
March 15, 2016

Innovative Technology
As part of our innovative product strategy, TTI is on the leading  
edge of lithium cordless technology offering the broadest range and 
best performing lithium powered products. We continue to expand 
the discovery, development and delivery of technology to provide 
customers with exciting products and solutions. The next generation 
MILWAUKEE FUEL system is unsurpassed in cordless power  
tool performance and continues to stimulate the conversion from 
corded to cordless tools. The next industry-changing technology, 
MILWAUKEE ONE-KEY, is the first cloud-based digital platform for 
tools and equipment which integrates tool electronics for control and 
access to information. Technology is bringing higher performance, 
reduced size, increased durability, and better user interface features 
which are enhancing our RYOBI ONE+ and 40-volt, AEG, HOOVER, 
ORECK and VAX lithium ranges. Additionally, as a leader in the hand 
tool and power equipment accessories businesses, we are applying 
our rapid product development process from end-user research  
to new technology deployment, launching innovations in our 
MILWAUKEE, HART and EMPIRE ranges.

Cultivate Great People
We have built an outstanding team of highly talented people.  
Our organizational development initiatives have gained traction 
throughout the world with our Leadership Development Program 
(“LDP”), now in its tenth year in the US, where we have hired over 
1,500 high-potential campus recruits. Our campus recruiting is 
expanding throughout Europe, Canada, and Asia with LDPs deployed 
in more than ten countries in a variety of positions. In China we have 
successfully recruited more than 200 engineering graduates to form 
a pipeline of talent for our Asia Innovation Center and Asia Industrial 
Park. These LDPs are being trained, developed and promoted 
through the system and are taking on a vast array of assignments  
in product management, sales, marketing, purchasing, and supply 
chain management. This network of high-potential individuals forms 
the backbone of future TTI leaders.

5

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201578.8%

Power Equipment, 
Accessories and 
Hand Tools

Sales by 
Business

21.2%

Floor Care and 
Appliances

TTI delivered another year of record results in 2015 with revenue 
increasing 6.0%. Adjusted for foreign currency, sales for the period 
grew by 10.5% with North America growing 12.1%, Europe growing 
5.1% and Rest of World growing 18.9%. This positive result was 
driven by a continuous flow of innovative new products backed by 
break-through technologies, including further expansion of our 
lithium cordless platforms across our brands and product lines  
and into new categories.

Power Equipment
Sales in Power Equipment, our largest business consisting of power 
tools, hand tools, outdoor products, and accessories, rose by 11.8% 
to US$4.0 billion and grew 16.8% adjusted for foreign currency.  
We delivered growth in all geographic markets with our powerful 
portfolio of industry leading brands which include MILWAUKEE,  
AEG, RYOBI, EMPIRE, HART and HOMELITE. The business 
accounted for 78.8% of Group turnover, compared with 74.7%  
in 2014, with Earnings growing by 29.7% to US$379 million.

MILWAUKEE® M18 FUEL™ SAWZALL® Reciprocating Saw

MILWAUKEE® M18 FUEL™ 1-1/2" Magnetic Drill Press

MILWAUKEE® M18 FUEL™ with 1/2" Hammer Drill/Driver 

6

Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand ToolsReview of OperationsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Industrial
Our MILWAUKEE industrial business had another excellent year, 
delivering 17.7% sales growth in the global industrial power tool, 
accessory and hand tool markets. The continued introduction of 
innovative products, entry into new product categories, execution of 
aggressive end-user conversion initiatives, and a focus on operational 
excellence resulted in growth outpacing the market and significant 
share gains.

Power Tools 

With the FUEL cordless technology platform, MILWAUKEE  
continues to serve as the leader in the power tool corded to cordless 
revolution. We offer the industry’s most comprehensive line of 
cordless industrial power tools powered by the M12 and M18  
battery platforms. Our new M18 FUEL Magnetic Drill Press and  
M18 FUEL SUPERHAWG drill provide the power of corded tools, 
while offering the convenience, safety and productivity of cordless. 
Introduction of the M18 FORCE LOGIC High Force Cutting and 

Crimping Tools created a strong entry into the global Power Utility 
space, and our M12 and M18 LED Lighting solutions have laid the 
foundation for leadership in the global construction lighting space.

Accessories

Our power tool accessory business continued its excellent 
performance with introductions in the Hole Saw, Twist Drilling and 
Driver Bit categories. The new HOLE DOZER range of bimetal hole 
saws drove double digit growth in the hole saw category, and 
SHOCKWAVE, a leading brand in impact driving accessories, received 
a comprehensive upgrade with new driver bit technology. The new 
SHOCKWAVE bits are best in class delivering thirty times longer life 
compared to many competing ranges of impact rated bits. Our new 
line of Titanium Coated and Cobalt drill bits feature exclusive  
RED HELIX geometry for faster drilling and the Titanium Coated drill 
bits incorporate SHOCKWAVE quick change hex shanks to enable 
highly productive drilling with impact drivers.

AEG® 18-volt Cordless SDS-Plus Rotary Hammer

EMPIRE® I-Beam 72" Magnetic Aluminum Level

7

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Industrial (continued)

Hand Tools

In 2015, MILWAUKEE launched more new hand tools than in any 
prior year, driving the continued rapid expansion of the business.  
Key product launches included a new range of Tape Measures 
designed for carpenters and general contractors that feature a unique 
blade coating to extend life and a wide base for more effective 
application during typical layout uses. Our expanded range of Pliers 
with innovations like reduced weight and optimized handle sizes  
are making inroads with electrical, plumbing, HVAC, MRO and 
remodeling specialists. The Interlocking Organizer and Tool Chest 
Combo are new additions to the growing range of extremely 
successful storage products. Additionally, Empire Level established 
itself as a market leader in the US and laid the foundation for future 
leadership in other key regions with the launch of Laser Etched 
squares and the innovative TRUE BLUE I-Beam levels.

Consumer and Professional
During the year, RYOBI Power Tools expanded its market share  
in North America and delivered double digit growth in Europe and 
Rest of World. The 18V RYOBI ONE+ system of tools and batteries 
continues to grow by over one million new customers annually, 
enhanced with a number of pioneering new products for nearly any 
project. Exciting new additions include the ONE+ 18V Hybrid Work 
Light for either AC or 18V power source use, ONE+ 3 Speed Impact 
Wrench giving the end-user greater control, ONE+ Compact Radio 
with built-in Bluetooth functionality and USB charging, an industry 
first ONE+ 10-inch Orbital buffer, ONE+ Drain Auger, ONE+ Brushless 
drill with incredible power and the new ONE+ Evercharge Handheld 
Vacuum with integrated charging.

AEG power tools continued to gain momentum with professional 
users. The successful 18V Brushless line of tools deliver best-in-class 
technology, performance and run time satisfying the needs of the 
tradesman. The new jobsite blower and random orbital sander have 

MILWAUKEE® 10" TORQUE LOCK™ Curved Jaw Locking Pliers

18-volt ONE+® 3-Speed 1/4" Impact Driver

8

Power Equipment, Accessories and Hand ToolsReview of OperationsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015In addition to maintaining our dominance in cordless, we continued 
expanding sales of our gas categories with enhanced RYOBI gas 
trimmers featuring professional design engines and a new electric 
start, as well as a new gas powered pressure washer. The full line of 
RYOBI electric pressure washers, with premium nozzles for faster 
cleaning, continue to be well-received delivering best-in-class 
performance at an incredible value for the consumer.

been important contributors to the 18V range. Excitingly, AEG 18V 
was the first-to-market with a high performance 6.0Ah battery.  
AEG Power Tools will continue to deliver compelling product 
innovations to the professional user. 

Outdoor Products
Outdoor Products delivered a strong year in 2015 across all regions. 
The expansion of lithium cordless technology across our outdoor 
product ranges continued with the rollout of new products in our 
“gas-like-power” 36V/40V RYOBI lithium cordless platform and  
RYOBI ONE+ 18V line of tools. We are widening our leadership  
with the launch of the first-in-class brushless motor AEG 58V  
Lithium Ion Professional Grade cordless product line consisting of  
a string trimmer, blower, chain saw, hedge trimmer and lawn mower. 
The tools in this system include highly efficient, long-lasting brushless 
motors, and cutting edge lithium cordless performance, enabling us 
to reach a new group of users.

RYOBI® 40-volt 20" Brushless Cordless Lawn Mower

RYOBI® 40-volt 12" Cordless Chainsaw

RYOBI® 2800 PSI Pressure Washer

9

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015M18 FUEL™ tools continue to be the catalyst for converting  
global corded tool business to cordless tool solutions. Leveraging 
industry-leading technologies, M18 FUEL™ tools are built on the  
best foundation, making them the most powerful, most advanced  
and longest-lasting tools on the market.

M18 FUEL™ SUPER HAWG™
Optimized for plumbing and HVAC applications, this cordless right  
angle drill is the first tool of its kind, delivering holes up to 6" and over 
(75) 2-9/16" holes per charge for a completely cordless rough-in. 

M18 FUEL™ MAGNETIC DRILL
Powering through up to (40) 13/16" holes per charge, this tool 
outperforms corded counterparts and offers the strongest magnetic 
hold on 1/4" steel, providing a safer drilling environment.

M18 FUEL™ SUPER HAWG™ 1/2" Right Angle Drill

M18 FUEL™ SUPER HAWG™ Right Angle Drill with QUIK-LOK™

M18 FUEL™ 1-1/2"  
Magnetic Drill

M18 FUEL™ 1-1/2"  
Lineman Magnetic Drill

M18 FUEL™ SUPER HAWG™  1/2" Right Angle Drill

M18 FUEL™ 1-1/2" Lineman 
Magnetic Drill Kit

10

Industrial Power ToolsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015M18 FUEL™ DRILLS, HAMMER DRILLS & IMPACTS 
MILWAUKEE® set the benchmark for performance when M18 FUEL™ Drill/Drivers and 
Impacts were launched in 2012. The next generation of drilling and fastening products 
reset user expectations, delivering the most power on the market in a much more  
compact size.

M18 FUEL™  
1/2" Drill/Driver

M18 FUEL™  
1/2" Hammer Drill/Driver

M18 FUEL™  
1/4" Hex Impact Driver

M18 FUEL™ 3/8" Impact 
Wrench with Friction Ring

M18 FUEL™ 1/2" Impact 
Wrench Kit with Pin Detent

M18 FUEL™ 1/2" Impact 
Wrench with Friction Ring

11

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015At the core of the M18™ system expansion is our unrelenting drive  
to increase user productivity through technological innovation. 
ONE-KEY™ introduces an unprecedented level of user control by 
adding wireless integration with smart devices. FORCE LOGIC™ 
brings our powerful cordless technology to high-force applications, 
giving users more flexibility in the field and further cementing the 
MILWAUKEE® reputation as a brand that puts its users’ needs first.

By integrating industry-leading tool electronics with a custom-built cloud-based 
program, ONE-KEY™ will provide a new level of control and access to information 
that will revolutionize the way work gets done. This will fundamentally change the 
way users interact with their tools and help solve user problems and frustrations 
the industry has never before been able to address.

M18 FUEL™  
with ONE-KEY™  
1/2" Drill/Driver

M18 FUEL™  
with ONE-KEY™  
1/2" Hammer Drill/Driver

M18 FUEL™ with ONE-KEY™  
1/4" Hex Impact Driver

M18 FUEL™ with ONE-KEY™ 
3/8" Impact Wrench  
with Friction Ring

M18 FUEL™ with ONE-KEY™ 
1/2" Impact Wrench Kit  
with Pin Detent

M18 FUEL™ with ONE-KEY™ 
1/2" Impact Wrench  
with Friction Ring

12

Industrial Power ToolsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015TM

FORCE LOGIC™ is engineered to not only improve upon, but change the way high-force tools are used in 
the field. Built from the ground up to optimize ergonomics, speed and reliability, these high-force crimpers 
and cutters will reduce user fatigue and optimize workflow in even the most challenging environments.

M18™ FORCE LOGIC™ Cable Cutter 
with 750 MCM Cu Jaws

M18™ FORCE LOGIC™ Cable Cutter 
with 477 ACSR Jaws 

M18™ FORCE LOGIC™  
600 MCM Cu/350 MCM Al Crimper

M18™ FORCE LOGIC™ 6T 
Crimper with D3 Grooves 
and Snub Nose

M18™ FORCE LOGIC™ 6T 
Crimper with D3 Grooves 
and Fixed BG Die

M18™ FORCE LOGIC™ 6T 
Crimper with Kearney Grooves

M18™ FORCE LOGIC™ 6T 
Crimper with D3 Grooves 
and Fixed O Die

M18™ FORCE LOGIC™ Cable Cutter Kit with 750 Cu MCM Jaws 

M18™ FORCE LOGIC™ 6T Crimper Kit 
with D3 Grooves and Snub Nose

13

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015The M18™ & M12™ cordless systems represent the ultimate synergy 
of professional-grade power, compact size, superior ergonomics and 
extreme performance. Powered by REDLITHIUM™ battery technology 
for unmatched run-time, these tools stand alone – transcending the 
cordless category with patented technologies, innovative motors and 
advanced electronics. With more than 170 unique solutions, they are 
a true game changer for professional users.

PLANER

A two-blade design and powerful motor deliver up to 14,000 RPMs 
for unmatched stock removal and depth control. The special depth 
dial locks from 0" – 5/64" for increased accuracy.

M18™ 3-1/4" Planer

TM

TM

M18™ and M12™  
Rapid Charger

CHARGER
Charging an M18™ or M12™ battery up to 40% faster than standard chargers 
and protecting the health of the packs with REDLINK™ technology, this charger 
gives users the ability to minimize downtime and get back to work quickly.

FAN

Featuring best in class power, unmatched run-time, 3 speed 
settings, 9 stopping positions and a 120° adjustable head,  
the new fan is designed to meet the demands of any jobsite.

M18™ Jobsite Fan

TM

14

Industrial Power ToolsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015TM

TM

LED LIGHTING 
Utilizing our advanced TRUEVIEW™ LED technology, these lights are the first in the industry 
to offer full-day run-times in a portable package. Designed with toughness and versatility in 
mind, they are built to adapt, perform and survive on the professional jobsite.

M12™ LED  
Work Light

M12™ LED  
Stick Light

M12™ LED  
Spot Light

M12™ LED  
Lantern/Flood Light

M18™ LED  
Work Light

M18™ LED  
Stick Light

M18™ LED  
Lantern/Flood Light

M18™ LED  
Flood Light

M18™ LED  
HP Flood Light

M18™ LED  
Stand Light

TM

15

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015In 2015 the Power Tool Accessories business continued to push  
the limits of performance to solve jobsite problems and make  
users more productive. As seen in the launch of our RED HELIX™ 
and next-generation SHOCKWAVE™ bits, our aggressive user 
research and investment in new-to-world designs and disruptive 
manufacturing technologies has positioned our business on the 
forefront of the industry, delivering game-changing solutions for  
the most demanding tools and applications. 

Already known as the leading brand in the impact driver accessories category, MILWAUKEE® is never 
content to sit still. This new generation of bits has been upgraded with optimized SHOCK ZONE™ 
geometry, which provides up to 30X longer life and absorbs 3X more torque vs. other impact bits.

HOLE SAWS 

HOLE DOZER™ 
Bi-Metal Hole Saw

Launched in early 2015, these bi-metal hole saws drove double digit growth throughout the year 
for the category. Backed by RIP GUARD™, the industry’s first tooth break warranty, HOLE DOZER™ 
brings unmatched durability and increased productivity to users across every trade.

16

HOLE DOZER™  
Bi-Metal Hole Saws

AccessoriesTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
  
TWIST DRILL BITS
Our line of Titanium Coated and Cobalt drill bits have been redesigned based on our game-changing RED HELIX™ geometry. These bits 
utilize a CHIP BREAKER™ tip design and variable Helix flute geometry to eject material faster, reduce heat and extend bit life. Titanium 
Coated bits offer SHOCKWAVE™ quick change hex shanks for more productivity and up to 3X longer life than black oxide twist drill bits.

SHOCKWAVE™ RED HELIX™ Titanium Drill Bit

RED HELIX™ Cobalt Drill Bit

STEP DRILL BITS

Designed to deliver jam-free performance, these are the first Step Drill Bits optimized for cordless drills in high 
speed. They provide contractors with greater control and precision from beginning to end, starting with the 
all-new RAPID STRIKE™ Tip, which prevents bit walking for fast, accurate starts that generate less heat.

Step Drill Bit

SHOCKWAVE™ RED HELIX™ Titanium Drill Bits

Step Drill Bits

17

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015The Hand Tool business delivered strong growth in 2015. 
Since the introduction of the category five years ago, 
MILWAUKEE® launched more new hand tools in 2015 than 
any prior year. With continued focus on our core trades, 
MILWAUKEE® built new innovative Hand Tool solutions that 
deliver increased durability and productivity to our users.

TAPE MEASURES

Offering 10X longer life than the competition, Tape Measures were a focused category 
again in 2015. Designed with a reinforced frame and nylon blade protection, these 
products represent the most durable tape measures in the market today.

25ft Magnetic Tape Measure  
with Finger Stop

25ft Tape Measure  
with Finger Stop

25ft Tape Measure

18

Hand ToolsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015PLIERS

These products were redesigned from the ground up with optimized 
handle sizes and less overall weight, without sacrificing innovative 
features such as reaming edges for removing metal burrs on conduit.

12" Straight Jaw Pliers

9" High-Leverage Lineman’s Pliers with Crimper

STORAGE 
The MILWAUKEE® line of storage products has been extremely successful, 
with the launch of a 20" Jobsite Organizer and the 46" Steel Storage Chest. 
These products will lead to more opportunity for future expansion.

46" 8-Drawer Steel Storage Chest & Cabinet

19

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015STILETTO® sets the standard with premium Titanium hand 
tools and hammers that are 45% lighter than steel, while 
providing the same striking force and strength. In addition, 
Titanium tools produce 10X less recoil shock, which means 
less downtime due to injury, more productivity and most 
importantly less pain while getting the job done.

HART® Family of products focus on delivering innovative Signature 
Features that provide contractors with top quality materials to 
enhance productivity. Products ranges in Hammers, Sledges, Tiling 
Tools, Pry Bars, Clamps, Mattocks and Utility Tools insure you have 
the right products to complete every job.

HART® 15" Pry Bar

HART® 10" Nail Puller

HART® 12" Double Ended Nail Puller

HART® Double Ended Nail Set

20

Hand ToolsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015EMPIRE® had an impressive 2015, delivering double-digit market 
share growth. As the leader in the layout market, EMPIRE® has 
earned the trust of the construction trades by delivering a broad 
range of innovative solutions focused on layout applications. 
Replacing the revolutionary e50 I-Beam series, the upgraded  
e55 I-Beam levels provide the user with stronger magnets  
and a tougher, more durable frame. The new innovative line of  
Laser Etched Squares leverage ground breaking manufacturing 
technology creating products with permanent marking that are  
2X more accurate. EMPIRE®’s innovative vial technology blows away 
the competition in readability, accuracy and durability. Each vial 
undergoes a rigorous 10-point quality inspection to ensure it delivers 
the precision and toughness required for true professional results.

LASER ETCHED™

Vial Technology

21

Layout and Measuring ToolsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015The AEG® Power Tools brand has been delivering  
high-performance tools since 1898. Over a 100 years later 
and nothing has changed, AEG® Power Tools continue  
to push boundaries and innovate with a current focus on  
the cordless sector, harnessing leading lithium ion power.

At the heart of the Pro18v range lies 3 core 
technologies. These core technologies are 
built to offer tradesmen relentless power, 
instinctive technology and unstoppable 
runtime which set AEG® Pro18-volt tools  
apart from its competition.

18-volt Ultra Compact Impact Driver

18-volt SDS-Plus Rotary 
Hammer Drill

18-volt Pendulum Action 
Reciprocating Saw

18-volt Heavy Duty Angle Grinder 

18-volt Orbital Sander

Cordless Family

22

18-volt Brushless Hammer Drill

Professional ToolsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Four new BRUSHLESS tools added to the AEG® suite 
of professional grade options.  Teamed with class 
leading 6.0Ah battery capacity, end users had great 
choice of upgrade tools to add to their collection.

AEG® 6.0Ah battery
Maintaining a compact size equal to its 
predecessor 5.0Ah, the new 6.0Ah 
battery delivers 50% longer runtime than 
4Ah, is 100% backward compatible with 
all AEG® 18-volt tools.

18-volt Brushless 16Ga C Brad Nailer

18-volt Brushless
 7-1/4" Circular Saw

18-volt Brushless 5" Grinder

18-volt Heavy Duty 
Brushless Hammer Drill

18-volt Compact Brushless 
Hammer Drill

18-volt Brushless 
Impact Driver

18-volt Brushless Hammer Drill

18-volt Brushless 7-1/4” Circular Saw

18-volt Brushless Family

23

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015The RYOBI® brand offers the most extensive award winning and 
innovative line of consumer focused products and accessories for 
worldwide use. The RYOBI® power tool range is anchored by the 
18-volt ONE+® System of over 70 products, ranging from drills, 
drivers, saws and trimmers to sanders.

LITHIUM & LITHIUM+™

RYOBI® 18-volt ONE+® LITHIUM+™ 
High Capacity Battery Next 
generation lithium ion technology 
provides the end user with  
the best value and performance 
proposition in the marketplace.

18-volt ONE+® 3-Speed 
Impact Driver

18-volt ONE+® 
Drain Auger

18-volt ONE+® SDS-PLUS® 
Rotary Hammer

18-volt ONE+® 6-Port 
Super Charger

ONE+® 18-volt Reciprocating Saw

24

Consumer and Professional ToolsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015RYOBI® 18-volt ONE+® AIRSTRIKE™ Brad Nailer, Finish Nailer, Angled Finish Nailer and Narrow Crown Stapler 
features AIRSTRIKE™ Technology, which eliminates the need for noisy compressors, bulky hoses or expensive 
gas cartridges. This means faster setup and easier maneuvering on the job site or at home.

RYOBI® 18-volt ONE+® DUAL POWER family, featuring the 20 Watt LED Work LIght, Fan & Stereo with Bluetooth®

18-volt ONE+® Reciprocating Saw

18-volt ONE+® EVERCHARGE™  
Hand Vacuum

ONE+® 18-volt AIRSTRIKE™ 
16-Gauge Straight Finish Nailer

ONE+® 18-volt EVERCHARGE™ Hand Vacuum

25

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015RYOBI® Outdoor Products deliver the latest technology and features 
with the newest member of the 18-Volt ONE+® System – 18-volt 
LITHIUM+™ Outdoor Products – compatible with all RYOBI® ONE+® 
tools produced since 1996. LITHIUM+™ takes 18-volt lawn care to  
a new level with more power, runtime and features than previous 
models. Meanwhile, the ever-growing 40-volt system is currently 
made up of 15 tools, from blowers, trimmers, chainsaws to mowers. 

LITHIUM & LITHIUM+™

RYOBI® 18-volt ONE+® LITHIUM+™ High Capacity Battery Next generation lithium ion technology 
provides the end user with the best value and performance proposition in the marketplace.

battery delivers extra-long run time.

18V ONE+® 
LITHIUM+™ 16" 
Cordless Lawn 
Mower

18-volt ONE+® 
LITHIUM+™ 13" 
Cordless String 
Trimmer/Edger

18V ONE+® LITHIUM+™ Cordless Jet Fan Blower

OR

18-volt ONE+® HYBRID Dual 
Power Hard Surface Blower

18-volt ONE+® 
HYBRID 16" Dual 
Power Lawn Mower

18-volt ONE+® 
HYBRID 12" 
Dual Power 
String  
Trimmer/ 
Edger

ONE+® 18-volt LITHIUM+™ Jet Fan Blower

26

Outdoor ProductsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015RYOBI® 40-volt lithium ion batteries provide fade free power 
and longer run time to over fifteen 40-volt tools.

40-volt Lithium Brushless 20" 
Cordless Lawn Mower

40-volt Lithium Brushless 20" 
Cordless Snow Blower

40-volt X Lithium 15" Cordless 
String Trimmer

40-volt Lithium Cordless Jet 
Fan Blower

40-volt Lithium 24" Cordless 
Hedge Trimmer

40-volt Lithium Brushless 
14" Cordless Chainsaw

40-volt X EXPAND-IT String Trimmer

27

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015RYOBI® Outdoor Tools are engineered to deliver superior 
performance for every lawn and garden enthusiast. RYOBI® 
combines power, innovative features, and premium engines  
into a full line of gas and electric pressure washers, gas string 
trimmers, hedge trimmers, blowers, chainsaws, and generators.  
At an affordable price, high quality lawn equipment is within  
reach of every homeowner.

Gas Chainsaws

RYOBI® gas chainsaws feature powerful 
engines and an anti-vibe handle to tackle 
clearing jobs of all sizes.

String Trimmers

Inverter Generator

Pressure Washers

RYOBI® 2 Cycle Full 
Crank String Trimmers 
provide longer engine 
life, comfortable 
operation and are 
attachment capable. 

Designed for quiet operation and 
clean power, the RYOBI® Inverter 
Generator is capable of powering 
your most sensitive electronics. 
With a transport-friendly housing 
and a lightweight design, the 
Inverter Generator provides 
power anywhere you need it. 

RYOBI® Pressure Washers 
are a reliable solution to 
virtually any pressure 
cleaning task around the 
home. Both gas and 
electric models offer 
premium features, best 
in class innovation, and 
quality cleaning at an 
affordable price. 

2 Cycle Full Crank Trimmer

Pressure Washers

28

Outdoor ProductsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015HOMELITE® Consumer Products manufactures a full line of Outdoor 
Power Equipment including string trimmers, blowers, chainsaws, 
hedge trimmers, pressure washers, generators and outdoor 
accessories for the consumer, do-it-yourself and garden enthusiast. 
HOMELITE® is dedicated to offering products that start easily and 
run reliably. No matter the task on your to-do list, HOMELITE® 
delivers dependable gas and electric outdoor products at an 
exceptional value.

2700 PSI Gas Pressure Washer

2 Cycle Gas Blower

12 AMP Electric Chain Saw

29

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201521.2%

Floor Care and 
Appliances

Sales by 
Business

78.8%

Power Equipment, 
Accessories and 
Hand Tools

Floor Care and Appliances 
The Floor Care and Appliances business reported sales of  
US$1.0 billion. Accounting for 21.2% of the Group’s revenue. On  
a global basis, Hoover and Oreck’s business were up after adjusted 
for foreign currency. The overall division was down by 11.2%, 
primarily due to a mandated European Union (EU) Energy Labeling 
Directive and the strategic exit of certain low margin products and 
OEM businesses. We view these as episodic and the business  
will resume its normal course in the years to come. The business  
is primarily comprised of the HOOVER, ORECK, VAX and  
DIRT DEVIL brands. 

In North America, our HOOVER cordless lithium range of stick and 
upright vacuums are gaining popularity. Standout products are the 
HOOVER LINX cordless stick that received industry recognition as the 
best cordless vacuum in a review by a respected consumer product 
testing group and the innovative HOOVER AIRLIFT deluxe cordless 
upright with a one-hand lift off canister. Dirt Devil launched a new 
range of Power series vacuums and hand held stick vacuums for the 

HOOVER® Cordless FLOORMATE®

HOOVER® Air™ Cordless Lift 

30

Floor Care and AppliancesReview of OperationsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015In Europe, 2015 proved to be challenging as the industry absorbed 
key changes in eco-legislation and faced foreign currency headwinds, 
but benefited from substantial growth in the cordless category. VAX is 
the dominant brand in the UK upright and carpet washing segments 
with DIRT DEVIL brand a leader in the German robotic category. Most 
exciting was the continued success of our expanding cordless range 
with AIR Cordless Lift leading the way as the first full-sized cordless 
lift-off in the UK. With a large pipeline of products in development 
and marketing resources being deployed, we are focused on driving 
the industry and consumer shift to cordless cleaning.

US and Canadian market, offering innovative design and  
outstanding value for the consumer. Our foundation of cordless 
innovation and leadership consumer design will fuel our growth  
going forward. 

Commercial cleaning is an exciting category where we, prior to  
the Oreck acquisition, had limited penetration. We are aggressively 
expanding into this segment, which we expect to be one of the key 
growth drivers in floor care in the years to come. In 2015, growth in 
our commercial cleaning business under the HOOVER and ORECK 
brands was driven by the launch of new cordless platforms. Hoover 
introduced an industry leading range of 40V high performance 
cordless products for large area cleaning building upon HUSHTONE 
noise reduction technology, while Oreck launched a new 20V 
platform for small area commercial cleaning, for both wet and  
dry cleaning requirements. We have a product offering filled with 
innovation and a comprehensive intellectual property portfolio for 
future product development that will drive market change in the 
commercial cleaning industry.

ORECK® MAGNESIUM® RS

DIRT DEVIL® LIFT & GO®

VAX® Air™ Cordless

31

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015As America’s most recognized vacuum brand, HOOVER® is 
committed to helping busy families find easier ways to keep  
their home clean. That’s why we continue to innovate and  
create new products like our new family of cordless vacuums  
– changing the way America cleans.

Cordless Upright Cordless 2-in-1

Cordless Lift

Cordless 
FLOORMATE®

AIRLIFT™ Deluxe

Power Path Pro 
Carpet Washer

NO CORD. NO COMPROMISE. LITHIUMLIFE™ Battery Technology gives you powerful, cordless 
freedom to clean where corded cleaners can’t. Now it’s easy to unplug from traditional cleaning.

Cordless Family

32

AIRLIFT™ Deluxe

Floor Care and AppliancesTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015We empower the cleaning professional with the tools to efficiently 
keep the commercial environments they maintain – clean, safe,  
and productive for the patrons and employees that depend  
on them. HOOVER® commercial floor cleaning products are idealy 
suited for the property management and hospitality markets.

HUSHTONE™ 6Q  
Cordless Backpack

HUSHTONE™  
Canister

HUSHTONE™ 6Q  
Backpack

HUSHTONE™ 13

HUSHTONE™ 15

M-PWR™40V Battery

Dual-Bay Charger

Cordless Productivity.
Our new HUSHTONE™ Cordless Backpack is the first of its kind in the commercial market by 
offering continuous run-time delivering a 40% productivity advantage over corded equivalents. 
Continuous run-time is enabled by our M-PWR™40-volt system that provides the efficiency of  
a swap-on-the-go battery with 45 minutes of fade-free performance and a charge time of only 
90 minutes. A dual-bay charger ensures a full battery is always ready to go. 

HUSHTONE™ 6Q Cordless Backpack

HUSHTONE™ 13

33

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015ORECK® delivers on a whole new level of clean and healthy homes. 
Our powerful yet lightweight vacuums, Microfiber cleaning tools  
and HEPA Air Purification systems provide whole home cleaning 
solutions. Our focus on service has created loyal consumers who 
come back to ORECK® for all of their cleaning needs.

Elevate Control™

Elevate Command™

Elevate Conquer™

MAGNESIUM® RS

AirInstinct® 200

AIR REFRESH™

Welcome to an elevated level of clean. Lightweight materials and 
premium design combine to deliver maximum performance and  
a SaniSeal® system automatically locks in allergens, dirt and debris.

Elevate Conquer™

34

AIR REFRESH™

Floor Care and AppliancesTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015ORECK® is for the professional who cleans and is looking for 
Lightweight, Easy to Deploy, Quick Cleaning Tools. ORECK® 
commercial products are ideal for use in food service and  
hospitality markets.

M-PWR™ 20V Lithium 
Battery and Charger

Cordless Versatility.

SLINGVAC™

TASKVAC™

HYDROVAC™

Go from high-traffic to small areas with flexible battery convenience. This M-PWR-20-volt lithium line is the first product launch under the 
ORECK® Commercial Brand and leverages its core traits of commercial performance in a lightweight design. Three different tools provide the 
users with the agility and performance to quickly conquer specific cleaning jobs without disrupting patrons in busy public spaces. 

ORECK® Cordless

35

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 20152015 proved to be an exciting year for VAX® where product 
development was focussed on bringing real innovation to the  
hands of consumers. VAX® became one of the leading Cordless 
vacuum brands in the UK. TTI’s expertise in battery technology 
enabled expansion and innovation in the range including  
the UK’s first Cordless lift-out, delivering superior customer 
experience and driving success for VAX® in the cordless category.

Dynamo Cordless &  
Dynamo Power Cordless

Air™ Cordless Switch, Air™ Cordless Lift & Air™ Cordless

Lithium-ion battery

Dynamo Power Cordless

Air™ Cordless Lift

36

Floor Care and AppliancesTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015DIRT DEVIL® is proud to have been the first vacuum purchase for 
generations and makes products for all household needs. From  
hand vacs to full size vacuums, DIRT DEVIL® is perfect to pick up 
small messes or for every day cleaning. Powerful yet affordable,  
DIRT DEVIL® makes cleaning easy with a bit of fun built in.

Quick Flip®

FLIPOUT™

Power MAX™

Power Duo™

Power FLEX™ Pet

Power MAX™ Pet

360 Reach®

The Power Series of upright vacuums are designed to tackle life’s messes. All 
have a patent pending horizontal cyclonic filtration system which give you greater 
access for cleaning and larger dirt cup capacity. 

Power Series

FLIPOUT™ Lithium Powered Cordless Hand Vac

37

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Board of Directors

Front row (from left to right)

Vincent Ting Kau Cheung
Independent Non-executive Director

Second row (from left to right )

Stephan Horst Pudwill
Group Executive Director  
President of Strategic Planning

Horst Julius Pudwill MSc
Group Executive Director  
Chairman

Joseph Galli Jr BSBA, MBA
Group Executive Director  
Chief Executive Officer

Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Independent Non-executive Director

Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS, JP
Non-executive Director

Manfred Kuhlmann
Independent Non-executive Director

Peter David Sullivan BS
Independent Non-executive Director

Camille Jojo 
Non-executive Director

Patrick Kin Wah Chan FCCA, FCPA
Group Executive Director  
Operations Director

Frank Chi Chung Chan 
ACA, FCCA, FCPA, CPA (Practising)
Group Executive Director  
Group Chief Financial Officer

38

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Group Executive Directors

Horst Julius Pudwill MSc
Chairman

Patrick Kin Wah Chan FCCA, FCPA
Operations Director

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill, aged 71, is Chairman of TTI, a position  
he has held since he jointly founded the Group in 1985. Until 2008, 
he also served as Chief Executive Officer. As Chairman, Mr Pudwill 
focuses on the strategic planning and development of the Group and 
continues to have oversight of the operations, with the Chief Executive 
Officer reporting directly to him. Mr Pudwill has extensive experience 
in international trade, business and commerce. Mr Pudwill is also  
a director of Sunning Inc. which has an interest in the equity of  
the Company.

Mr Patrick Kin Wah Chan, aged 56, joined the Group in 1988 and 
was appointed as Executive Director in 1990. He is now in charge  
of the manufacturing operations of the Group.

Mr Chan is currently the Vice-Chairman of the Dongguan City 
Association of Enterprises with Foreign Investment, the Chairman of 
Houjie Association of Enterprises with Foreign Investment. He is also 
the Vice-Director of Electric Tool Sub-Association of China Electrical 
Equipment Industrial Association.

Mr Pudwill holds a Master of Science Degree in Engineering and  
a General Commercial Degree.

Mr Pudwill is the father of Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill, Group Executive 
Director and President of Strategic Planning.

Joseph Galli Jr BSBA, MBA
Chief Executive Officer

Mr Joseph Galli Jr, aged 57, joined the Group in 2006 as the  
Chief Executive Officer of Techtronic Appliances and was appointed 
as Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director of TTI effective 
February 1, 2008. He is responsible for integrating acquisitions in 
North America and Europe, and enhancing the global sales potential 
of the Group’s strong brand portfolio. He is also responsible for 
leading the management team in the Group’s daily operation.

Mr Galli joined Black & Decker in 1980 where he worked for over  
19 years and held various high level management positions, rising to 
the position of President of Worldwide Power Tools and Accessories. 
During his tenure at Black & Decker, he was responsible for highly 
successful launch of the “DeWalt®” Brand heavy duty power tools  
in 1992. After leaving Black & Decker, Mr Galli joined Amazon.com 
where he was President and Chief Operating Officer from 1999  
to 2000. From 2001 to 2005, he was a Director and Chief Executive 
Officer of Newell Rubbermaid Inc.

Mr Galli graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1980  
with a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration. In 1987,  
he obtained an MBA from Loyola College in Baltimore, Maryland.

Mr Chan is a fellow member of The Association of Chartered  
Certified Accountants and the Hong Kong Institute of Certified  
Public Accountants.

Frank Chi Chung Chan ACA, FCCA, FCPA, CPA (Practising)
Group Chief Financial Officer

Mr Frank Chi Chung Chan, aged 62, joined the Group in 1991 and 
was appointed as Executive Director in 1992. He is now responsible 
for corporate affairs and financial management of the Group.

Mr Chan is a fellow member of The Association of Chartered  
Certified Accountants and the Hong Kong Institute of Certified  
Public Accountants, a member of The Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England & Wales, an associate of the Taxation 
Institute of Hong Kong and qualified to practise as a Certified  
Public Accountant in Hong Kong.

Mr Chan is currently an Independent Non-executive Director of  
Gold Peak Industries (Holdings) Limited which is listed on the stock 
exchange of Hong Kong.

Stephan Horst Pudwill
President of Strategic Planning

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill, aged 39, joined the Group in 2004  
and was appointed as Executive Director in 2006. He is mainly 
responsible for managing, improving and monitoring internal 
operations and identifying synergistic business opportunities  
within the Group.

Prior to joining the Group, Mr Pudwill held managerial positions at 
Daimler Chrysler AG that included product marketing and strategic 
planning for the Mercedes-Benz car group.

Mr Pudwill holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree from the University  
of British Columbia and is Mr Horst Julius Pudwill’s son.

39

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Camille Jojo
Mr Camille Jojo, aged 59, was appointed as a Non-executive Director 
with effect from October 30, 2015. Mr Jojo has practiced as a lawyer 
in Hong Kong for a continuous period in excess of 30 years as  
a specialist in (i) civil litigation in the higher courts of Hong Kong,  
(ii) arbitration and (iii) regulatory. He graduated with a LL.B.  
Hons. degree from the University of Cardiff in 1977 and obtained  
his Professional Qualifying Examination Certificate from Guildford 
College of Law in 1978. He was qualified and was admitted as  
a solicitor of the Supreme Court of England and Wales in 1980,  
as a solicitor of the Supreme Court of Hong Kong in 1982 and as  
a solicitor and barrister of the Supreme Court of Victoria, Australia  
in 1984. Mr Jojo was admitted as a fellow of the Chartered Institute  
of Arbitrators in November 1997. He has been a committee member 
of the Law Society Insolvency Law Committee since 1996 and, 
recently, has been granted Higher Rights of Audience as a solicitor 
advocate in respect of civil proceedings in the Hong Kong Courts.  
He is a Partner of Norton Rose Fulbright Hong Kong and head of  
its dispute resolution practice in Hong Kong.

Non-executive Directors

Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS, JP
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP, aged 63, is a Co-founder of TTI.  
Prof Chung, previously the Group Managing Director since 1985,  
was appointed as the Group Vice Chairman and Executive Director  
of the Company on April 18, 2007. He has been re-designated to 
Non-executive Director of the Company with effect from July 1, 2011.

Prof Chung holds a Doctor of Engineering Degree from the University 
of Warwick, United Kingdom and Doctor of Business Administration 
Degree from City University of Macau. He was appointed as  
an Industrial Professor by the University of Warwick, United Kingdom 
in December 2010. He was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Business 
Administration by the Lingnan University in 2015, an Honorary Doctor 
of Business Administration by the Hong Kong Polytechnic University 
in 2007 and an Honorary Doctorate Degree by the University of 
Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia in 2006. He was awarded the 
Bronze Bauhinia Star (BBS) Medal by the Hong Kong SAR Government 
on July 1, 2011. He was also appointed as Justice of Peace by  
the Hong Kong SAR Government on July 1, 2005 and won the  
Hong Kong Young Industrialists Award in 1997. In November 2014, 
he was further awarded the Industrialist of the Year.

Prof Chung is highly dedicated to the advancement of industry and 
was the Chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries until 
July 5, 2013. In addition, Prof Chung holds positions on a number  
of Hong Kong SAR Government advisory committees and is also  
an active member of many social committees and associations.

Prof Chung is also an Independent Non-executive Director of TK 
Group (Holdings) Limited and Fujikon Industrial Holdings Limited. 
Prof Chung retired as Independent Non-executive Director of  
Kin Yat Holdings Limited and KFM Kingdom Holdings Limited 
effective August 25, 2014 and August 27, 2015 respectively.

40

Board of DirectorsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Independent Non-executive Directors

Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley, aged 71, was appointed as  
an Independent Non-executive Director in May 2001. He was 
formerly an Executive Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation Ltd. Mr Langley maintains close ties with the 
business community in Hong Kong. He is currently a Non-executive 
Director of Lei Shing Hong Limited which has been delisted from  
the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited on March 17, 2008.  
Mr Langley resigned as an Independent Non-executive Director of 
Winsor Properties Holdings Limited (now renamed as Vanke Property 
(Overseas) Limited) with effective from September 1, 2012 and retired 
as an Independent Non-executive Director of Dickson Concepts 
(International) Limited with effective from July 24, 2014, both of 
which companies are listed on the stock exchange of Hong Kong.

Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann, aged 71, was appointed as an Independent 
Non-executive Director in 2004. He was General Manager of 
Dresdner Bank AG Hong Kong Branch between 1994 and 1998  
and General Manager of Dresdner Bank AG Dubai before he  
retired in August 2004. Mr Kuhlmann is a graduate of the Banking 
Academy, Hamburg and has extensive experience in the finance and 
banking industry. Since 2005 he served as “Hamburg Ambassador” 
in the UAE to support the economic ties between Hamburg, Germany 
and the UAE. He retired from that position in May 2013 as he had 
moved his residence to Cyprus. Since July 2009 Mr Kuhlmann was  
a Non-executive Director and member of the Board of Avicenna 
Pharma Development FZLLC in Dubai, he retired from that position 
on December 31, 2010.

Peter David Sullivan BS
Mr Peter David Sullivan, aged 67, was appointed as Independent 
Non-executive Director effective February 1, 2008. He was  
an Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of Standard 
Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited. Mr Sullivan held governance 
responsibility for franchises of the Standard Chartered Group in 
Japan, Australia, the Philippines and Bohai Bank in Tianjin, China. 
He also held a number of other major appointments, including as  
the Chairman of the Hong Kong Association of Banks and the British 
Chamber of Commerce.

Mr Sullivan has been appointed as a Non-executive Director to  
the boards of Standard Bank Group and The Standard Bank of  
South Africa Limited with effect from January 15, 2013. He is the 
Chairman and Non-executive Director of Healthcare Locums plc,  
and a Non-executive Director of Winton Capital plc, AXA ASIA and 
AXA China Region Insurance Company Limited. Mr Sullivan was  
an Independent Non-executive Director of Standard Bank plc  
London and SmarTone Telecommunications Holdings Limited,  
a Non-executive Director of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited  
that is listed on the Australian and New Zealand stock exchanges.

Mr Sullivan holds a Bachelor of Science (Physical Education) Degree 
from the University of New South Wales (Wollongong).

Vincent Ting Kau Cheung
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung, aged 74, was appointed as a Director 
in 1991 and was re-designated as an Independent Non-executive 
Director on March 30, 2012.

Mr Cheung is a graduate in law from University College London and 
has been a practising solicitor since 1970. He is qualified to practice 
law in Hong Kong and England and Wales and he is now a Consultant 
of Vincent T.K. Cheung, Yap & Co. He is also a Fellow of University 
College London and a Commandeur de l’Ordre du Mérite Agricole  
of France.

41

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Financial Review
Financial Results

Result Analysis
The Group’s revenue for the year amounted to US$5.0 billion, an 
increase of 6.0% as compared to US$4.8 billion in 2014. Profit 
attributable to Owners of the Company amounted to US$354 million 
as compared to US$300 million in 2014, an increase of 18.0%. 
Basic earnings per share for the year improved to US19.37 cents as 
compared to US16.41 cents in 2014.

EBITDA amounted to US$570 million, an increase of 14.1% as 
compared to US$500 million in 2014.

EBIT amounted to US$400 million, an increase of 14.0% as 
compared to US$351 million in 2014.

Gross Margin

Gross margin improved to 35.7% as compared to 35.2% last year. 
The margin improvement was the result of new product introduction, 
category expansion, improvements in operational efficiency and 
supply chain productivity.

Liquidity and Financial Resources

Shareholders’ Funds
Total shareholders’ funds amounted to US$2.2 billion as compared 
to US$2.0 billion in 2014. Book value per share was at US$1.18 as 
compared to US$1.07 last year, an increase of 10.3%.

Financial Position

The Group continued to maintain a strong financial position. As 
at December 31, 2015, the Group’s cash and cash equivalents 
amounted to US$775 million (2014: US$690 million), of which 
40.6%, 26.6%, 14.0% and 18.8% were denominated in US$, RMB, 
HK$ and other currencies respectively.

The Group’s net gearing, expressed as a percentage of total net 
borrowing (excluding bank advance from factored trade receivables 
which are without recourse in nature) to equity attributable to 
Owners of the Company, was at 13.4% as compared to 10.0% last 
year. Excluding the one time cash charge of US$70 million for the 
purchase of the Group’s head office premise in Hong Kong, the net 
gearing was at 9.9%. The group remains confident that gearing will 
remain low going forward.

Operating Expenses

Bank Borrowings

Long term borrowings accounted for 42.9% of total debts (2014: 
36.3%).

The Group’s major borrowings continued to be in US Dollars and 
in HK Dollars. Borrowings are predominantly LIBOR or Hong Kong 
best lending rates based. There is a natural hedge mechanism in 
place as the Group’s major revenues are in US Dollars and currency 
exposure therefore is low. Currency, interest rate exposures, and cash 
management functions are all being closely monitored and managed 
by the Group’s treasury team.

Total operating expenses for the year amounted to US$1,403 million 
as compared to US$1,326 million in 2014, representing 27.9% of 
turnover (2014: 27.9%). The increase was mainly due to the strategic 
spent on advertising and promotion on new products, and the one 
time costs associated with the exiting of non-strategic Floor Care 
operations.

Investments in product design and development amounted to 
US$128 million, representing 2.5% of turnover (2014: 2.5%) 
reflecting our continuous strive for innovation. We will continue to 
invest to create breakthrough technology and deliver broad base end-
user products and categories as these are most critical not only to 
maintain sales growth momentum but also margin expansions.

Net interest expenses for the year amounted to US$13 million as 
compared to US$25 million in 2014, a reduction of US$12 million or 
48.8%. Interest coverage, expressed as a multiple of EBITDA to total 
interest was 24.8 times (2014: 13.0 times).

The effective tax rate, being tax charged for the year to before tax 
profits was at 8.5% (2014: 7.9%). The Group will continue to leverage 
its global operations to sustain the overall tax efficiencies.

42

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Management’s Discussion and AnalysisWorking Capital

Total inventory was at US$1,190 million as compared to US$1,056 
million in 2014. Days inventory increased by 5 days from 81 days 
to 86 days. The increase was mainly due to the strategic decision 
to carry a higher level of inventory to support our service level, 
considering our high growth momentum. The Group will continue to 
focus in managing the inventory level and improve inventory turns.

Trade receivable turnover days were at 60 days as compared to 59 
days last year. Excluding the gross up of the receivables factored 
which is without recourse in nature, receivable turnover days were at 
55 days as compared to 54 days last year. The Group is comfortable 
with the quality of the receivables and will continue to exercise due 
care in managing the credit exposure.

Trade payable days were 84 days as compared to 87 days in 2014.

Working capital as a percentage of sales was at 17.0% as compared 
to 14.6% in 2014.

Capital Expenditure

Total capital expenditures for the year amounted to US$232 million 
(2014: US$154 million), including US$70 million of office premises 
located in Hong Kong.

Capital Commitments and Contingent Liabilities

As at December 31, 2015, total capital commitments amounted to 
US$23 million (2014: US$12 million) and there were no material 
contingent liabilities or off balance sheet obligations.

Charge
None of the Group’s assets are charged or subject to encumbrance.

Major Customers and Suppliers

For the year ended December 31, 2015

(i) 

(ii) 

the Group’s largest customer and five largest customers 
accounted for approximately 42.7% and 52.3% respectively of 
the Group’s total revenue; and

the Group’s largest supplier and five largest suppliers 
accounted for approximately 4.6% and 16.6% respectively of 
the Group’s total purchases (not including purchases of items 
which are of a capital nature).

As far as the Directors are aware, none of the Directors, their 
associates or any shareholders who owned more than 5% of TTI’s 
share capital had any interest in the five largest customers or 
suppliers of the Group.

Human Resources
The Group employed a total of 20,517 employees as at December 31, 
2015 (2014: 20,081) in Hong Kong and overseas. Total staff cost for 
the year under review amounted to US$727 million (2014: US$678 
million).

The Group regards human capital as vital for the Group’s continuous 
growth and profitability and remains committed to improving the 
quality, competence and skills of all employees. It provides job-
related training and leadership development programs throughout the 
organisation. The Group continues to offer competitive remuneration 
packages, discretionary share options and bonuses to eligible staff, 
based on the performance of the Group and the individual employee.

Corporate Strategy and Business Model
The Group is a world-class leader in design, manufacturing and 
marketing of power tools, outdoor power equipment and floor 
care for consumers, professional and industrial users in the home 
improvement, infrastructure and construction industries. We are 
committed to implementing our long term strategic plan that focuses 
on “Powerful brands, Innovative Products, Operational Excellence 
and Exceptional People”.

We continue to strengthen our portfolio of powerful brands with a 
focused marketing approach. Brands extension into new product 
categories and under-represented markets enable us to generate 
outstanding growth. Geographic expansion will be a highlight of TTI’s 
future, our long term strategy is to aggressively build our business 
outside the U.S. and we have spent relentless efforts to expand or 
establish presence in high potential markets around the world.

Introducing innovative new products is the centerpiece of our long 
term strategy. We continue to invest in building a high-speed product 
development process, enabling us to respond faster to customer 
requests and emerging opportunities, giving us a vigorous competitive 
advantage.

Our strategy in operational excellence will continue, we will drive 
further gains in efficiency across our manufacturing operations, 
supporting further margin improvement.

We continue to deploy our Leadership Development Program (LDP) 
to develop our pool of talent for the future. The LDP initiative is 
successfully feeding talent into key positions throughout the company.

43

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Management’s Discussion and AnalysisClosure of Register of Members
The register of members of the Company will be closed for the 
following periods:

To ascertain members’ eligibility to attend and vote at the 2016 
Annual General Meeting, the register of members of the Company will 
be closed from May 19, 2016 to May 20, 2016, both days inclusive, 
during which period no transfers of shares will be effected. In order 
to qualify to attend and vote at the 2016 Annual General Meeting, 
all transfers accompanied by the relevant share certificates must 
be lodged with the Company’s share registrars, Tricor Secretaries 
Limited, at Level 22, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queen’s Road East, Hong 
Kong for registration not later than 4:00 p.m. on May 18, 2016.

To ascertain members’ entitlement to the final dividend, the register 
of members of the Company will be closed on May 27, 2016 when 
no transfers of shares will be effected. In order to qualify for the final 
dividend, all transfers accompanied by the relevant share certificates 
must be lodged with the Company’s share registrars, Tricor 
Secretaries Limited, at Level 22, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queen’s Road 
East, Hong Kong for registration not later than 4:00 p.m. on May 26, 
2016.

Purchase, Sale or Redemption of Securities
Other than for satisfying the awarded shares granted under the 
Company’s share award scheme (details of which will be set out in 
this Annual Report), neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries 
purchased, redeemed or sold any of the Company’s listed securities 
during the year.

Review of Financial Information
The Audit Committee has reviewed with senior management of 
the Group and Messrs Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu the accounting 
principles and practices adopted by the Group and has discussed 
internal controls and financial reporting matters, including the review 
of Group’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended 
December 31, 2015. The Board acknowledges its responsibility for 
the preparation of the accounts of the Group.

Dividend
The Directors have recommended a final dividend of HK23.25 cents 
(approximately US2.99 cents) per share with a total of approximately 
US$54,871,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015 (2014: 
HK19.00 cents (approximately US2.45 cents)) payable to the 
Company’s shareholders whose names appear on the register of 
members of the Company on May 27, 2016. Subject to the approval 
of the shareholders at the forthcoming annual general meeting of 
the Company, the proposed final dividend is expected to be paid 
on or about June 24, 2016. This payment, together with the interim 
dividend of HK16.00 cents (approximately US2.06 cents) per 
share (2014: HK12.50 cents (approximately US1.61 cents)) paid 
on September 25, 2015, makes a total payment of HK39.25 cents 
(approximately US5.05 cents) per share for 2015 (2014: HK31.50 
cents (approximately US4.05 cents)).

44

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Management’s Discussion and AnalysisThe Company is committed to maintaining a high standard of 
corporate governance to enhance shareholders’ interests and 
promote sustainable development. The Company emphasises a 
quality board of directors (the “Board”) for leadership and effective 
internal controls, transparency and accountability to all shareholders. 
The Board reviews the codes and practices of corporate governance 
and the disclosure of this Corporate Governance Report, from time to 
time, to improve the Company’s corporate governance practices with 
regards to the latest developments on all applicable laws, rules and 
regulations.

Compliance with the Corporate Governance 
Code
The Company has complied with all the code provisions of the 
Corporate Governance Code set out in Appendix 14 of the Rules 
Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong 
Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”) (the “Corporate Governance 
Code”) throughout the year ended December 31, 2015, save that:

1. 

none of the Directors are appointed for a specific term since 
they are subject to retirement by rotation and re-election in 
accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company. 
Under Article 107(A) of the Articles of Association of  
the Company, one-third of the Board must retire by rotation 
at each general meeting of the Company, and if eligible, offer 
themselves for re-election.

2.  Mr Horst Julius Pudwill (Chairman of the Board) and Mr Joel 
Arthur Schleicher (an Independent Non-executive Director), 
who has retired after conclusion of the annual general meeting 
of the Company held on May 22, 2015 (the “2015 Annual 
General Meeting”), were unable to attend the 2015 Annual 
General Meeting due to business reason and prior engagement 
respectively.

The Company has also voluntarily complied with a number of the 
recommended best practices set out in the Corporate Governance 
Code, aimed at further enhancement of the Company’s corporate 
governance standard as well as promotion of the best interests of  
the Company and shareholders as a whole.

Corporate Governance Policy
The Board develops, reviews and monitors the corporate governance 
policies and practices to ensure compliance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association and the laws, rules and regulatory requirements 
governing the Group. The Board performs the corporate governance 
function by, but not limited to, the following:

• 

• 

• 

review the disclosure set out in this Corporate Governance 
Report and the compliance of the Corporate Governance Code.

monitor and review compliance of the Model Code for 
Securities Transactions by Directors, the Code for Securities 
Transactions by Relevant Employees and other codes of 
conduct of the Company.

review and monitor the training and continuous professional 
development of Directors and senior management.

Board of Directors
Roles and Responsibilities
The Board is responsible for leading, directing and supervising  
the Group affairs collectively with an effective corporate governance 
framework for the long term success of the Company. The principal 
responsibilities of the Board include, but are not limited to,  
the following:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

review and formulate overall mid-term and long-term strategy 
and direction of the Company.

consider matters covering appointment of Directors, senior 
management and external auditors, major acquisitions and 
disposals and other significant operational matters.

review and develop the Company’s policies and practices on 
corporate governance.

monitor risks and changes in local and international business 
communities in order to enhance shareholders’ value.

control and oversee the Company’s operations and financial 
performance through the determination of the annual budget 
and continuous review of performance results.

The Company has adopted formal written procedures, which 
are reviewed regularly, in order to govern the delegation of daily 
management responsibilities to the senior management of the Group, 
as well as to monitor the delegation and the reservation to the Board 
of specifically identified matters.

45

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Corporate Governance ReportBoard Composition
As at the date of this report, the Board consists of five Group Executive Directors, two Non-executive Directors and four Independent  
Non-executive Directors. An analysis of the current composition of the Board of the Company is set out below:

Group Executive Directors
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill (Chairman)
Mr Joseph Galli Jr (Chief Executive Officer)
Mr Kin Wah Chan (Operations Director)
Mr Chi Chung Chan (Group Chief Financial Officer)
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill (President of Strategic Planning)

Non-executive Directors
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP
Mr Camille Jojo

Independent Non-executive Directors
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Number of Directors

The biographical details and relevant relationships of the members of the Board are set out on pages 38 to 41 of this annual report. A list of 
Directors and their roles and functions are published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com) and the Stock Exchange’s website  
(www.hkexnews.hk).

46

Corporate Governance ReportTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
Appropriate Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance cover has been 
arranged to indemnify the Directors and Officers of the Group for 
liabilities arising out of corporate activities. The coverage and the sum 
insured under the policy are reviewed annually.

In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and 
the Listing Rules, Directors are subject to retirement by rotation 
at least once every three years. Any Directors appointed to fill a 
casual vacancy would be subject to election by shareholders at 
the next annual general meeting after their appointment. As at 
the date of this report, Independent Non-executive Directors and 
Non-executive Directors form a majority of the Board, and the 
Independent Non-executive Directors represent over one-third of 
the Board. Furthermore, each of the Independent Non-executive 
Directors possesses professional qualifications or accounting or 
related financial management expertise as required under Rule 3.10 
of the Listing Rules. All Independent Non-executive Directors meet 
the guidelines for assessing independence set out in Rule 3.13 of 
the Listing Rules. The Company has received annual confirmation of 
independence from each of the Independent Non-executive Directors 
and still considers them to be independent.

Directors’ Continuous Professional Development
All Directors are provided with regular training, updates and written 
materials on relevant laws, rules and regulations to ensure that 
Directors are aware of the latest changes in the commercial and 
regulatory environment in which the Company conducts its business. 
The Directors are encouraged to participate in various professional 
development programs especially in relation to the latest updates on 
relevant rules, regulations and compliance requirements to develop 
and refresh their knowledge and skills in order to ensure that the 
Directors’ contribution to the Board remains informed and relevant.

The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company 
have been segregated and clearly distinguished in order to promote 
balance of power and authority.

The roles of Chairman comprise, but are not limited to, the following:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

monitor corporate governance practices and procedures and 
ensure good practices and procedures are established.

encourage all Directors to make full and active contributions to 
the Board’s affairs and take the lead to ensure the Board acts 
in the best interests of the Company.

make sure all Directors receive timely, accurate and reliable 
information and are properly briefed on issues arising at Board 
meetings.

lead the Board to ensure it performs effectively and discharges 
its responsibilities.

ensure appropriate steps are taken to provide effective 
communication with shareholders and that the views of 
shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole.

The roles of Chief Executive Officer comprise, but are not limited to, 
the following:

• 

• 

provide leadership for the global management team in the 
Group’s daily operations.

enhance the global sales potential of the Company’s strong 
brand portfolio and facilitate the integration of acquisitions,  
if any.

Directors are aware that they must be able to contribute sufficient 
time and attention to the affairs of the Company before accepting 
his appointment as Director. A formal orientation, which details 
the duties and responsibilities of Directors under the Listing Rules, 
the Company’s Articles of Association, and related ordinances and 
relevant regulatory requirements of Hong Kong, is provided for each 
newly appointed Director. Presentations by external professionals 
and senior executives of the Company are also provided to ensure a 
proper understanding of the Company’s business and operations.

47

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015All Directors participate in continuous professional development as set out in code provision A.6.5 of the Corporate Governance Code. According 
to the records of training provided by each Director to the Company, the training received by all Directors in 2015 is summarized in the following 
table:

Type of Continuous Professional Development Programme

Updates on business 
operations, laws, 
rules and regulations 
or corporate 
governance matters

Updates 
on directors’ 
roles, functions 
and duties

Updates 
on accounting, 
financial or other 
professional skills

√
√
√
√
√

√
√

√
√
√
√

√
√
√
√
√

√
√

√
√
√
√

√
√

√
√

√

√

Board Meetings
There are at least four scheduled Board meetings in a year, with 
more frequent meetings as and when required to facilitate the 
effectiveness of the Board. All Directors are provided with timely, 
reliable and complete information on the affairs of the Group, and 
have access to all related materials in relation to the Board’s issues to 
enable informed decisions with sufficient details. All Directors receive 
support from and access to the Company Secretary of the Company  
(the “Company Secretary”) to ensure Board procedures and all 
applicable laws, rules and regulations are followed. Directors are 
also provided with access to senior management of the Group at 
their request, as well as to independent professional advice on 
performing their duties at the Company’s expense. To ensure a 
proper understanding of the business of the Group and Directors’ 
responsibilities under statute and at common law, all Directors are 
provided with briefings and professional development training as 
necessary.

Four Board meetings were held in 2015. The attendance records of 
each Director are set out in the section “Board, Board Committee 
and General Meetings in 2015” at the end of this report. The meeting 
agenda is set by the Chairman in consultation with members of the 
Board to include any other matters raised by Directors in advance. 
Minutes of the Board and Board Committee meetings with sufficient 
details of matters and concerns discussed are kept in safe custody 
by the Company Secretary, are sent to the Directors for comment and 
records, and are open for inspection by the Directors. To facilitate 
maximum attendance of Directors, Board meeting, Board Committee 
meeting and Annual General Meeting dates for 2016 were agreed 
upon at the Board meeting held in August 2015.

Group Executive Directors
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill
Mr Joseph Galli Jr
Mr Kin Wah Chan
Mr Chi Chung Chan
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Non-executive Directors
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP
Mr Camille Jojo

Independent Non-executive Directors
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Compliance with the Codes for Securities 
Transactions
The Board has adopted the provisions of the Model Code for 
Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers set out in 
Appendix 10 of the Listing Rules (the “Model Code”). Specific 
enquiries have been made with all Directors who have confimed that 
they have fully complied with the required standards as set out in the 
Model Code during the year ended December 31, 2015.

Another code of conduct on terms no less onerous than the Model 
Code that applies to securities transactions of all relevant employees 
who may be in possession of unpublished price sensitive information 
in relation to the Company (the “Code for Securities Transactions by 
Relevant Employees”) has also been adopted. No incident of  
non-compliance was noted by the Company during the year.

Both the Model Code and the Code for Securities Transactions by 
Relevant Employees have been published on the Company’s website 
(www.ttigroup.com).

48

Corporate Governance ReportTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Board Committees
The Board has set up three Board Committees, namely the Audit 
Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration 
Committee, to delegate various responsibilities. Each of these Board 
Committees has specific written terms of reference which deal clearly 
with their authority and duties and have been published on the 
Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com) and the Stock Exchange’s 
website (www.hkexnews.hk).

All Board Committees are formed by a majority of Independent  
Non-executive Directors with regular attendance and active 
participation to ensure independent views and opinions contributed 
and expressed at the Board Committee meetings. The Board monitors 
and oversees the delegated authority and responsibilities through 
regular reporting by the Board Committees in relation to their activities 
involved and recommendations and decisions made. The attendance 
records of each Board Committee are set out in the section “Board, 
Board Committee and General Meetings in 2015” at the end of this 
report.

Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is formed by three Independent Non-executive 
Directors and chaired by Mr Peter David Sullivan with other members 
being Mr Manfred Kuhlmann and Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung (who 
has been appointed in replacement of Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher with 
effect from May 22, 2015). Each member of the Audit Committee 
has professional qualifications or accounting or related financial 
management expertise as required under Rule 3.10 of the Listing 
Rules.

The Audit Committee aims to ensure the compliance with the 
Group’s obligations under the Listing Rules and other applicable 
laws and regulations as well as effectiveness of the internal control 
system. It also oversees the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Company. The Audit Committee is also directly responsible on behalf 
of the Board for the selection, oversight and remuneration of the 
Company’s external auditors, the assessment of the independence 
and qualifications of the external auditors; the oversight of the 
performance of the Company’s external auditors and the maintenance 
of an appropriate relationship with the external auditors.

The Audit Committee held four meetings in 2015 and performed 
duties summarised below:

• 

• 

• 

review the Group’s risk management and internal controls.

perform regular update and review on internal audit of the 
Group.

review the interim and annual financial statements of the Group 
before submission to the Board.

• 

• 

recommend the re-appointment of the external auditors 
and review the audit and non-audit services provided by the 
external auditors.

review the Group’s accounting principles and practices, 
significant financial matters and financial reporting matters.

Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr Horst Julius Pudwill 
(Chairman of the Board) with the other members being  
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung, Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE and 
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann. All members except Mr Horst Julius Pudwill 
are Independent Non-executive Directors.

The Nomination Committee aims to ensure a fair and transparent 
process of Board appointments, and in particular, to assist the Board 
to identify suitably qualified candidates and make recommendations 
for consideration of the Board and shareholders. In their 
recommendations, the Nomination Committee considers factors 
including, but not limited to, ethics, professional knowledge, integrity, 
industry experience and personal skills as well as the ability to 
contribute sufficient time and attention to the Board when considering 
suitable candidates of Directors.

The Nomination Committee held two meetings in 2015. The work 
performed by the Nomination Committee in 2015, with sufficient 
resources provided by the Company and/or independent professional 
advice when necessary, included:

• 

• 

• 

• 

assess the independence of Independent Non-executive 
Directors.

review the Board Diversity Policy and the Nomination Policy.

make recommendations to the Board on relevant matters 
relating to the retirement and re-election of the Directors at the 
2015 Annual General Meeting.

review of the structure, size and composition of the Board on a 
regular basis.

The Board has adopted the Board Diversity Policy with 
recommendation from the Nomination Committee in August 2013, 
which is published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com). 
Widening diversity at the Board level is essential for sustainable 
development of the Group. The Nomination Committee would 
consider various perspectives, including, but not limited to, age, 
gender, cultural and educational background, professional experience 
and length of service while reviewing the composition of the Board. 
An analysis of the current Board composition based on these 
objective criteria is set out on page 46 of this report.

49

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is formed by four Independent  
Non-executive Directors and is chaired by Mr Vincent Ting Kau 
Cheung with the other members being Mr Christopher Patrick 
Langley OBE, Mr Manfred Kuhlmann and Mr Peter David Sullivan.

The Remuneration Committee aims to develop and administer 
a fair and transparent procedure for setting policy on the overall 
human resources strategy of the Group and the remuneration of 
Directors and senior management of the Group, and determine their 
remuneration packages, on the basis of their competence, merit and 
qualifications, and having regard to individual performance,  
the Company’s operating results, and comparable market statistics. 
The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board 
on the remuneration packages of Executive Directors and senior 
management, including, without limitation, base salaries, benefits 
in kind, compensation payments and bonuses, and consults the 
Chairman and/or Chief Executive Officer for the proposals of other 
Executive Directors’ remuneration packages. The Remuneration 
Committee also makes recommendations to the Board on the 
remuneration of Non-executive Directors and Independent  
Non-executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee reports 
directly to the Board on its decisions or recommendations and with 
access to sufficient resources and professional advice if necessary.

The Remuneration Committee held two meetings in 2015 and 
performed, among other work, the following:

• 

• 

assess the Executive Directors’ performance and remuneration 
packages.

review and make recommendations on the existing 
Remuneration Policy for Directors and senior management.

The Board adopted the Share Award Scheme (the “Scheme”) on 
January 9, 2008 (the “Adoption Date”), pursuant to which any 
employee or Director (including, without limitation, any Executive, 
Non-executive or Independent Non-executive Director) of any 
member of the Group (the “Eligible Person”) will be entitled to 
participate. Unless terminated earlier by the Board in accordance with 
the rules relating to the Scheme, the Scheme is valid and effective for 
a term of 10 years commencing on the Adoption Date provided that 
no contribution to the trust will be made by the Company on or after 
the 10th anniversary date of the Adoption Date. Details of the Scheme 
were announced by the Company on the Adoption Date.

The Board may, from time to time, at their absolute discretion select 
any Eligible Person for participation in the Scheme as a selected 
grantee (the “Selected Grantee”) and determine the number of 
shares to be awarded or make reference to a nominal amount. The 
relevant number of shares awarded will be purchased by the trustee 
of the Scheme from the market or the news shares will be subscribed 
for at the cost of the Company and be held in trust until they are 
vested. When the Selected Grantee has satisfied all vesting conditions 
specified by the Board, the trustee of the Scheme will transfer the 
relevant vested shares together with the income derived therefrom  
(net of accrued interest) to the Selected Grantee.

The maximum number of shares which can be awarded under 
the Scheme is 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as 
at the Adoption Date, and the maximum number of shares which 
can be awarded to a Selected Grantee, at any one time, shall not in 
aggregate exceed 1% of the issued share capital of the Company as 
at the Adoption Date. The total issued share capital of the Company 
as at the Adoption Date is 1,501,252,152 shares.

During the year ended December 31, 2015, a total of 1,800,000 
shares had been awarded under the Scheme, representing 0.12% 
of the issued share capital of the Company as at the Adoption Date, 
to five Directors of the Company. The total payout, including related 
expenses, amounted to US$6,023,000.

50

Corporate Governance ReportTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015As at December 31, 2015, details of the awarded shares under the Scheme were as follows:

Number of shares

Awarded 
during the year

Vested 
during the year

Lapsed 
during the year

—
—
—
500,000
1,000,000
100,000
100,000
100,000

(116,500)
(58,000)
(100,000)
—
—
—
—
—

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

As at 
January 1, 
2015

350,000
174,000
300,000
—
—
—
—
—

As at 
December 31, 
2015

233,500
116,000
200,000
500,000
1,000,000
100,000
100,000
100,000

Vesting Period

18.9.2015 -  18.9.2017
26.9.2015 -  26.9.2017
17.12.2015 - 17.12.2017
15.10.2016 - 15.10.2017
15.10.2016 - 15.10.2017
15.10.2016
15.10.2016
15.10.2016

Closing 
price at the 
Date of Award

HK$22.50
HK$22.10
HK$25.85
HK$27.10
HK$27.10
HK$27.10
HK$27.10
HK$27.10

Name of Directors

Date of Award

Horst Julius Pudwill
Horst Julius Pudwill
Joseph Galli Jr
Horst Julius Pudwill
Joseph Galli Jr
Kin Wah Chan
Chi Chung Chan
Stephan Horst Pudwill

Notes:

18.9.2014
26.9.2014
17.12.2014
15.10.2015
15.10.2015
15.10.2015
15.10.2015
15.10.2015

(1) 

All the awarded shares are purchased from the market.

(2) 

At the end of the year, the average fair value per share is HK$26.00. The average fair value of the awarded shares is based on the average purchase cost.

Company Secretary
The Company Secretary is responsible for facilitating information flow 
and communication among Directors as well as with Shareholders 
and management of the Company. All Directors have access to 
the advice and services of the Company Secretary. The Company 
Secretary is also responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are 
followed. The Company Secretary is an employee of the Company 
and is appointed by the Board. During 2015, the Company Secretary 
undertook over 15 hours of professional training to update her skills 
and knowledge.

Accountability and Audit
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for overseeing the 
preparation of the accounts of the Group which give a true and fair 
view of the Group’s state of affairs, results and cash flows for the year.

The Board will present a balanced, clear and understandable 
assessment of annual and interim reports, other price-sensitive 
announcements and other financial disclosures required under the 
Listing Rules, and reports to the regulators as well as information 
required to be disclosed pursuant to statutory requirements.

Internal Controls
The Board is responsible for approving and reviewing key internal 
control policies which include the treasury management policy, 
delegated authorities, policy on market disclosure, investor and media 
relations and non-audit services. To maintain a sound and effective 
internal control system, the Board conducts an annual review of the 
effectiveness of the internal control system of the Company, which 
is designed to manage and minimise risks of failure in operational 
systems, and to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that 
material misstatement or loss can be avoided.

The Board, and in particular the Audit Committee, conducts a 
continuous review of the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
control system that has been put in place. The reviews covering 
financial, operational, and compliance controls and risk management 
performed in 2015 included:

• 

• 

• 

• 

the delegated authorities and organisation structure as well as 
the strategic and annual operating plan.

the scope and quality of management’s ongoing monitoring 
of risks and system of internal control and the effectiveness of 
the Company’s procedures relating to statutory and regulatory 
compliance.

the risk management process including formal risk 
assessment at the enterprise level upon discussions with 
senior management responsible for day-to-day management of 
significant risks.

the performance and adequacy of accounting and financial 
reporting functions.

External Auditors
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, the external auditors of the Group, 
provided the following audit and non-audit services to the Group in 
2015:

Nature of Services

External Audit Services
Taxation Services
Other Services

Amount
(US$ million)

2.4
—
0.1

The other services provided by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu comprised 
professional services conducted under the terms of specified 
engagements.

51

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Directors do not, within 21 days after the date on which they 
become subject to the requirement, proceed duly to convene an EGM 
for a day not more than 28 days after the date of the notice convening 
the EGM, the Requisitionists, or any of them representing more 
than one half of the total voting rights of all of them, may themselves 
convene an EGM. The EGM must be called for a date not more than 
three months after the date on which the Directors become subject to 
the requirement to call an EGM. Any reasonable expenses incurred 
by the Requisitionists by reason of the failure of the Directors duly 
to convene an EGM shall be repaid to the Requisitionists by the 
Company.

Procedure for nominating a person for election as a Director

For the detailed procedure for shareholders to nominate a person to 
stand for election as Director, please refer to the written procedure 
named “Nomination of Directors by Shareholder” which is published 
on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com).

Procedure for directing shareholders’ enquiries to the Board
The Company values feedback from shareholders on its efforts to 
promote transparency and foster investor relationships. Shareholders 
may address their comments, suggestions and/or enquires to the 
Board in writing through Investor Relations and Communication 
(contact details are set out in the section “Corporate Information” of 
this annual report).

Procedure for putting forward proposals at general meetings

Pursuant to Section 615 of the Companies Ordinance (Chapter 
622 of the laws of Hong Kong), shareholders may submit a written 
requisition to circulate a resolution at an annual general meeting 
(“AGM”) if they: (a) represent at least 2.5% of the total voting rights of 
all shareholders having a right to vote on the resolution at the AGM to 
which the request relates; or (b) are at least 50 shareholders having 
a right to vote on the resolution at the AGM to which the request 
relates.

The written requisition must: (a) identify the resolution of which notice 
is to be given; (b) be signed by the requisitionists; (c) be sent to the 
registered office of the Company for the attention of the Company 
Secretary; and (d) be received by the Company not later than six 
weeks before the AGM to which the request relates or if later, the time 
at which notice is given of that AGM. Shareholders are requested to 
refer to Section 580 and 615 of the Companies Ordinance (Chapter 
622 of the laws of Hong Kong) for further details.

The nature and ratio of annual fees to external auditors for audit 
services and non-audit services are subject to scrutiny by the Audit 
Committee to ensure the independence of the external auditors. All 
non-audit services from external auditors are regulated by a Policy on 
Non-Audit Services published on the Company’s website  
(www.ttigroup.com).

The Audit Committee and the external auditors of the Group meet 
twice a year without the presence of the management of the Group 
to enhance independent reporting by external auditors of the Group. 
In order to maintain effective communication with shareholders, 
the external auditors attended the 2015 Annual General Meeting 
to answer questions about the accounting policies, the auditor 
independence, the conduct of the audit and the preparation and 
content of the auditors’ report.

Investor Relations and Shareholder 
Communications
The Company aims to maintain effective communication and  
on-going dialogue with its shareholders and investors particularly 
through the following major means:

Shareholders’ Communication Policy
The Shareholders’ Communication Policy, which primarily covers 
the current practices for communicating with shareholders and 
is published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com), was 
adopted by the Board on March 22, 2012. All the Company’s 
circulars, announcements, notices and results of general meetings, 
annual and interim reports, and webcasts of results presentations 
conducted at press conferences, which are published on the 
Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com), provide timely, efficient 
and accurate information to shareholders and investors. Essential 
information is communicated to the shareholders mainly through  
the Company’s financial reports, general meetings and the 
information published on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com) 
and the Stock Exchange’s website (www.hkexnews.hk). In addition, 
the Company holds regular meetings with institutional shareholders 
and analysts and encourages shareholders to attend annual general 
meetings to communicate with Directors and management of the 
Company directly.

A Policy on Market Disclosure, Investor and Media Relations, published 
on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com), ensures that the 
Company complies with its disclosure obligations under the Listing Rules 
and other applicable laws and regulations, and that all shareholders 
and potential investors have an equal opportunity to receive and obtain 
externally available information issued by the Company.

Shareholders’ Rights
Convening of extraordinary general meeting on requisition by 
shareholders
Pursuant to Article 64 of the Articles of Association of the Company 
and Sections 566-568 of the Companies Ordinance (Chapter 622 of 
the laws of Hong Kong), shareholders holding at least 5% of the total 
voting rights of all the shareholders having a right to vote at general 
meetings of the Company (the “Requisitionists”), may request the 
Directors to convene an extraordinary general meeting (“EGM”). The 
written requisition must state the general nature of the business to be 
dealt with at the EGM and must be signed by the Requisitionists and 
sent to the registered office of the Company which is currently located 
at 29/F, Tower 2, Kowloon Commerce Centre, 51 Kwai Cheong 
Road, Kwai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong for the attention 
of the Company Secretary. The requisition may consist of several 
documents in like form and may include the text of a resolution that 
may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the EGM.

52

Corporate Governance ReportTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Constitutional Document
In response to the introduction of the Companies Ordinance 
(Chapter 622 of the laws of Hong Kong) on March 3, 2014, the new 
Articles of Association of the Company were adopted at the 2015 
Annual General Meeting so as to incorporate key changes under 
the Companies Ordinance (Chapter 622 of the laws of Hong Kong). 
The constitutional document of the Company was published on the 
Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com) and the Stock Exchange’s 
website (www.hkexnews.hk).

Board, Board Committee and General Meetings 
in 2015
A summary of attendance of Board, Board Committee and general 
meetings in 2015 are detailed in the following table:

Number of meeting(s) held during the year

Group Executive Directors
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill
Mr Joseph Galli Jr
Mr Kin Wah Chan
Mr Chi Chung Chan
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Non-executive Directors
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP
Mr Camille Jojo(1)

Independent Non-executive Directors
Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher(2)
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Date(s) of meeting(s)

Meetings attended/Held in 2015

Board

Audit 
Committee

Nomination 
Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

General 
Meeting

4

4/4
4/4
4/4
4/4
4/4

4/4
0/0(1)

3/3(2)
4/4
4/4
4/4
4/4

4

3/3(2)

4/4
4/4
1/1(3)

2

2/2

2/2
2/2

2/2

2

1/1(2)
2/2
2/2
2/2
2/2

1

0/1(4)
1/1
1/1
1/1
1/1

1/1
0/0(1)

0/1(5)
1/1
1/1
1/1
1/1

20.1.2015
18.3.2015
21.5.2015
19.8.2015

20.1.2015
16.3.2015
21.5.2015
18.8.2015

17.3.2015
18.8.2015

17.3.2015
18.8.2015

22.5.2015

Notes:

(1) 

Mr Camille Jojo was appointed as Non-executive Director on October 30, 2015.

(2) 

Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher retired as Independent Non-executive Director after conclusion of the 2015 Annual General Meeting.

(3) 

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung was appointed as a member of the Audit Committee in replacement of Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher with effect from May 22, 2015.

(4) 

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill (the Chairman of the Board) was unable to attend the 2015 Annual General Meeting due to business reason.

(5) 

Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher was unable to attend the 2015 Annual General Meeting due to prior engagement.

53

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Message from the CEO
TTI continually strives to be a socially responsible global citizen. Our 
commitment to sustainability creates value for our shareholders and 
customers and reduces the impact we have on the environment. 
As an industry leader in battery-powered power tools and power 
equipment, TTI pioneered the shift from nickel-cadmium batteries 
to lithium-ion batteries, which are more efficient and have a longer 
useful life, thus reducing the frequency with which consumers must 
replace their batteries. TTI’s environmentally-conscious innovation 
is a large part of TTI’s commitment to sustainability, and we plan to 
continue to solidify our leadership position in the industry as a product 
innovator, while remaining steadfast to protecting the environment. 
As a leader in innovation, we will continue to dedicate ourselves to 
delivering world-class, high-quality, safe, and environmentally friendly 
products to our customers. We also believe that it is in our and our 
stakeholders’ best interests to participate in a global marketplace 
in which companies compete fairly, free of corruption, and we will 
continue to foster cultures and policies in keeping with that belief. 
We are also committed to providing a safe and personally rewarding 
workplace for our employees, who are key to our success.

Scope of Report
While TTI has numerous manufacturing and other facilities across the 
world, TTI’s largest facility is located in the Asia Industrial Park (AIP) 
in Dongguan, the People’s Republic of China (PRC) which employs 
over 11,000 workers across a wide variety of disciplines, and has the 
potential for the greatest environmental impact.

Working Conditions
The workforce at AIP comprises of: (1) workers who work on 
the production line and operate machinery; (2) workers who 
serve support functions, such as quality control inspectors and 
warehousing; and (3) professional and other staff, such as technical 
designers and engineers.

We recognize the need to have a skilled/competent workforce and 
have made and continue to make efforts to attract new talent through 
partnerships with various Chinese universities. We also organically 
develop new talent through internship programs, as well as training 
and rotation programs that allow workers to develop diverse skills and 
receive incentives for their efforts. As a means to maintain and retain 
a talented workforce, AIP continually offers numerous amenities and 
social activities for its employees.

In May, 2015, the provincial government of Guangdong raised the 
minimum monthly base salary. Accordingly, Guangdong’s new 
minimum monthly base salary was increased to the current rate 
already being paid by TTI to its employees. TTI examined its existing 
compensation scheme at AIP, and adopted a new compensation 
policy not only raising its current minimum monthly base, already in 
compliance with Guangdong’s new minimum monthly base salary, 
but reviewed the salaries of those employees unaffected by this 
change for potential upward adjustments. TTI also increased seniority 
pay, increased meal subsidies and initiated an Invention Reward 
Policy compensating engineers whose innovative ideas have been 
commercially successful and patents have been granted. We also 
comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding overtime 
compensation.

Health and Safety
TTI established an Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) 
committee and PRC Production Safety Standards. The EHS 
committee is responsible for overseeing the implementation and 
continual monitoring of key health-and-safety-related issues, 
including conducting regular safety inspections, monitoring high risk 
operations, identifying and monitoring occupational harmful factors 
and providing safety equipment, providing for occupational health 
exams and maintaining related records, and continually monitoring 
laws and regulations to ensure compliance. Through its policies 
and standards, the EHS committee strives to eliminate work-related 
injuries. In fact, the total rate of workplace injuries has continually 
decreased each year since the establishment of the EHS committee 
and PRC Production Safety Standards. In 2015, work-related injuries 
were down 4 percent (4%) from 2014.

Environmental Protection
For many years, TTI has strived to reduce its carbon emissions 
through a number of different programs and initiatives and was hailed 
as the first global manufacturer to receive the Intertek Solutions 
Think Green Initiative (TGI) Achievement Award in 2010 due to 
those efforts. TTI has continued these efforts in order to preserve a 
sustainable environment for generations to come.

54

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 Environmental, Social and Governance ReportTTI is committed to reducing its impact on the environment in 
innovative ways throughout its operations. We have identified 
many win-win opportunities that allow us to reduce costs and 
carbon emissions simultaneously. In 2015, we adopted a number 
of measures that limited the impact of our operations on the 
environment, such as reducing our carbon emissions by 1,744 tons 
and creating energy savings by using recycled water from the water 
treatment station to supply the plant, replacing various lighting 
sources with LED tubes, installing energy-conserving boilers, and 
replacing energy-consuming motors with energy-conserving motors. 
TTI’s commitment to the environment further includes our ongoing 
recycling of waste materials including plastic, wood, metal, and 
paper, as well as our reuse of packing materials. TTI also partners 
with Home Depot to recycle batteries, and its subsidiaries work with 
various organizations in the countries where they are located to have 
drop-off sites for used batteries to encourage recycling.

Additionally, we require our business partners to comply with all 
relevant local and international environmental regulations and 
standards, and also require that they assign responsibility for 
environmental matters to a senior management representative. We 
also encourage our business partners to adopt initiatives to reduce 
the environmental impact of their operations.

Operating Practices – Product Responsibility
Conflict Minerals
TTI, acting in conjunction with many of our partners and in an effort 
to ensure an ethical supply chain, has adopted a comprehensive 
Conflict Minerals Policy, which applies not only to TTI and its related 
entities, but also down the supply chain. The policy establishes a 
mandatory framework for TTI and its suppliers for conducting due 
diligence and a Reasonable Country of Origin Inquiry (“RCOI”), 
requiring TTI’s suppliers to agree to the terms of the policy and assist 
TTI with identifying the source of any gold, tungsten, tin, or tantalum 
(together “3TG”) that has been used in TTI’s products.

Quality Control
TTI has established and integrated a Quality Management System 
(QMS) based on the quality system requirements defined by 
applicable laws and regulations. The quality management system 
scope covers TTI’s products and services and the management of 
outsourced activities for which the Group retains overall responsibility. 
TTI ensures the suitability and effectiveness of the quality system 
at defined intervals and with sufficient frequency according to 
established procedures to ensure that the quality system is compliant 
with all applicable requirements, policies and objectives.

TTI management ensures that the Quality Management System 
procedures are implemented in order to make employees aware of the 
importance of meeting customer requirements, as well as statutory 
and regulatory requirements. Policies and objectives are established 
and communicated, and regular management review is conducted 
to review performance of the Quality Management System. TTI 
management also ensures that appropriate communication processes 
are established within the company to include departmental internal 
meeting and internal publication. The performance effectiveness 
of the Quality Management System, issues related to policies and 
execution plans, management requirements and changes, and 
hazardous substances information is routinely communicated to 
relevant staff at TTI.

Product Recalls
TTI takes its commitment to product safety seriously, using rigorous 
product protocols to ensure that products being manufactured at 
its facilities are free from defect. In the event that a manufacturing 
defect is detected, TTI has detailed recall procedures in place to 
institute prompt and effective remedial action. These procedures help 
minimize the amount of distributed product that are recalled and help 
ensure high rates of retrieval and return of recalled product. These 
procedures identify decision makers and team members and assign 
particular duties to particular roles allowing for immediate action in all 
impacted regions across the globe.

Operating Practices – Anti-corruption
TTI is committed to compliance with all applicable anti-corruption 
laws and regulations and prohibits its employees or anyone acting 
on behalf of its companies and its business partners from offering, 
making, or receiving any bribes or kickbacks, giving anything of 
value for the purpose of securing an improper business advantage, 
or otherwise engaging in corrupt activities or practices. We further 
encourage our employees and business partners to promptly 
report violations of any law or policy so that they may be dealt with 
appropriately.

Complaint Resolution Policy
To encourage the reporting of conduct that is offensive to TTI’s Code 
of Conduct, applicable laws or regulations, or activities that otherwise 
run counter to TTI’s policies, and in order to ensure compliance 
with our commitment to conducting business ethically, we adopted 
a policy in 2010 that allows anyone to report activity without fear 
of reprisal. There is a single, streamlined process that allows the 
complainant to identify himself or herself or to remain anonymous. 
Individuals have the option to report directly to the General Counsel 
or to an independent third party retained to operate the hotline. 
Reporting can be done by phone, email, fax, or online.

55

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Community Involvement
At TTI, we encourage individual participation and involvement 
in community affairs. We actively engage with the community as 
part of our internship program, wherein we visit campuses and 
host interviews. We hire up to 50 interns per year at AIP allowing 
students to gain practical experience in their areas of study. These 
students often come to work for TTI upon graduation. In addition, we 
offer extended skills-based training in our machine shop, allowing 
candidates the opportunity to learn how to operate machinery, with 
the potential for later joining the TTI team as an employee.

At the AIP facility, our employees also have many opportunities to 
give back to the local community and many of them do so. These 
volunteers spend time visiting and engaging with the elderly in 
nursing homes, host food and clothing drives, and send aid to victims 
of disasters. TTI proudly supports these employees in giving back 
to the local community by outfitting them with the necessary tools 
and equipment to complete high quality work in the most efficient 
manner.

56

 Environmental, Social and Governance ReportTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015The directors have the pleasure in presenting their annual report and 
the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 
2015.

Share Capital
Details of movements during the year in the share capital of the 
Company are set out in Note 38 to the financial statements.

Principal Activities and Business Review
The Company acts as an investment holding company.

The principal activities of the principal subsidiaries and associate are 
set out in Notes 51 and 52 to the financial statements, respectively.

Further discussion and analysis of these activities as required by 
Schedule 5 to the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622 of the Laws of 
Hong Kong) (the “Company Ordinance”), including a fair review of 
the business and a discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties 
facing the Group, particulars of important events affecting the Group 
that have occurred since the end of the financial year 2015, and an 
indication of likely future development in the Group’s business, can 
be found in the “Chairman’s Statement”, “Chief Executive Officer’s 
Message”, “Review of Operations”, “Management’s Discussion and 
Analysis”, “Corporate Governance Report”, “Environmental, Social 
and Governance Report”, and “Financial Summary” sections of this 
Annual Report respectively. The above sections form part of this 
report.

Results and Appropriations
The results of the Group for the year ended December 31, 2015 
are set out in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income on page 68.

An interim dividend of HK16.00 cents (approximately US2.06 cents) 
per share amounting to approximately US$37,726,000 was paid to 
the shareholders during the year.

The directors now recommend the payment of a final dividend 
of HK23.25 cents (approximately US2.99 cents) per share to 
the shareholders on the register of members on May 27, 2016, 
amounting to approximately US$54,871,000.

Property, Plant and Equipment
The Group continued to expand its business and during the year 
spent approximately US$74,510,000 on leasehold land and building, 
acquired moulds and tooling for approximately US$16,958,000, office 
equipment, furniture and fixtures for approximately US$13,024,000 
and plant and machinery for approximately US$23,591,000. Details 
of these and other movements in the property, plant and equipment 
of the Group and the Company during the year are set out in Note 16 
to the financial statements.

Directors
The directors of the Company during the year and up to the date of 
this report were:

Group Executive Directors:
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill, Chairman
Mr Joseph Galli Jr, Chief Executive Officer
Mr Kin Wah Chan
Mr Chi Chung Chan
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Non-executive Directors:
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP
Mr Camille Jojo (appointed on October 30, 2015)

Independent Non-executive Directors:
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung
Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher (retired after the conclusion of the annual

general meeting of the Company held on May 22, 2015)

In accordance with Article 107(A) of the Company’s Articles of 
Association, Messrs. Kin Wah Chan, Roy Chi Ping Chung, Christopher 
Patrick Langley and Manfred Kuhlmann will retire at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting, being eligible, will offer themselves for 
re-election. In accordance with Article 98 of the Company’s Articles of 
Association, Mr Camille Jojo, who was appointed during 2015, shall 
retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, being eligible, will 
offer himself for re-election.

No director proposed for re-election at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting has a service contract which is not determinable by 
the Group within one year without payment of compensation, other 
than statutory compensation.

Terms of Office of Non-executive Directors and 
Independent Non-executive Directors
The term of office for each of the Non-executive Directors and 
Independent Non-executive Directors is the period up to his 
retirement by rotation in accordance with Article 107(A) of the 
Company’s Articles of Association.

57

Report of the DirectorsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
Directors of Subsidiaries
The names of all directors who have served on the boards of the 
subsidiaries of the Company during the year ended December 31, 
2015 and during the period from January 1, 2016 to the date of this 
Report are available on the Company’s website (www.ttigroup.com).

Name of directors

Capacity/Nature of interests

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Beneficial owner
Interests of spouse
Interests of controlled corporation

Beneficial owner

Beneficial owner

Beneficial owner

Directors’ and Chief Executive’s Interests
As at December 31, 2015, the interests and short positions of the 
directors and the chief executive of the Company in the shares, 
underlying shares and debentures of the Company or any of its 
associated corporations (within the meaning of Part XV of the 
Securities and Futures Ordinance (“SFO”)) which have been notified 
to the Company pursuant to Divisions 7 and 8 of Part XV of the SFO 
(including interests and short positions which any such director or 
chief executive was taken or deemed to have under such provisions 
of the SFO) or as recorded in the register required to be kept under 
section 352 of the SFO or otherwise notified to the Company and The 
Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited pursuant to the Model Code 
for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers as set out in 
Appendix 10 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The 
Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”) were as 
follows:

Interests in
shares (other
than pursuant
to equity
derivatives)(1)

149,443,500(2)

760,000

216,159,794(3)

Interests in
underlying
shares
pursuant
to equity
derivatives(1)

398,000
—
—

Total interests
in shares/
underlying
shares

Approximate
aggregate
percentage of
interests

366,761,294

20.00%

2,183,000(4)

1,000,000

3,183,000

100,000(5)

1,250,000

1,350,000

400,000(6)

1,250,000

1,650,000

0.17%

0.07%

0.09%

2.25%

Beneficial owner
Beneficiary of a trust

4,959,500(7)
34,007,500(8)

2,250,000
—

41,217,000

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Beneficial owner
Interests of controlled corporation

49,005,948
37,075,030(9)

150,000
—

86,230,978

4.70%

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Beneficial owner

200,000

150,000

350,000

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Beneficial owner

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Beneficial owner

—

—

500,000

500,000

800,000

800,000

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Beneficial owner

2,920,000

1,000,000

3,920,000

0.02%

0.03%

0.04%

0.21%

58

Report of the DirectorsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:

(1) 

Interests in shares and underlying shares stated above represent long 

positions of the Company.

The interests of the directors of the Company in the underlying shares 

pursuant to equity derivatives, which were held as beneficial owner, 

represent share options granted to them respectively pursuant to the share 

option schemes adopted by the Company, details of which are separately 

disclosed in the section headed “Share Options” below. These share options 

are physically settled and unlisted.

(2) 

These included Mr Horst Julius Pudwill’s interests in 1,024,000 awarded 

shares, of which 849,500 awarded shares remained unvested under the 

Share Options

Scheme adopted on May 29, 2007 (“Scheme D”)
Scheme D was adopted pursuant to a resolution passed on May 
29, 2007 for recognition of the contribution to the development and 
growth of the Group by the eligible persons. This scheme will expire 
on May 28, 2017. Under Scheme D, the Board of Directors of the 
Company may grant share options to the following eligible persons 
(and their wholly owned companies) of the Company, its subsidiaries 
and any companies in which the Group holds any equity interest, to 
subscribe for shares in the Company:

Share Award Scheme as of December 31, 2015. Details of Mr Horst Julius 

(i) 

employees; or

Pudwill’s awarded shares are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.

(3) 

These shares were held by the following companies in which Mr Horst Julius 

Directors or Officers); or

Pudwill has a beneficial interest:

(ii)  Non-executive Directors (including Independent Non-executive 

Sunning Inc.

Cordless Industries Company Limited *

No. of shares

179,084,764

37,075,030

216,159,794

(iii) 

secondees; or

(iv)  business partners, agents, consultants; or

(v) 

suppliers or customers; or

(4) 

These included Mr Joseph Galli Jr’s interests in 1,300,000 awarded shares, 

of which 1,200,000 awarded shares remained unvested under the Share 

Award Scheme as of December 31, 2015. Details of Mr Joseph Galli Jr’s 

awarded shares are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.

(5) 

These included Mr Kin Wah Chan’s interests in 100,000 awarded 

shares, which remained unvested under the Share Award Scheme as of 

December 31, 2015. Details of Mr Kin Wah Chan’s awarded shares are set 

out in the Corporate Governance Report.

(6) 

These included Mr Chi Chung Chan’s interests in 100,000 awarded 

shares, which remained unvested under the Share Award Scheme as of 

December 31, 2015. Details of Mr Chi Chung Chan’s awarded shares are set 

out in the Corporate Governance Report.

(7) 

These included Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill’s interests in 100,000 awarded 

shares, which remained unvested under the Share Award Scheme as of 

December 31, 2015. Details of Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill’s awarded shares 

are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.

(8) 

These shares were held by a trust of which Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill is one 

of the beneficiaries.

(9) 

These shares were held by Cordless Industries Company Limited* in which 

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP has a beneficial interest.

* 

Cordless Industries Company Limited is owned as to 70% by Mr Horst 

Julius Pudwill and as to 30% by Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP.

Save as disclosed above, none of the directors and the chief 
executive of the Company was interested or had any short position in 
any shares, underlying shares or debentures of the Company and its 
associated corporations (within the meaning of Part XV of the SFO) as 
at December 31, 2015.

(vi) 

any person or entity that provides research, development or 
other technological support; or

(vii)  shareholders.

Share options granted must be taken up within 21 days of the date of 
grant, upon payment of HK$1.00 in cash by way of consideration for 
the grant thereof. Share options may be exercised at any time, subject 
to vesting conditions from the date of grant to the tenth anniversary 
thereof. The subscription price is set at the highest of: the closing 
price of the shares on the date of offer of the share option; or the 
average closing price of shares as stated in the daily quotation sheets 
issued by the Stock Exchange for the five trading days immediately 
preceding the date of offer; or the nominal value of shares on the date 
of offer.

The maximum number of shares in respect of which share options 
may be granted under Scheme D is not permitted to exceed 30.0% of 
the issued share capital of the Company from time to time or 10.0% 
of shares in issue as at the adoption date of Scheme D. No person 
shall be granted an option which exceeds 1.0% of the shares in issue 
as at the date of offer in any 12-month period up to the date thereof.

Options may be exercised at any time after the first anniversary of 
the date of grant of the share option to the tenth anniversary of the 
date of grant. The exercise price is determined by the Directors of the 
Company, and will not be less than the higher of (i) the closing price 
of the Company’s shares on the date of grant, (ii) the average closing 
price of the shares for the five business days immediately preceding 
the date of grant; and (iii) the nominal value of the Company’s share.

59

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share Options (continued)
The following tables disclose movements in the Company’s share options during the year:

Date of share

Share option

Outstanding at

options

granted

scheme

category

beginning of

the year

Granted

during

the year

Exercised

during

the year

Lapsed

during

the year

26.11.2010

21.5.2012

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

16.11.2009

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

21.5.2012

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

11.9.2015

11.9.2015

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

11.9.2015

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

11.9.2015

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

11.9.2015

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

600,000

570,000

230,000

—

1,000,000

1,000,000

—

—

—

168,000

—

—

—

250,000

1,000,000

—

—

250,000

—

—

250,000

150,000

150,000

—

—

150,000

—

—

—

150,000

—

—

—

150,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

—

—

—

100,000

250,000

—

200,000

200,000

250,000

—

400,000

200,000

250,000

—

200,000

250,000

(600,000)

(570,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(200,000)

(250,000)

8,700,000

1,668,000

(1,620,000)

Outstanding

at end of

Subscription

the year

—

—

230,000

168,000

price

HK$

8.310

8.742

21.600

29.650

Exercise period

26.11.2010  -  25.11.2020

21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

20.3.2014  -  19.3.2024

11.9.2015  -  10.9.2025

1,000,000

6.770

16.11.2009  -  15.11.2019

1,000,000

250,000

1,000,000

250,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

250,000

21.600

29.650

21.600

29.650

8.742

21.600

29.650

20.3.2014  -  19.3.2024

11.9.2015  -  10.9.2025

20.3.2014  -  19.3.2024

11.9.2015  -  10.9.2025

21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

20.3.2014  -  19.3.2024

11.9.2015  -  10.9.2025

150,000

29.650

11.9.2015  -  10.9.2025

150,000

29.650

11.9.2015  -  10.9.2025

9.872

8.742

29.650

6.770

9.872

8.742

29.650

6.770

9.872

8.742

29.650

9.872

8.742

23.5.2011  -  22.5.2021

21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

11.9.2015  -  10.9.2025

16.11.2009  -  15.11.2019

23.5.2011  -  22.5.2021

21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

11.9.2015  -  10.9.2025

16.11.2009  -  15.11.2019

23.5.2011  -  22.5.2021

21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

11.9.2015  -  10.9.2025

23.5.2011  -  22.5.2021

21.5.2012  -  20.5.2022

100,000

250,000

150,000

200,000

200,000

250,000

150,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

150,000

—

—

8,748,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Share option holders

Directors

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher

(retired on May 22, 2015)

Total for directors

60

Report of the DirectorsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables disclose movements in the Company’s share options during the year: (continued)

Share option holders

Employees

Total for employees

Total for all categories

Date of share

Share option

Outstanding at

options

granted

scheme

category

beginning of

the year

Granted

during

the year

24.8.2007

16.10.2007

7.11.2007

14.1.2008

17.4.2008

14.5.2008

30.5.2008

16.11.2009

28.12.2009

13.9.2010

17.1.2011

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

830,000

60,000

40,000

505,000

400,000

40,000

250,000

1,680,000

30,000

500,000

20,000

4,355,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Exercised

during

the year

(100,000)

(10,000)

—

—

(50,000)

—

—

(110,000)

—

(500,000)

—

(770,000)

13,055,000

1,668,000

(2,390,000)

Lapsed

during

the year

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Outstanding

at end of

Subscription

price

HK$

8.390

8.810

8.088

7.566

7.780

7.500

7.546

6.770

6.390

7.390

Exercise period

24.8.2007   -  23.8.2017

16.10.2007  -  15.10.2017

7.11.2007  -  6.11.2017

14.1.2008  -  13.1.2018

17.4.2008  -  16.4.2018

14.5.2008  -  13.5.2018

30.5.2008  -  29.5.2018

16.11.2009  -  15.11.2019

28.12.2009  -  27.12.2019

13.9.2010  -  12.9.2020

10.436

17.1.2011  -  16.1.2021

the year

730,000

50,000

40,000

505,000

350,000

40,000

250,000

1,570,000

30,000

—

20,000

3,585,000

12,333,000

The weighted average closing price of shares immediately before the options grant date during 2015 was HK$29.80 (2014: HK$20.40).

The closing price of the Company’s shares immediately before the date of grant was HK$29.80 in 2015 (2014: HK$20.40).

The weighted average closing prices of the Company’s shares immediately before various dates during 2015 and 2014 on which the share 
options were exercised were HK$29.83 and HK$24.59 respectively.

The fair value of the share options granted in 2015 measured at the date of grant was HK$7.39 (2014: HK$5.56) per option.

61

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management Contracts
No contracts concerning the management and administration of 
the whole or any substantial part of the business of the Group were 
entered into or existed during the year.

Equity-linked Agreements
During the year, the Group has not entered into any equity-linked 
agreements.

Arrangements to Purchase Shares or Debentures
Other than as disclosed above and for satisfying the awarded shares 
granted under the Company’s share award scheme (details of which 
are set out in this Annual Report), at no time during the year was the 
Company, or any of its subsidiaries, a party to any arrangements to 
enable the directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of 
the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any 
other body corporate and neither the directors or the chief executive, 
nor any of their spouses or children under the age of 18, had any 
right to subscribe for the securities of the Company, or had exercised 
any such right.

Director’s Interests in Transaction, Arrangement 
and Contracts of Significance
No transactions, arrangements and contracts of significance, to which 
the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, was a party and in which a 
director of the Company had a material interest, whether directly or 
indirectly, subsisted at the end of the year or at any time during the 
year.

Directors’ Indemnities
Pursuant to the Company’s Articles of Association, every director of 
the Company shall be entitled to be indemnified out of the assets 
and profits of the Company against all losses or liabilities (to the 
fullest extent permitted by the Companies Ordinance) which he/she 
may sustain or incur in or about the execution of the duties of his/
her office. The Company has arranged appropriate directors’ and 
officers’ liability insurance coverage for the directors and officers of 
the Company.

62

Report of the DirectorsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Substantial Shareholders’ Interests
As at December 31, 2015, the interests and short positions of the following persons, other than directors and chief executive of the Company, in the shares, 
underlying shares and debentures of the Company which have been disclosed to the Company pursuant to Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO have 
been recorded in the register kept by the Company pursuant to section 336 of the SFO:

Name

FIL Limited (1)
FMR LLC (2)
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (3)

Schroders Plc (4)

Total interests in
shares

(L/S/LP)*

Approximate aggregate
percentage of interests

102,405,000
165,918,725
124,082,862
1,997,100
105,777,125
146,279,125

(L)
(L)
(L)
(S)
(LP)
(L)

5.58%
9.05%
6.77%
0.11%
5.77%
7.98%

* 

(L/S/LP) represents (Long position/Short position/Lending Pool)

Notes:

(1) 

The capacity of FIL Limited in holding the 102,405,000 shares was as investment manager.

(2) 

The following is a breakdown of the interest in shares in the Company held by FMR LLC:

Name

FMR LLC

FIDELITY MANAGEMENT & RESEARCH (HONG KONG) LIMITED

FIDELITY MANAGEMENT & RESEARCH (JAPAN) LIMITED

FMR CO., INC

FMR INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (UK) LIMITED

PYRAMIS GLOBAL ADVISORS TRUST COMPANY

PYRAMIS GLOBAL ADVISORS, LLC

Remarks:

Total interests in shares

Direct

Deemed

Approximate

percentage of

Remarks

interests

(L/S/LP)

interests

(L/S/LP)

interests

(2a)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

(2b)

—

3,892,000

1,264,000

56,507,000

41,512,500

34,055,975

28,687,250

—

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

165,918,725

—

—

—

—

—

—

(L)

—

—

—

—

—

—

9.05%

0.21%

0.07%

3.08%

2.26%

1.86%

1.56%

(2a) 

The capacity of FMR LLC in holding the 165,918,725 shares of long position was as investment manager.

(2b) 

FIDELITY MANAGEMENT & RESEARCH (HONG KONG) LIMITED, FIDELITY MANAGEMENT & RESEARCH (JAPAN) LIMITED, FMR CO., INC,  

FMR INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (UK) LIMITED, PYRAMIS GLOBAL ADVISORS TRUST COMPANY and PYRAMIS GLOBAL ADVISORS, LLC were all directly 

or indirectly owned by FMR LLC and by virtue of the SFO, FMR LLC was deemed to be interested in the shares held by these subsidiaries.

63

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Substantial Shareholders’ Interests (continued)
Notes: (continued)

(3) 

The following is a breakdown of the interests in shares in the Company held by JPMorgan Chase & Co.:

Total interests in shares

Name

JPMorgan Chase & Co.

J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp

JF International Management Inc.

JF Asset Management Limited

JPMorgan Asset Management (Japan) Limited

J.P. Morgan Investment Management Inc.

J.P. Morgan Trust Company of Delaware

J.P. Morgan Whitefriars Inc.

J.P. Morgan Securities plc

Bank One International Holdings Corporation

J.P. Morgan International Inc.

J.P. Morgan Chase International Holdings

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.

JPMorgan Asset Management (UK) Limited

J.P. Morgan Capital Financing Limited

J.P. Morgan Securities LLC

J.P. Morgan Broker-Dealer Holdings Inc

J.P. Morgan Capital Holdings Limited

JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc

JPMorgan Asset Management (Asia) Inc.

J.P. Morgan Chase (UK) Holdings Limited

JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings (UK) Limited

J.P. Morgan Overseas Capital Corporation

JPMorgan Asset Management International Limited

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.

J.P. Morgan Equity Holdings, Inc.

J.P. Morgan International Finance Limited

Remarks

Direct interests

(L/S/LP)

(3a)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

(3b)

—

— 

— 

699,670

40,000

203,500

10,321,500

30,000

348,000

12,525

3,863,113

473,500

1,483,919

1,483,600

—

—

—

—

—

—

106,960,135

160,500

—

— 

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

— 

—

— 

(L)

(S)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

—

— 

—

—

—

— 

(L)

(L)

— 

—

—

—

— 

— 

—

— 

—

—

—

— 

—

—

— 

—

—

—

—

— 

—

Deemed

interests

124,082,862

1,997,100

105,777,125

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

6,830,951

3,440,700

6,830,951

3,440,700

1,483,919

1,483,600

— 

— 

1,483,919

1,483,600

699,670

40,000

699,670

40,000

1,483,919

1,483,600

11,063,500

10,555,000

1,483,919

1,483,600

160,500

5,347,032

1,957,100

160,500

6,830,951

3,440,700

12,525

6,830,951

3,440,700

Approximate

percentage of

(L/S/LP)

interests

(L)

(S)

(LP)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

—

—

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(L)

(S)

(L)

(L)

(S)

6.77%

0.11%

5.77%

0.04%

0.00%

0.01%

0.56%

0.00%

0.02%

0.00%

0.21%

0.03%

0.08%

0.08%

0.37%

0.19%

0.37%

0.19%

0.08%

0.08%

5.83%

0.01%

0.08%

0.08%

0.04%

0.00%

0.04%

0.00%

0.08%

0.08%

0.60%

0.58%

0.08%

0.08%

0.01%

0.29%

0.11%

0.01%

0.37%

0.19%

0.00%

0.37%

0.19%

64

Report of the DirectorsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Notes: (continued)

Remarks:

(3a) 

JPMorgan Chase & Co. is listed on New York Stock Exchange. The capacity of JPMorgan Chase & Co. in holding the 124,082,862 shares of long position, 

1,997,100 shares of short position and 105,777,125 shares of lending pool respectively was as controlled corporation.

(3b) 

J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp, JF International Management Inc., JF Asset Management Limited, JPMorgan Asset Management (Japan) Limited, J.P. Morgan 

Investment Management Inc., J.P. Morgan Trust Company of Delaware, J.P. Morgan Whitefriars Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities plc, Bank One International 

Holdings Corporation, J.P. Morgan International Inc., J.P. Morgan Chase International Holdings, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., JPMorgan Asset Management (UK) 

Limited, J.P. Morgan Capital Financing Limited, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Broker-Dealer Holdings Inc, J.P. Morgan Capital Holdings Limited, 

JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc, JPMorgan Asset Management (Asia) Inc., J.P. Morgan Chase (UK) Holdings Limited, JPMorgan Asset Management 

Holdings (UK) Limited, J.P. Morgan Overseas Capital Corporation, JPMorgan Asset Management International Limited, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., J.P. 

Morgan Equity Holdings, Inc. and J.P. Morgan International Finance Limited were all directly or indirectly owned by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and by virtue of the 

SFO, JPMorgan Chase & Co. was deemed to be interested in the shares held by these subsidiaries.

(4) 

The following is a breakdown of the interests in shares in the Company held by Schroders Plc:

Total interests in shares

Remarks

Direct

interests

(L/S/LP)

(4a)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

(4b)

—

—

—

—

—

10,736,500

—

13,504,378

51,949,000

—

593,247

—

326,500

69,169,500

—

—

—

—

—

(L)

—

(L)

(L)

—

(L)

—

(L)

(L)

Deemed

interests

146,279,125

146,279,125

121,118,500

121,118,500

121,118,500

—

13,504,378

—

—

919,747

—

326,500

—

—

Approximate

percentage of

(L/S/LP)

interests

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

(L)

—

(L)

—

—

(L)

—

(L)

—

—

7.98%

7.98%

6.61%

6.61%

6.61%

0.59%

0.74%

0.74%

2.83%

0.05%

0.03%

0.02%

0.02%

3.77%

Name

Schroders Plc

Schroder Administration Limited

Schroder International Holdings Limited

Schroder Holdings (Bermuda) Limited

Schroder International Holdings (Bermuda) Limited

Schroder Investment Management Limited

Schroder Investment Management North America Limited

Schroder Investment Management (Hong Kong) Limited

Schroder & Co. Limited

Schroder & Co. (Asia) Limited

Schroder Nederland Finance B.V.

Schroder & Co Bank AG

Schroder Investment Management (Singapore) Limited

Remarks:

(4a) 

Schroders Plc is listed on London Stock Exchange. The capacity of Schroders Plc in holding the 146,279,125 shares of long position was as investment 

manager.

(4b) 

Schroder Administration Limited, Schroder International Holdings Limited, Schroder Holdings (Bermuda) Limited, Schroder International Holdings (Bermuda) 

Limited, Schroder Investment Management Limited, Schroder Investment Management North America Limited, Schroder Investment Management (Hong 

Kong) Limited, Schroder & Co. Limited, Schroder & Co. (Asia) Limited, Schroder Nederland Finance B.V., Schroder & Co Bank AG and Schroder Investment 

Management (Singapore) Limited were all directly or indirectly owned by Schroders Plc and by virtue of the SFO, Schroders Plc was deemed to be interested in 

the shares held by these subsidiaries.

Save as disclosed above, no other person was interested in or had a short position in the shares, underlying shares and debentures of the 
Company which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under Divisions 2 and 3 of the Part XV of the SFO as at December 31, 2015.

65

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”)
The Company has a serious commitment to ESG matters. A report on 
TTI’s environmental, social and governance commitment can be 
found on pages 54 to 56.

Sufficiency of Public Float
The Company has maintained a sufficient public float throughout the 
year ended December 31, 2015.

Donations
During the year, the Group made charitable and other donations 
totalling US$682,000.

Auditor
A resolution will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint 
Messrs Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu as auditor of the Company.

Horst Julius Pudwill
Chairman
Hong Kong

March 15, 2016

66

Report of the DirectorsTechtronic Industries Annual Report 2015TO THE MEMBERS OF TECHTRONIC INDUSTRIES COMPANY LIMITED
創科實業有限公司
(incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability)

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Techtronic Industries Company Limited (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries 
(collectively referred to as the “Group”) set out on pages 68 to 142, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 
December 31, 2015, and the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes 
in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.

Directors’ Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in 
accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the Hong 
Kong Companies Ordinance and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit and to report our opinion solely to you, 
as a body, in accordance with section 405 of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance, and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility 
towards or accept liability to any other person for the contents of this report. We conducted our audit in accordance with Hong Kong Standards 
on Auditing issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements 
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material 
misstatement.

An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated 
financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the 
entity’s preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in 
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes 
evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as 
evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.

Opinion
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group as at December 31, 2015, 
and of its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards and have 
been properly prepared in compliance with the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance.

Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
Certified Public Accountants

Hong Kong
March 15, 2016

67

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Independent Auditor’s ReportRevenue
Cost of sales

Gross profit
Other income
Interest income
Selling, distribution and advertising expenses
Administrative expenses
Research and development costs
Finance costs

Profit before taxation
Taxation charge

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive loss:
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
  Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
  Fair value (loss) gain on foreign currency forward contracts in hedge accounting
  Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations

Other comprehensive loss for the year

Total comprehensive income for the year

Profit for the year attributable to:
  Owners of the Company
  Non-controlling interests

Total comprehensive income attributable to:
  Owners of the Company
  Non-controlling interests

Earnings per share (US cents)
  Basic

  Diluted

Notes

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

6

7
8

9

10

11

15

5,038,004
(3,240,365)

4,752,960
(3,079,883)

1,797,639
5,297
10,577
(697,598)
(577,735)
(127,788)
(23,435)

386,957
(32,814)

354,143

1,673,077
3,443
14,529
(643,817)
(564,448)
(117,992)
(39,633)

325,159
(25,680)

299,479

(2,804)

(6,867)

(30,262)
(48,484)

(81,550)

21,562
(26,624)

(11,929)

272,593

287,550

354,427
(284)

354,143

272,877
(284)

272,593

19.37

19.28

300,330
(851)

299,479

288,401
(851)

287,550

16.41

16.34

68

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive IncomeFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ASSETS
Non-current assets
  Property, plant and equipment
  Lease prepayments
  Goodwill

Intangible assets
Interests in associates

  Available-for-sale investments
  Derivative financial instruments
  Deferred tax assets

Current assets
Inventories

  Trade and other receivables
  Deposits and prepayments
  Bills receivable
  Tax recoverable
  Trade receivables from an associate
  Derivative financial instruments
  Held-for-trading investments
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Current liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Warranty provision
  Tax payable
  Derivative financial instruments
  Obligations under finance leases - due within one year
  Discounted bills with recourse
  Unsecured borrowings - due within one year
  Bank overdrafts

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Notes

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

16
17
18
19
21
22
27
41

23
24

25

26
27
28
29

30
31
32

27
33
34
37
29

538,466
32,441
553,789
520,935
6,588
495
10,544
146,064

425,366
34,706
554,137
496,082
6,515
509
11,635
86,911

1,809,322

1,615,861

1,190,331
849,488
117,400
27,277
8,080
2,681
22,415
1,116
774,608

1,056,329
819,951
85,967
31,600
6,448
4,011
39,666
1,155
690,395

2,993,396

2,735,522

1,160,494
37,440
75,193
110,353
14,028
2,153
77,629
588,341
3,837

1,135,530
46,845
65,819
57,945
11,499
2,277
72,652
552,048
2,619

2,069,468

1,947,234

923,928

788,288

2,733,250

2,404,149

69

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Consolidated Statement of Financial PositionAs at December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital and Reserves
  Share capital
  Reserves

Equity attributable to Owners of the Company
Non-controlling interests

Total equity

Non-current Liabilities
  Obligations under finance leases - due after one year
  Unsecured borrowings - due after one year
  Retirement benefit obligations
  Deferred tax liabilities

Notes

38

33
37
40
41

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

647,109
1,508,874

2,155,983
(411)

643,914
1,323,239

1,967,153
(127)

2,155,572

1,967,026

10,402
456,680
99,896
10,700

577,678

11,135
322,216
99,407
4,365

437,123

Total equity and non-current liabilities

2,733,250

2,404,149

The financial statements on pages 68 to 142 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on March 15, 2016 and are 
signed on its behalf by:

Chi Chung Chan
Group Executive Director

Stephan Horst Pudwill
Group Executive Director

70

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Consolidated Statement of Financial PositionAs at December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attributable to Owners of the Company

Employee 

share-

based 

Defined 

benefit 

obligations 

Translation 

compensation 

remeasurement 

Capital 

redemption 

reserve
US$’000

Shares held 

for share 

award 

scheme
US$’000

Share capital
US$’000

Share premium
US$’000

23,471

617,563

225

Attributable

to non-

controlling

interests

Share of 

net assets of 

subsidiaries
US$’000

4,723

(851)

—

—

—

—

Total
US$’000

1,745,436

299,479

(6,867)

21,562

(26,624)

(11,929)

Retained 

profits
US$’000

1,096,139

300,330

—

—

—

—

Total
US$’000

1,740,713

300,330

(6,867)

21,562

(26,624)

(11,929)

300,330

288,401

(851)

287,550

—

(2,486)

—

—

—

—

(32,400)

(29,458)

2,158

(2,486)

(2,441)

1,718

2,282

(1,334)

(32,400)

(29,458)

—

—

354,427

—

—

—

—

—

—

354,427

(4,627)

(30,744)

1,823

482

(48,484)

(81,550)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(3,999)

—

(127)

(284)

—

—

—

—

—

—

2,158

(2,486)

(2,441)

1,718

2,282

(1,334)

(32,400)

(33,457)

—

1,967,026

354,143

(4,627)

(30,744)

1,823

482

(48,484)

(81,550)

354,427

272,877

(284)

272,593

—

—

—

—

(44,799)

(37,726)

2,558

—

(7,626)

3,546

(44,799)

(37,726)

—

—

—

—

—

—

2,558

—

(7,626)

3,546

(44,799)

(37,726)

19,075

1,332,125

1,967,153

reserve
US$’000

379

—

—

—

(26,624)

(26,624)

(26,624)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

reserve
US$’000

2,733

—

—

—

—

—

—

(497)

—

—

1,718

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(2,441)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(2,441)

(26,245)

3,954

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

813

(7,626)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(48,484)

(48,484)

(48,484)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(637)

(813)

—

3,546

—

—

Hedging 

reserve
US$’000

(1,153)

—

—

21,562

—

21,562

21,562

—

—

—

—

—

(1,334)

—

—

—

—

—

reserve
US$’000

1,356

—

(6,867)

—

—

(6,867)

(6,867)

—

—

—

—

2,282

—

—

—

—

(3,229)

—

(4,627)

—

(30,744)

1,823

—

—

(2,804)

(2,804)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

482

—

(30,262)

(30,262)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

At January 1, 2014

Profit (loss) for the year

Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations

Fair value gain on foreign currency

forward contracts in hedge accounting

Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations

Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year

Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Shares issued at premium on exercise of options

1,408

1,247

Buy-back of shares

Shares for share award scheme

Recognition of equity-settled share-based payments

Deferred tax liability on remeasurement of 

  defined benefit obligations

Deferred tax liability on hedging reserve

Final dividend – 2013

Interim dividend - 2014

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Transfer upon abolition of par value under the new Hong Kong

  Companies Ordinance (Note)

619,035

(618,810)

(225)

At December 31, 2014

Profit (loss) for the year

Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations

Fair value loss on foreign currency forward 

  contracts in hedge accounting

Deferred tax liability on remeasurement of 

  defined benefit obligations

Deferred tax liability on hedging reserve

Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations

Other comprehensive loss for the year

Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year

643,914

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Shares issued at premium on exercise of options

3,195

Vesting of awarded shares

Shares for share award scheme

Recognition of equity-settled share-based payments

Final dividend – 2014

Interim dividend - 2015

At December 31, 2015

—

—

—

—

—

647,109

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(9,254)

(74,729)

6,050

(6,033)

(11,187)

1,604,027

2,155,983

(411)

2,155,572

Note: The Company’s shares have no par value from the commencement date of Chapter 622 of the new Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (i.e. March 3, 2014).

71

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Consolidated Statement of Changes in EquityFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

386,957

325,159

81,898
739
90,785
3,546
(1,287)
(7,858)
38
1,091
23,435
—
11,311
—
(10,577)
8,778
(2,697)
20,112

606,271
(181,617)
(89,633)
4,323
1,330
60,729
(9,405)
11,497
(4,138)
(7,626)

391,731
(23,435)
(2,802)
(42,625)
111
12,249

335,229

69,140
802
80,848
1,718
(1,256)
(9,930)
(155)
1,012
39,633
3,000
13,147
(4,308)
(14,529)
12,124
(4,857)
12,358

523,906
(180,356)
(48,587)
(5,546)
(1,421)
89,312
6,233
15,263
(13,756)
(2,441)

382,607
(39,633)
(3,330)
(28,456)
411
12,159

323,758

Operating Activities
Profit before taxation
Adjustments for:
  Amortisation/write-off of intangible assets
  Amortisation of lease prepayments
  Depreciation on property, plant and equipment
  Employee share-based expense
  Fair value gain on interest rate swap
  Fair value gain on foreign currency forward contracts
  Fair value loss (gain) on held-for-trading investments
  Fair value loss on derivative financial instruments
  Finance costs

Impairment loss on interest in associates
Impairment loss on trade receivables
Impairment reversal of property, plant and equipment
Interest income

  Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
  Reversal of impairment loss on trade receivables
  Write down of inventories

Operating cash flows before movements in working capital
Increase in inventories
Increase in trade and other receivables, deposits and prepayments
Decrease (increase) in bills receivable
Decrease (increase) in trade receivables from an associate
Increase in trade and other payables
(Decrease) increase in bills payable
Increase in warranty provision
Decrease in retirement benefit obligations
Net payment for purchase of shares for share award scheme

Cash generated from operations
Interest paid
Hong Kong Profits Tax paid
Overseas tax paid
Hong Kong Profits Tax refunded
Overseas tax refunded

Net Cash from Operating Activities

72

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Consolidated Statement of Cash FlowsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investing Activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries/a business
Additions to intangible assets
Interest received
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
(Advance to) repayment from associates

Net Cash Used in Investing Activities

Financing Activities
Increase (decrease) in discounted bills with recourse
Dividends paid
Dividend paid to non-controlling interest
New bank loans obtained
Proceeds from issue of shares
Repayment of bank loans
Repayment of obligations under finance leases
Buy-back of shares

Net Cash from (used in) Financing Activities

Net Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of the Year
Effect of Foreign Exchange Rate Changes

Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of the Year

Analysis of the Balances of Cash and Cash Equivalents
Represented by:
  Bank balances, deposits and cash
  Bank overdrafts

Note

42

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

(71,002)
(106,790)
10,577
6,161
(159,774)
(73)

(48,151)
(95,664)
14,529
16,764
(144,013)
6,251

(320,901)

(250,284)

5,569
(82,525)
—
2,404,699
2,558
(2,234,726)
(2,735)
—

92,840

107,168

687,776
(24,173)

770,771

774,608
(3,837)

770,771

(41,848)
(61,858)
(3,999)
2,531,802
2,158
(2,486,473)
(1,134)
(2,486)

(63,838)

9,636

690,260
(12,120)

687,776

690,395
(2,619)

687,776

73

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  General

The Company is a public limited company incorporated in Hong Kong and its shares are listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong 
Limited (the “Stock Exchange”). The address of the registered office and principal place of business of the Company is 29/F, Tower 2, 
Kowloon Commerce Centre, 51 Kwai Cheong Road, Kwai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong.

The principal activities of the Group are the manufacturing and trading of electrical and electronic products.

The functional currency of the Company is United States dollars.

2.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”)

In the current year, the Group has applied the following amendments to HKFRSs issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants (“HKICPA”):

Amendments to HKAS 19
Amendments to HKFRSs
Amendments to HKFRSs

Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions
Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle
Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle

The application of the amendments to HKFRSs in the current year has had no material impact on the Group’s financial performance and 
positions for the current and prior years and/or on the disclosures set out in these consolidated financial statements.

New and revised HKFRSs issued but not yet effective
The Group has not early applied the following new and revised HKFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective as at  
January 1, 2015:

HKFRS 9
HKFRS 14
HKFRS 15
Amendments to HKFRS 11
Amendments to HKAS 1
Amendments to HKAS 16 and HKAS 38
Amendments to HKFRSs
Amendments to HKAS 16 and HKAS 41
Amendments to HKAS 27
Amendments to HKFRS 10 and HKAS 28

Amendments to HKFRS 10, 
  HKFRS 12 and HKAS 28

Financial Instruments1
Regulatory Deferral Accounts2
Revenue from Contracts with Customers1
Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations3
Disclosure Initiative3
Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation3
Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2012 - 2014 Cycle3
Agriculture: Bearer Plants3
Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements3
Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or 
  Joint Venture4
Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception3

1 

2 

3 

4 

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018.

Effective for first annual HKFRS financial statements beginning on or after January 1, 2016.

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2016.

Effective for annual periods beginning on or a date to be determined.

Other than described below, the directors of the Company consider the application of the new and revised HKFRSs would not have any 
material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

74

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Application of New and Revised Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) (continued)

HKFRS 9 Financial Instruments
HKFRS 9 issued in 2009 introduces new requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets. HKFRS 9 amended in 
2010 includes the requirements for the classification and measurement of financial liabilities and for derecognition, and further amended 
in 2013 to include the new requirements for hedge accounting. Another revised version of HKFRS 9 was issued in 2014 mainly to include 
a) impairment requirements for financial assets and b) limited amendments to the classification and measurement requirements by 
introducing a ‘fair value through other comprehensive income’ (FVTOCI) measurement category for certain simple debt instruments.

Key requirements of HKFRS 9 are described as follows:

• 

• 

• 

• 

All recognised financial assets that are within the scope of HKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost or fair value. Specifically, debt investments that are held within a business model whose 
objective is to collect the contractual cash flows, and that have contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and 
interest on the principal outstanding are generally measured at amortised cost at the end of subsequent accounting periods. Debt 
instruments that are held within a business model whose objective is achieved both by collecting contractual cash flows and selling 
financial assets, and that have contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, are measured at FVTOCI. All other debt investments and 
equity investments are measured at their fair value at the end of subsequent accounting periods. In addition, under HKFRS 9, 
entities may make an irrevocable election to present subsequent changes in the fair value of an equity investment (that is not held 
for trading) in other comprehensive income, with only dividend income generally recognised in profit or loss.

With regard to the measurement of financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss, HKFRS 9 requires that the 
amount of change in the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability is presented 
in other comprehensive income, unless the recognition of the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk in other comprehensive 
income would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss. Changes in fair value of financial liabilities attributable to 
changes in the financial liabilities’ credit risk are not subsequently reclassified to profit or loss. Under HKAS 39, the entire amount of 
the change in the fair value of the financial liability designated as fair value through profit or loss was presented in profit or loss.

In relation to the impairment of financial assets, HKFRS 9 requires an expected credit loss model, as opposed to an incurred credit 
loss model under HKAS 39. The expected credit loss model requires an entity to account for expected credit losses and changes in 
those expected credit losses at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition. In other words, it is no 
longer necessary for a credit event to have occurred before credit losses are recognised.

The new general hedge accounting requirements retain the three types of hedge accounting. However, greater flexibility has been 
introduced to the types of transactions eligible for hedge accounting, specifically broadening the types of instruments that qualify for 
hedging instruments and the types of risk components of non-financial items that are eligible for hedge accounting. In addition, the 
effectiveness test has been overhauled and replaced with the principle of an ‘economic relationship’. Retrospective assessment of 
hedge effectiveness is also no longer required. Enhanced disclosure requirements about an entity’s risk management activities have 
also been introduced.

The directors anticipate that the adoption of HKFRS 9 in the future may have an impact on amounts reported in respect of the Group’s 
financial assets and financial liabilities. However, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of that effect until a detailed review 
has been completed.

75

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with HKFRSs issued by the HKICPA. In addition, the 
consolidated financial statements include applicable disclosures required by the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock 
Exchange (the “Listing Rules”) and by the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (“CO”).

The provisions of the new Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (Cap 622) regarding preparation of accounts and directors’ reports and audits 
became effective for the Company for the financial year ended December 31, 2015. Further, the disclosure requirements set out in the 
Listing Rules regarding annual accounts have been amended with reference to the new CO and to streamline with HKFRSs. Accordingly 
the presentation and disclosure of information in the consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended December 31, 2015 
have been changed to comply with these new requirements. Comparative information in respect of the financial year ended December 31,  
2014 are presented or disclosed in the consolidated financial statements based on the new requirements. Information previously required 
to be disclosed under the predecessor CO or Listing Rules but not under the new CO or amended Listing Rules are not disclosed in these 
consolidated financial statements.

The Company has delivered the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 to the Registrar of Companies as required by 
section 662(3) of, and Part 3 of Schedule 6 to, the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) and will deliver the financial statements for the year 
ended December 31, 2015 in due course.

The Company’s auditor has reported on the financial statements of the Group for both years. The auditor’s reports were unqualified; did 
not include a reference to any matters to which the auditor drew attention by way of emphasis without qualifying its reports; and did not 
contain a statement under sections 406(2), 407(2) or (3) of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622).

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments, which are 
measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period, as explained in the accounting policies set out below.

Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods.

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation 
technique. In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability 
if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Fair 
value for measurement and/or disclosure purposes in these consolidated financial statements is determined on such a basis, except for 
share-based payment transactions that are within the scope of HKFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the scope of HKAS 17, and 
measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realisable value in HKAS 2 or value in use in 
HKAS 36.

In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which 
the inputs to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, 
which are described as follows:

• 

• 

Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the 
measurement date;

Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly or indirectly; and

• 

Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.

The principal accounting policies are set out below.

Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company and its 
subsidiaries. Control is achieved when the Company:

has the power over the investee;

is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and

has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.

• 

• 

• 

76

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Basis of Consolidation (continued)
The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of 
the three elements of control listed above.

Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the 
subsidiary. Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated 
statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income from the date the Group gains control until the date when the Group ceases to 
control the subsidiary.

Profit or loss and each item of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling 
interests. Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests even 
if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.

When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the 
Group’s accounting policies.

All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are 
eliminated in full on consolidation.

Allocation of Total Comprehensive Income to Non-Controlling Interests
Total comprehensive income and expense of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests 
even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance (effective from January 1, 2010 onwards).

Changes in the Group’s Ownership Interests in Existing Subsidiaries
Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing control over the subsidiaries are 
accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of the Group’s interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect 
the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are 
adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of the Company.

When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss and is calculated as the difference between (i) 
the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and (ii) the previous carrying amount 
of the assets (including goodwill), and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests. All amounts previously recognised in 
other comprehensive income in relation to that subsidiary are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or 
liabilities of the subsidiary (i.e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred to another category of equity as specified/permitted by applicable 
HKFRSs). The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value 
on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under HKAS 39, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an 
associate or a joint venture.

Business Combinations
Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in a business combination is 
measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities 
incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for control of the 
acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are generally recognised in profit or loss as incurred.

At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, 
except that:

• 

• 

• 

deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in 
accordance with HKAS 12 “Income Taxes” and HKAS 19 “Employee Benefits” respectively;

liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree or share based payment arrangements 
of the Group entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in accordance with HKFRS 
2 “Share-based Payment” at the acquisition date (see the accounting policy below); and

assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with HKFRS 5 “Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations” are measured in accordance with that standard.

77

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Business Combinations (continued)
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the 
acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any) over the net of the acquisition-date 
amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. If, after re-assessment, the net of the acquisition-date amounts 
of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-
controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held interest in the acquiree (if any), the excess is 
recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.

Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets 
in the event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the 
recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on a transaction-by-transaction 
basis. Other types of non-controlling interests are measured at their fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified in another 
standard.

Where the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent 
consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and considered as part of the 
consideration transferred in a business combination. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement 
period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with the corresponding adjustments made against goodwill. Measurement period 
adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the “measurement period” (which cannot exceed one 
year from the acquisition date) about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.

The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period 
adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not 
remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration that 
is classified as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with HKAS 39, or HKAS 37 “Provisions, 
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”, as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognised in profit or loss.

Goodwill
Goodwill arising on an acquisition of a business is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, if any, and is presented 
separately in the consolidated statement of financial position.

For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units (or groups of cash generating 
units) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.

A cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently whenever there is 
indication that the unit may be impaired. For goodwill arising on an acquisition in a reporting period, the cash generating unit to which 
goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment before the end of that reporting period.

If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the cash generating unit, the impairment loss 
is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on 
the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised directly in profit or loss in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.

On disposal of the relevant cash generating unit, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the amount of 
profit or loss on disposal.

Interests in Associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial 
and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.

The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these consolidated financial statements using the equity method of 
accounting. Under the equity method, investments in associates are initially recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position 
at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Group’s share of profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the associates. When 
the Group’s share of profit or loss of an associate exceeds the Group’s interest in that associate (which includes any long-term interests 
that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the associate), the Group discontinues recognising its share of further 
losses. Additional losses are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments 
on behalf of that associate.

78

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Interests in Associates (continued)
An investment in an associate is accounted for using the equity method from the date on which the investee becomes an associate. On 
acquisition of the investment in an associate, any excess of the cost of the investment over the Group’s share of the net fair value of the 
identifiable assets and liabilities of the investee is recognised as goodwill, which is included within the carrying amount of the investment. 
Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities over the cost of the investment, after 
reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss in the period in which the investment is acquired.

The requirements of HKAS 39 are applied to determine whether it is necessary to recognise any impairment loss with respect to the 
Group’s investment in an associate. When necessary, the entire carrying amount of the investment (including goodwill) is tested for 
impairment in accordance with HKAS 36 Impairment of Assets as a single asset by comparing its recoverable amount (higher of value in 
use and fair value less costs of disposal) with its carrying amount. Any impairment loss recognised forms part of the carrying amount of 
the investment. Any reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in accordance with HKAS 36 to the extent that the recoverable amount 
of the investment subsequently increases.

The Group discontinues the use of the equity method from the date when the investment ceases to be an associate, or when the 
investment (or a portion thereof) is classified as held for sale. When the Group retains an interest in the former associate and the retained 
interest is a financial asset, the Group measures the retained interest at fair value at that date and the fair value is regarded as its fair value 
on initial recognition in accordance with HKAS 39. The difference between the carrying amount of the associate at the date the equity 
method was discontinued, and the fair value of any retained interest and any proceeds from disposing of a part interest in the associate is 
included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal of the associate. In addition, the Group accounts for all amounts previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to that associate on the same basis as would be required if that associate had 
directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. Therefore, if a gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income by 
that associate would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities, the Group reclassifies the gain or loss 
from equity to profit or loss (as a reclassification adjustment) when the equity method is discontinued.

When the Group reduces its ownership interest in an associate but the Group continues to use the equity method, the Group reclassifies 
to profit or loss the proportion of the gain or loss that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive income relating to that 
reduction in ownership interest if that gain or loss would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities.

When a group entity transacts with an associate of the Group (such as a sale or contribution of assets), profits and losses resulting from 
the transactions with the associate are recognised in the Group’s consolidated financial statements only to the extent of interests in the 
associate that are not related to the Group.

Intangible Assets

Intangible Assets Acquired Separately

Intangible assets acquired separately and with finite useful lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated 
impairment losses. Amortisation of intangible assets with finite useful lives is provided on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful 
lives. The estimated useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in 
estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis. Alternatively, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives that are acquired separately 
are carried at cost less any subsequent accumulated impairment losses (see the accounting policy in respect of impairment losses on 
tangible and intangible assets below).

An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from use or disposal. Gains or losses 
arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured at the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and are recognised in profit or loss in the period when the asset is derecognised.

79

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Intangible Assets (continued)

Intangible Assets Acquired in a Business Combination

Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised separately from goodwill and are initially measured at their fair value 
at the acquisition date. The cost of such intangible assets is their fair value at the acquisition date.

Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets with finite useful lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any 
accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of intangible assets with finite useful lives is provided on a straight-line basis over their 
estimated useful lives.

Alternatively, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are carried at cost less any subsequent accumulated impairment losses (see the 
accounting policy in respect of impairment losses on tangible and intangible assets below).

Research and Development Expenditure

Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.

An internally-generated intangible asset arising from development (or from the development phase of an internal project) is recognised 
only if all of the following have been demonstrated:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale;

the intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it;

the ability to use or sell the intangible asset;

how the intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits;

the availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the intangible 
asset; and

• 

the ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development.

The amount initially recognised for an internally-generated intangible asset is the sum of the expenditure incurred from the date when 
the intangible asset first meets the recognition criteria. Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development 
expenditure is charged to profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred.

Subsequent to initial recognition, an internally-generated intangible asset is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets acquired separately.

Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.

The Group as Lessee
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the 
present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the consolidation statement of 
financial position as a finance lease obligation.

Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and a reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of 
interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance expenses are recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless they are directly 
attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Group’s policy on borrowing costs (see the 
accounting policy below).

Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.

In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability. The aggregate 
benefits of incentives are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis.

80

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Leasehold Land and Building
When a lease includes both land and building elements, the Group assesses the classification of each element as a finance or an operating 
lease separately based on the assessment as to whether substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of each element 
have been transferred to the Group, unless it is clear that both elements are operating leases in which case the entire lease is classified as 
an operating lease. Specifically, the minimum lease payments (including any lump-sum upfront payments) are allocated between the land 
and the building elements in proportion to the relative fair values of the leasehold interests in the land element and building element of the 
lease at the inception of the lease.

To the extent the allocation of the lease payments can be made reliably, interest in leasehold land that is accounted for as an operating 
lease is presented as “lease payments” in the consolidated statement of financial position and is amortised over the lease term on a 
straight-line basis. When the lease payments cannot be allocated reliably between the land and building elements, the entire lease is 
generally classified as a finance lease and accounted for as property, plant and equipment, unless it is clear that both elements are 
operating leases, in which case the entire lease is classified as an operating lease.

Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment including buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for administrative 
purposes, other than construction in progress, are stated in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost less subsequent 
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.

Freehold land is not depreciated.

Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of items of property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land and construction in 
progress, over their estimated useful lives and after taking into account of their estimated residual value, using the straight-line method. 
The estimated useful lives, residual values and defined depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period with the 
effect of any changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.

Construction in progress includes property, plant and equipment in the course of construction for production or for its own use purposes. 
Construction in progress is carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss. Cost includes professional fees capitalised in accordance 
with the Group’s accounting policy. Construction in progress is classified to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment 
when completed and ready for its intended use. Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property, plant and equipment, 
commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.

Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, 
the term of the relevant lease. However, when there is no reasonable certainty that ownership will be obtained by the end of the lease 
term, assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives.

An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from 
the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the item) is included in profit or loss in the period in which the item is derecognised.

Impairment Losses on Tangible and Intangible Assets other than Goodwill (see the Accounting Policy 
in Respect of Goodwill above)
At the end of the reporting period, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its assets to determine whether there is any indication that 
those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to 
determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any. When it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the 
Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. Where a reasonable and consistent basis 
of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash generating units, or otherwise they are allocated to the 
smallest group of cash generating units for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified.

Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually, and 
whenever there is an indication that they may be impaired.

81

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Impairment Losses on Tangible and Intangible Assets other than Goodwill (see the Accounting Policy 
in Respect of Goodwill above) (continued)
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.

If the recoverable amount of an asset (or a cash generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of 
the asset (or a cash generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.

Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or a cash generating unit is increased to the revised 
estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or a cash generating unit in prior years. A reversal of an impairment 
loss is recognised as income immediately.

Financial Instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position when a group entity becomes a 
party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.

Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition 
or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are 
added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction 
costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised 
immediately in profit or loss.

Financial Assets
The Group’s financial assets are classified into one of the three categories, including financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
(“FVTPL”), loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the 
financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition. All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised 
and derecognised on a trade date basis. Regular way purchases or sales are purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of 
assets within the time frame established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.

Effective Interest Method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over 
the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees paid or 
received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected 
life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.

Interest income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified as at FVTPL, of 
which interest income is included in net gains or losses.

Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss
Financial assets at FVTPL include financial assets held for trading.

A financial asset is classified as held for trading if:

• 

• 

it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near future; or

it is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of 
short-term profit-taking; or

• 

it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.

82

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)
Financial Assets (continued)
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (continued)
Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value arising from remeasurement recognised directly in profit 
or loss in the period in which they arise. The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss includes any dividend or interest earned on the 
financial assets.

Loans and Receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables (including trade and other receivables, bills receivable, trade receivables from 
an associate and bank balances, deposits and cash) are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any identified 
impairment losses (see accounting policy in respect of impairment of financial assets below).

Available-for-sale Financial Assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated or not classified as financial assets at FVTPL, loans and 
receivables or held-to-maturity investments.

For available-for-sale equity investments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be 
reliably measured, they are measured at cost less any identified impairment losses at the end of each reporting period (see accounting 
policy in respect of impairment of financial assets below).

Impairment of Financial Assets
Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of each reporting period. Financial 
assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of 
the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the financial assets have been affected.

For all other financial assets, objective evidence of impairment could include:

• 

• 

• 

significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty; or

default or delinquency in interest or principal payments; or

it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.

For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables and trade receivables from an associate, assets that are assessed not 
to be impaired individually are, in addition, subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis. Objective evidence of impairment 
for a portfolio of receivables could include the Group’s past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed 
payments in the portfolio past the average credit period of 30 to 120 days, or observable changes in national or local economic conditions 
that correlate with default on receivables.

For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment loss recognised is the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate.

For financial assets carried at cost, the amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount 
and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset. Such 
impairment loss will not be reversed in subsequent periods.

The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade 
receivables and trade receivables from an associate, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. 
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss. When a trade receivable is considered 
uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to profit 
or loss.

83

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)
Financial Assets (continued)
Impairment of Financial Assets (continued)
When an available-for-sale financial asset is considered to be impaired, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss in the period in which the impairment takes place.

For financial assets measured at amortised cost, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of an impairment loss decreases and the decrease 
can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is 
reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed 
what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.

Impairment losses on available-for-sale equity investments will not be reversed through profit or loss in subsequent periods. Any increase 
in fair value subsequent to impairment loss is recognised directly in other comprehensive income.

Financial Liabilities and Equity

Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by a group entity are classified either as financial liabilities or as equity in accordance 
with the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.

Equity Instrument
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity 
instruments issued by the Group are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.

Buy-back of the Company’s own equity instruments is recognised and deducted directly in equity. No gain or loss is recognised in profit or 
loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s own equity instruments.

Effective Interest Method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the 
relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees and points 
paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the 
expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.

Interest expense is recognised on an effective interest basis.

Other Financial Liabilities
Other financial liabilities (including unsecured borrowings, trade and other payables, bills payable, discounted bills with recourse and bank 
overdrafts) are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.

Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging

Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date when a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to 
their fair value at the end of the reporting period. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative 
is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of 
the hedge relationship.

Hedge Accounting

The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions for foreign currency exposure (cash flow 
hedges).

At the inception of the hedging relationship the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, 
along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of 
the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly 
effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.

84

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Financial Instruments (continued)

Cash Flow Hedges

The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated in hedging reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately 
in profit or loss.

Financial Guarantee Contracts

A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs 
because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument. A 
financial guarantee contract issued by the Group and not designated as at fair value through profit or loss is recognised initially at its fair 
value less transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial guarantee contract. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
the Group measures the financial guarantee contract at the higher of: (i) the amount of obligation under the contract, as determined in 
accordance with HKAS 37 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”; and (ii) the amount initially recognised less, when 
appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with the revenue recognition policy.

Derecognition

The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers 
the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers 
nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group continues to 
recognise the asset to the extent of its continuing involvement and recognises an associated liability. If the Group retains substantially 
all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also 
recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.

On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the sum of the consideration 
received and receivable and the cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in 
equity is recognised in profit or loss.

Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation specified in the relevant contract is discharged, cancelled or expires. The 
difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised and the consideration paid is recognised in profit or loss.

Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be 
required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are measured at the best 
estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and 
uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its 
carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows (where the effect of the time value of money is material).

A provision for warranties is recognised at the time the products are sold based on the estimated cost using historical data for the level of 
repairs and replacements.

For a provision in relation to employee termination benefits, the liability and expenses are recognised when the Group committed to 
terminate the employment of an employee or group of employees before their normal retirement date or provide termination benefits as a 
result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.

85

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost of inventories is calculated using the first-in, first-out method. Net 
realisable value represents the estimated selling price for inventories less all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make 
the sales.

Revenue Recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods sold by the 
Group to outside customers in the normal course of business, less returns and allowances, and commission income and royalty income 
received.

Revenue from sales of goods is recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.

Commission income is recognised when services are provided.

Royalty income is recognised on a time proportion basis in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreements.

Interest income from a financial asset is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount 
of income can be measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the 
effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that discounts the estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the 
financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount on initial recognition.

Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ right to receive payment have been established.

Taxation
Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.

The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the 
consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable 
or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is 
calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.

Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for 
all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it 
is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities 
are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a 
business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.

Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except 
where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such investments and interests 
are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the benefits of the 
temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of the reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.

86

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Taxation (continued)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or 
the asset is realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.

The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the 
Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is 
recognised in profit or loss, except when it relates to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in 
which case the deferred tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.

Current and deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss, except when it relates to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income 
or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity 
respectively. Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in 
the accounting for the business combination.

Foreign Currencies
In preparing the financial statements of each individual group entity, transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of 
that entity (foreign currencies) are recorded in its respective functional currency (i.e. the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which the entity operates) at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting period, 
monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates at that date. Non-monetary items that are 
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.

Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are recognised in profit 
or loss in the period in which they arise, except for exchange differences arising on a monetary item that form part of the Company’s 
net investment in a foreign operation, in which case, such exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated in equity and will be reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.

For the purposes of presenting the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are 
translated into the presentation currency of the Group (i.e. United States dollars) at the rate of exchange prevailing at the end of each 
reporting period, and their income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates for the year. Exchange differences arising, 
if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity under the heading of translation reserve (attributed to 
non-controlling interests as appropriate).

On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e. a disposal of the Group’s entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss 
of control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of significant influence over an associate that 
includes a foreign operation), all of the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation attributable to the owners 
of the Company are reclassified to profit or loss. In addition, in relation to a partial disposal of a subsidiary that does not result in the 
Group losing control over the subsidiary, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are reattributed to non-controlling 
interests and are not recognised in profit or loss. For all other partial disposals (i.e. partial disposals of associates that do not result in the 
Group losing significant influence), the proportionate share of the accumulated exchange differences is reclassified to profit or loss.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identifiable assets acquired arising on an acquisition of a foreign operation on or after January 
1, 2005 are treated as assets and liabilities of that foreign operation and retranslated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the end of the 
reporting date. Exchange differences arising are recognised in the translation reserve.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identifiable assets acquired arising on acquisitions of foreign operations before January 1, 2005 
are treated as non-monetary foreign currency items of the acquirer and reported using the historical exchange rate prevailing at the date 
of the acquisition.

Borrowing Costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily 
take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets until such time as the 
assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings 
pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.

All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.

87

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Equity-Settled Share-Based Payment Transactions
The fair value of services received determined by reference to the fair value of share options granted at the grant date is expensed on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity (employee share-based compensation reserve).

At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to ultimately vest. The 
impact of the revision of the original estimates during the vesting period, such that the cumulative expenses reflecting the revised estimate, 
is recognised in profit or loss, with a corresponding adjustment to employee share-based compensation reserve.

At the time when the share options are exercised, the amount previously recognised in employee share-based compensation reserve will 
be transferred to share capital (share premium before March 3, 2014). When the share options are forfeited or are still not exercised at the 
expiry date, the amount previously recognised in the employee share-based compensation reserve will be transferred to retained profits.

The fair value of services received determined by reference to the fair value of shares awarded at the grant date is expensed on a straight-
line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity (employee share-based compensation reserve).

When trustee purchases the Company’s shares from the open market, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable 
incremental costs, is presented as shares held for share award scheme and deducted from total equity. No gain or loss is recognised on 
the transactions of the Company’s own shares.

When the trustee transfers the Company’s shares to grantees upon vesting, the related costs of the granted shares vested are reversed 
from shares held under share award scheme. Accordingly, the related expense of the granted shares vested is reversed from employee 
share-based compensation reserve. The difference arising from such transfer is debited/credited to retained profits. At the end of the 
reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of shares that are expected to ultimately vest. The impact of the revision of 
the estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss with a corresponding adjustment to the employee share-based compensation reserve.

Retirement Benefit Schemes
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes and the Mandatory Provident Fund Scheme are charged as expenses when 
employees have rendered service entitling them to the contributions.

For defined benefit retirement benefits plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with 
actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each annual reporting period. Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, 
the effect of the changes to the asset ceiling (if applicable) and the return on plan assets (excluding interest), is reflected immediately in 
the statement of financial position with a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. 
Remeasurement recognised in other comprehensive income is reflected immediately in reserves and will not be reclassified to profit or 
loss. Past service cost is recognised in profit or loss in the period of a plan amendment. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount 
rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset. Defined benefit costs are categorised as follows:

• 

• 

• 

service cost (including current service cost, past service cost, as well as gains and losses on curtailments and settlements);

net interest expense or income; and

remeasurement.

The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the actual deficit or surplus 
in the Group’s defined benefit plans. Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits 
available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.

Government Grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them 
and that the grants will be received. Government grants are recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis over the periods in which the 
Group recognised as expenses the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate.

88

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Key Sources of Accounting Estimates

In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 3, the directors are required to make estimates and 
assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and 
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the 
revision affects both current and future periods.

Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty
The following are key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.

Estimated Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Useful Lives
Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use 
of the cash generating units to which goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives have been allocated. The value in use 
calculation requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash generating unit and a suitable discount 
rate in order to calculate the present value. As at December 31, 2015, the carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite 
useful lives are approximately US$553,789,000 (2014: US$554,137,000) and approximately US$219,434,000 (2014: US$219,934,000) 
respectively. Details of the recoverable amount calculation are disclosed in Note 20.

Useful Lives and Estimated Impairment of Deferred Development Costs
As at December 31, 2015, the carrying amounts of deferred development costs of the Group are US$268,109,000 (2014: 
US$238,286,000). The estimation of their useful lives impacts the level of annual amortisation recorded. The estimation of their useful 
lives reflects the directors’ best estimate of the periods that future economic benefits will be received through the use of the assets. In 
determining whether the deferred development costs are impaired, the management takes into consideration the anticipated revenues and 
estimated future cash flows from the underlying projects, and the progress of these projects. When the actual revenues and future cash 
flows are less than expected, a material loss may arise. Management is confident that the carrying amount of the assets will be recovered 
in full. This situation will be closely monitored, and adjustments will be made in future periods, if future market activity indicates that such 
adjustments are appropriate.

Useful Lives and Impairment Assessment of Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and identified impairment losses. As at December 31, 
2015, the Group’s carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is US$538,466,000 (2014: US$425,366,000). The estimation of 
their useful lives impacts the level of annual depreciation expense recorded. The estimated useful life that the Group places the equipment 
into production reflects the directors’ estimate of the periods that the Group intend to derive future economic benefits from the use of the 
Group’s property, plant and equipment. Property, plant and equipment are evaluated for possible impairment on a specific asset basis or 
in groups of similar assets, as applicable. This process requires management’s estimate of future cash flows generated by each asset or 
group of assets. For any instance where this evaluation process indicates impairment, the appropriate assets’ carrying values are written 
down to the recoverable amount and the amount of the write-down is charged against the results of operations.

Income Taxes
As at December 31, 2015, a deferred tax asset of approximately US$107,846,000 (2014: US$47,119,000) in relation to unused tax losses 
and approximately US$43,661,000 (2014: US$38,241,000) in relation to employee related provisions has been recognised in the Group’s 
consolidated statement of financial position. The realisability of the deferred tax asset mainly depends on whether sufficient taxable profits, 
or taxable temporary differences, will be available in the future. In cases where the actual future taxable profits generated are less than 
expected, a material reversal of the deferred tax assets may arise, which would be recognised in profit or loss for the period in which such 
a reversal takes place. During the year, deferred tax assets of approximately US$8,403,000 (2014: US$789,000) in relation to unused tax 
losses were utilised.

89

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Key Sources of Accounting Estimates (continued)

Estimated Impairment of Trade and Other Receivables, Bills Receivable and Trade Receivables from an 
Associate
When there is objective evidence of an impairment loss, the Group takes into consideration the estimation of future cash flows. The 
amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated 
future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest 
rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). When the actual future cash flows are less than expected, a material 
impairment loss may arise. As at December 31, 2015, the Group’s carrying amount of trade and other receivables, bills receivable and 
trade receivables from an associate is US$886,034,000 (net of allowance for doubtful debts of US$23,705,000) (2014: US$862,077,000 
(net of allowance for doubtful debts of US$22,522,000)).

5.  Segment Information

Information reported to the executive directors of the Company, being the chief operating decision makers, for the purposes of resources 
allocation and assessment of segment performance focuses on the types of goods sold.

The principal categories of goods supplied are “Power Equipment” and “Floor Care and Appliances”. The Group’s operating segments 
under HKFRS 8 are as follows:

1. 

2. 

Power Equipment – sales of power tools, power tool accessories, outdoor products, and outdoor product accessories for consumer, 
trade, professional and industrial users. The products are available under the MILWAUKEE, EMPIRE, AEG, RYOBI and HOMELITE 
brands plus original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) customers.

Floor Care and Appliances – sales of floor care products and floor care accessories under the HOOVER, DIRT DEVIL, VAX and 
ORECK brands plus OEM customers.

Information regarding the above segments is reported below.

Segment Revenue and Results
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenue and results by reportable and operating segments for the year:

For the year ended December 31, 2015

Segment revenue
  External sales

Inter-segment sales

Total segment revenue

Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates.

Result
  Segment results
Interest income

  Finance costs

  Profit before taxation
  Taxation charge

  Profit for the year

Power
Equipment
US$’000

Floor Care and
Appliances
US$’000

Eliminations
US$’000

Consolidated
US$’000

3,972,081
17

1,065,923
1,009

—
(1,026)

5,038,004
—

3,972,098

1,066,932

(1,026)

5,038,004

379,302

20,513

—

399,815
10,577
(23,435)

386,957
(32,814)

354,143

The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in Note 3. Segment results 
represent the profit earned by each segment without the allocation of interest income and finance costs. This is the measure reported to 
the executive directors of the Company for the purpose of resources allocation and performance assessment.

No analysis of the Group’s assets and liabilities by operating segment is disclosed as they are not regularly provided to the chief operating 
decision makers for review.

90

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
5.  Segment Information (continued)
Other Segment Information

For the year ended December 31, 2015

Amounts included in the measure of segment results:

Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Write down of inventories
Impairment loss on trade receivables
Depreciation and amortisation

Segment Revenue and Results
For the year ended December 31, 2014

Segment revenue
  External sales

Inter-segment sales

Total segment revenue

Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates.

Result
  Segment results
Interest income

  Finance costs

  Profit before taxation
  Taxation charge

  Profit for the year

Other Segment Information
For the year ended December 31, 2014
Amounts included in the measure of segment results:

Loss (gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Impairment reversal of property, plant and equipment
Write down of inventories
Impairment loss on trade receivables
Depreciation and amortisation

Power
Equipment
US$’000

Floor Care and
Appliances
US$’000

6,690
13,169
6,530
121,281

2,088
6,943
4,781
48,665

Consolidated
US$’000

8,778
20,112
11,311
169,946

Power
Equipment
US$’000

Floor Care and
Appliances
US$’000

Eliminations
US$’000

Consolidated
US$’000

3,552,790
—

1,200,170
923

3,552,790

1,201,093

—
(923)

(923)

4,752,960
—

4,752,960

292,336

57,927

—

350,263
14,529
(39,633)

325,159
(25,680)

299,479

Power
Equipment
US$’000

Floor Care and
Appliances
US$’000

Consolidated
US$’000

13,100
—
9,455
6,736
105,618

(976)
(4,308)
2,903
6,411
42,834

12,124
(4,308)
12,358
13,147
148,452

91

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Segment Information (continued)
Revenue from Major Products
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenue from its major products:

Power Equipment
Floor Care and Appliances

Total

2015
US$’000

3,972,081
1,065,923

2014
US$’000

3,552,790
1,200,170

5,038,004

4,752,960

Geographical Information
The Group’s revenue from external customers by geographical location, determined based on the location of the customer and information 
about its non-current assets by geographical location, determined based on the location of the group entity owning the assets are detailed 
below:

North America
Europe
Other countries

Total

Revenue from external customers

Non-Current Assets*

2015
US$’000

3,772,235
861,029
404,740

2014
US$’000

3,393,493
968,544
390,923

2015
US$’000

869,789
110,888
664,954

2014
US$’000

840,251
111,294
558,746

5,038,004

4,752,960

1,645,631

1,510,291

* 

Non-current assets exclude financial instruments, deferred tax assets and interests in associates.

Information about Major Customer
During the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Group’s largest customer contributed total revenue of US$2,148,906,000 
(2014: US$1,779,833,000), of which US$2,067,735,000 (2014: US$1,717,950,000) was under the Power Equipment segment and 
US$81,171,000 (2014: US$61,883,000) was under the Floor Care and Appliances segment. There is no other customer contributing 
more than 10% of total revenue.

6.  Revenue

Revenue represents the fair value of the net amounts received and receivable for goods sold by the Group to outside customers, less 
returns and allowances, and commission and royalty income received during the year and is analysed as follows:

Sales of goods
Commission and royalty income

7.  Other Income

2015
US$’000

5,030,375
7,629

2014
US$’000

4,743,262
9,698

5,038,004

4,752,960

Other income in both 2015 and 2014 mainly comprises of sales of scrap materials and claims and reimbursements from customers and 
vendors.

8. 

Interest Income
Interest income represents interest earned on bank deposits.

92

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.  Finance Costs

Interest on:
  Bank borrowings and overdrafts
  Obligations under finance leases
  Fixed interest rate notes

10. Taxation Charge

Current tax:
  Hong Kong Profits Tax
  Underprovision in prior years

  Overseas taxation
  Underprovision in prior years

Deferred tax (Note 41):
  Current year

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

20,843
845
1,747

23,435

31,870
325
7,438

39,633

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

(1,370)
(719)

(2,089)

(33,601)
(48,120)

(81,721)

(1,971)
(1,514)

(3,485)

4,204
(36,209)

(32,005)

50,996

9,810

(32,814)

(25,680)

Hong Kong Profits Tax is calculated at 16.5% of the estimated assessable profit for both years.

Taxation arising in other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.

Underprovision of income tax in prior periods includes provisions for estimated tax exposures in respect of ongoing tax audits. Given the 
tax provided, no provision for additional income tax, if any, arising from the ongoing tax audits has been recognised as such amounts 
cannot be reliably estimated at this stage.

The tax charges for the year are reconciled as follows:

Profit before taxation

Tax at Hong Kong Profits Tax rate
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries
  operating in other jurisdictions
Tax effect of expenses not deductible

for tax purposes

Tax effect of income not taxable for tax purposes
Utilisation of deductible temporary
  differences previously not recognised
Tax effect of tax losses and deductible

temporary differences not recognised
Underprovision in respect of prior years
Others

Tax charge for the year

Details of deferred tax are set out in Note 41.

2015
US$’000

386,957

2015
%

2014
US$’000

325,159

2014
%

(63,848)

16.5%

(53,651)

16.5%

87,485

(22.6%)

71,088

(21.9%)

(17,729)
14,600

4.6%
(3.7%)

(16,509)
21,920

(97)

0.0%

245

(3,453)
(48,839)
(933)

(32,814)

0.9%
12.6%
0.2%

8.5%

(11,019)
(37,723)
(31)

(25,680)

5.1%
(6.7%)

(0.1%)

3.4%
11.6%
0.0%

7.9%

93

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
11. Profit for the Year

Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging (crediting):

Amortisation of intangible assets
Amortisation of lease prepayments
Auditors’ remuneration
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense
Depreciation and amortisation on property, plant and equipment
  Owned assets
  Assets held under finance leases
Fair value gain on interest rate swap
Fair value gain on foreign currency forward contracts
Fair value loss (gain) on held-for-trading investments
Fair value loss on derivative financial instruments
Impairment loss on interest in associates
Impairment loss on trade receivables
Impairment reversal of property, plant and equipment
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Net exchange loss
Operating lease expenses recognised in respect of:
  Motor vehicles
  Plant and machinery
  Premises
  Other assets
Reversal of impairment loss on trade receivables
Unconditional government grants
Write off of intangible assets
Write down of inventories
Staff costs
  Directors’ remuneration

  Fees
  Other emoluments

Other staff costs
Retirement benefits scheme contributions

(other than those included in the Directors’ emoluments)

  Defined contribution plans
  Defined benefit plans (Note 40)

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

78,422
739
3,129
3,240,365

66,802
802
3,113
3,079,883

88,385
2,400
(1,287)
(7,858)
38
1,091
—
11,311
—
8,778
2,202

17,137
5,288
31,588
2,769
(2,697)
(109)
3,476
20,112

217
33,450     

33,667 
580,593

4,373
2,589

79,822
1,026
(1,256)
(9,930)
(155)
1,012
3,000
13,147
(4,308)
12,124
4,964

16,895
5,153
31,155
2,770
(4,857)
(9)
2,338
12,358

234
30,296

30,530
542,762

3,475
3,114

621,222

579,881

Staff costs disclosed above do not include an amount of US$105,709,000 (2014: US$97,684,000) of staff costs incurred relating to 
research and development activities.

94

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12. Director’s Emoluments

The emoluments paid or payable to each of the twelve (2014: eleven) directors, disclosed pursuant to the applicable Listing Rules and CO 
were as follows:

For the year ended December 31, 2015

Other emoluments

Basic
salaries and
allowances
US$’000

Contributions
to retirement
benefits
schemes
US$’000

Fees
US$’000

Bonus paid
 US$’000

Share-based
payments
US$’000

—
—
—
—
—
39

7

39
39
39
39

15

1,671
1,583
722
719
340
5

—

18
43
46
35

18

2
180
2
2
2
—

—

—
—
—
—

—

4,575
13,500
1,439
2,547
2,080
—

—

269
106
—
—

—

1,147
1,091
381
381
381
33

—

33
33
33
33

—

Total
US$’000

7,395
16,354
2,544
3,649
2,803
77

7

359
221
118
107

33

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill (Note i)
Mr Joseph Galli Jr (Note i)
Mr Kin Wah Chan (Note i)
Mr Chi Chung Chan (Note i)
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill (Note i)
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP (Note ii)
Mr Camille Jojo (appointed on 
  October 30, 2015) (Note ii)
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

(Note iii)

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann (Note iii)
Mr Peter David Sullivan (Note iii)
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung (Note iii)
Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher (retired on 
  May 22, 2015) (Note iii)

Total

217

5,200

188

24,516

3,546

33,667

For the year ended December 31, 2014

Other emoluments

Basic
salaries and
allowances
US$’000

Contributions
to retirement
benefits
schemes
US$’000

Fees
US$’000

Bonus paid
US$’000

Share-based
payments
US$’000

Total
US$’000

6,600
15,000
4,087
2,951
1,454
44
82

64
88
92
68

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill (Note i)
Mr Joseph Galli Jr (Note i)
Mr Kin Wah Chan (Note i)
Mr Chi Chung Chan (Note i)
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill (Note i)
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP (Note ii)
Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher (Note iii)
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

(Note iii)

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann (Note iii)
Mr Peter David Sullivan (Note iii)
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung (Note iii)

—
—
—
—
—
39
39

39
39
39
39

1,657
1,574
715
712
337
5
36

18
42
46
22

Total

234

5,164

2
69
2
2
2
—
—

—
—
—
—

77

4,570
13,334
2,949
1,816
668
—
—

—
—
—
—

371
23
421
421
447
—
7

7
7
7
7

23,337

1,718

30,530

Note i:  The individuals represent the Executive Directors of the Company and the Group. The Executive Directors’ emoluments shown above were mainly for their 

services in connection with management of the affairs of the Company and the Group.

Note ii: The individuals represent the Non-executive Directors of the Company. The Non-executive Directors’ emoluments shown above were mainly for their services as 

Directors of the Company.

Note iii: The individuals represent the independent Non-executive Directors of the Company. The Independent Non-executive Directors’ emoluments shown above were 

mainly for their services as Directors of the Company.

The bonuses paid were based on past performance of the Group.

The above emoluments include the value of share options granted and shares awarded to certain directors under the Company’s share 
option schemes and share award scheme, respectively, as estimated at the date of grant and award. Details of these benefits in kind are 
disclosed under the sections “Share Options” and “Share Award Scheme” in Notes 46 and 47 respectively.

95

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
13. Employees’ Emoluments

Of the five individuals with the highest emoluments in the Group, four (2014: four) were directors of the Company whose emoluments are 
included in Note 12 above. The emoluments of the remaining one (2014: one) individual for the year ended December 31, 2015 was as 
follows:

Basic salaries and allowances
Contributions to retirement benefits schemes
Bonus paid
Other benefit
Share-based payments

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

684
79
2,820
30
—

3,613

590
72
3,180
27
—

3,869

The emoluments of this one (2014: one) highest paid individual for the year ended December 31, 2015 was within the following bands:

US$

1,000,001 to 1,500,000
1,500,001 to 2,000,000
3,500,001 to 4,000,000

No. of persons

2015

2014

—
—
1

—
—
1

During each of the two years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, no emoluments have been paid by the Group to the five highest paid 
individuals, including directors, as an inducement to join or upon joining the Group or as compensation for loss of office. No director has 
waived any emoluments during those years.

96

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14. Dividends

Dividends recognised as distributions during the year:
Final dividend paid:
  2014: HK19.00 cents (approximately US2.45 cents)

(2013: HK13.75 cents (approximately US1.77 cents)) per share

44,799

32,400

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

Interim dividend paid:
  2015: HK16.00 cents (approximately US2.06 cents)

(2014: HK12.50 cents (approximately US1.61 cents)) per share

37,726

82,525

29,458

61,858

The final dividend of HK23.25 cents (approximately US2.99 cents) per share with a total of approximately US$54,871,000 in respect of 
the year ended December 31, 2015 (2014: final dividend of HK19.00 cents (approximately US2.45 cents) per share in respect of the year 
ended December 31, 2014) has been proposed by the directors and is subject to approval by the shareholders in the Annual General 
Meeting.

15. Earnings per Share

The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to Owners of the Company is based on the following data:

Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share:
  Profit for the year attributable to Owners of the Company

Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
  Share options
  Share award

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

354,427

300,330

1,830,134,915

1,830,438,103

7,351,461
402,825

7,778,724
28,773

Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share

1,837,889,201

1,838,245,600

97

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. Property, Plant and Equipment

Land and 
buildings 
(Note) 
US$’000

Leasehold 
improvements 
US$’000

124,736
(2,694)
2,576
—
(12,183)
—
1,270

60,210
(1,479)
2,507
103
(801)
—
1,335

Office 
equipment,
furniture 
and fixtures 
US$’000

153,533
(5,581)
23,635
206
(7,753)
—
6,387

Cost
At January 1, 2014
Currency realignment
Additions
Acquisition of businesses
Disposals
Reversal of impairment
Reclassification

187,576
(5,403)
32,450
2,974
(14,462)
1,820
27,108

At December 31, 2014

113,705

61,875

170,427

232,063

Currency realignment
Additions
Acquisition of subsidiaries / a business
Disposals
Reclassification

 (2,480)
4,695
69,815
 (3,095)
4,189

(2,031)
2,113
—
(552)
1,351

(5,624)
13,024
—
(2,752)
7,513

(7,150)
23,591
—
(9,549)
17,672

Plant and 
machinery 
US$’000

Motor 
vehicles 
US$’000

Moulds 
and tooling 
US$’000

Vessels 
US$’000

Construction 
in progress 
US$’000

5,205
(226)
751
64
(349)
—
245

5,690

(253)
728
—
(665)
330

187,130
(1,624)
14,329
219
(30,870)
8,784
42,779

220,747

(2,527)
16,958
—
(33,076)
43,719

2,298
—
—
—
—
—
—

2,298

—
—
—
—
—

Total 
US$’000

803,301
(18,767)
154,408
3,566
(69,848)
10,604
—

82,613
(1,760)
78,160
—
(3,430)
—
(79,124)

76,459

883,264

(1,475)
100,543
—
(4,648)
(74,774)

(21,540)
161,652
69,815
(54,337)
—

At December 31, 2015

186,829

62,756

182,588

256,627

5,830

245,821

2,298

96,105

1,038,854

Depreciation and Impairment
At January 1, 2014
Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on disposals
Reversal of impairment

At December 31, 2014

Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on disposals

37,136
(123)
5,508
(653)
—

41,868

 (360)
6,943
 (723)

21,724
(601)
4,070
(331)
—

121,479
(3,707)
14,546
(7,081)
—

113,826
(2,197)
18,074
(11,741)
1,034

24,862

125,237

118,996

(784)
4,318
(493)

(3,690)
17,153
(2,572)

(2,651)
20,414
(8,138)

3,398
(111)
630
(180)
—

3,737

(133)
655
(605)

120,143
(898)
37,560
(20,975)
5,262

141,092

(1,279)
41,110
(26,867)

1,646
—
460
—
—

2,106

—
192
—

At December 31, 2015

47,728

27,903

136,128

128,621

3,654

154,056

2,298

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—

—

419,352
(7,637)
80,848
(40,961)
6,296

457,898

(8,897)
90,785
(39,398)

500,388

Carrying amounts
At December 31, 2015

139,101

34,853

46,460

128,006

At December 31, 2014

71,837

37,013

45,190

113,067

2,176

1,953

91,765

79,655

—

192

96,105

538,466

76,459

425,366

Note:  Buildings with a carrying amount of US$19,640,000 (2014: US$21,606,000) are erected on leasehold land that is presented as lease prepayments on the 

consolidated statement of financial position.

98

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. Property, Plant and Equipment (continued)

The above property, plant and equipment, other than construction in progress, are depreciated on a straight-line basis, at the following 
rates per annum:

Freehold land
Leasehold land
Buildings
Leasehold improvements
Office equipment, furniture and fixtures
Plant and machinery
Motor vehicles
Moulds and tooling
Vessels

Nil
Shorter of lease term or useful life
21/5% - 62/3%
21/2% - 331/3%
10% - 331/3%
9% - 331/3%
10% - 331/3%
18% - 331/3%
20% 

The carrying amounts of properties shown above comprise:

Land and buildings situated outside Hong Kong are analysed as follows:
  Freehold
  Leasehold

Land and buildings situated in Hong Kong

2015
US$’000

50,344
19,640

69,984
69,117

139,101

2014
US$’000

50,231
21,606

71,837
—

71,837

The carrying amounts of the Group’s property, plant and equipment include amounts of approximately US$11,856,000 (2014: 
US$12,711,000) in respect of assets held under finance leases.

The gross carrying amount of the Group’s property, plant and equipment includes amounts of approximately US$241,377,000 (2014: 
US$224,034,000) respectively in respect of fully depreciated property, plant and equipment that are still in use.

17. Lease Prepayments

Cost
At January 1, 2014
Currency realignment

At December 31, 2014
Currency realignment

At December 31, 2015

Amortisation
At January 1, 2014
Currency realignment
Provided for the year

At December 31, 2014

Currency realignment
Provided for the year

At December 31, 2015

Carrying amounts
At December 31, 2015

At December 31, 2014

All lease prepayments are related to leases outside Hong Kong.

US$’000

40,827
(965)

39,862
(1,778)

38,084

4,463
(109)
802

5,156

(252)
739

5,643

32,441

34,706

99

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. Goodwill

At January 1, 2014
Currency realignment
Arising on acquisition of businesses

At December 31, 2014
Currency realignment
Arising on acquisition of subsidiaries / a business (Note 42)

At December 31, 2015

Particulars regarding impairment testing of goodwill are disclosed in Note 20.

19. Intangible Assets

Deferred
development
costs
US$’000

Patents
US$’000

Trademarks
US$’000

Manufacturing
know-how
US$’000

Retailer
and service
relationships
US$’000

Non
compete
agreement
US$’000

Cost
At January 1, 2014
Currency realignment
Additions
Acquisition of businesses
Written off in the year

452,845
(242)
90,442
462
(8,055)

54,710
—
2,176
2,706
(150)

228,743
—
3,046
3,000
(5)

At December 31, 2014

535,452

59,442

234,784

Currency realignment
Additions
Written off in the year

(183)
102,767
(7,392)

—
4,023
(60)

—
—
(500)

453
—
—
—
—

453

—
—
—

6,500
—
—
4,000
—

10,500

—
—
—

10,634
—
—
—
—

10,634

—
—
—

US$’000

532,488
(2,363)
24,012

554,137
(1,772)
1,424

553,789

Total
US$’000

753,885
(242)
95,664
10,168
(8,210)

851,265

(183)
106,790
(7,952)

At December 31, 2015

630,644

63,405

234,284

453

10,500

10,634

949,920

Amortisation
At January 1, 2014
Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on write off

At December 31, 2014

Currency realignment
Provided for the year
Eliminated on write off

244,868
(192)
58,207
(5,717)

297,166

(144)
69,967
(4,454)

33,573
—
4,867
(150)

38,290

—
4,823
(22)

10,233
—
1,121
(5)

11,349

—
913
—

At December 31, 2015

362,535

43,091

12,262

Carrying amounts
At December 31, 2015

268,109

20,314

222,022

At December 31, 2014

238,286

21,152

223,435

453
—
—
—

453

—
—
—

453

—

—

1,950
—
480
—

2,430

—
592
—

3,368
—
2,127
—

5,495

—
2,127
—

294,445
(192)
66,802
(5,872)

355,183

(144)
78,422
(4,476)

3,022

7,622

428,985

7,478

8,070

3,012

5,139

520,935

496,082

100

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19. Intangible Assets (continued)

The retailer and service relationships were acquired through business combinations which related to the relationships with retailers and 
service centres.

Deferred development costs are internally generated by capitalising the costs pertaining to development of new or enhancement of existing 
products.

Included in trademarks of the Group, US$219,434,000 (2014: US$219,934,000) are trademarks with indefinite useful lives as considered 
by the management of the Group as having an indefinite useful life because they are expected to contribute indefinitely to the Group’s 
net cash inflows. The trademarks will not be amortised until their useful lives are determined to be finite. Instead they will be tested for 
impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that they may be impaired. Particulars of the impairment testing are disclosed in 
Note 20.

The above intangible assets, other than trademarks with indefinite useful lives, are amortised on a straight-line basis, at the following rates 
per annum:

Deferred development costs
Patents
Trademarks with finite useful lives
Retailer and service relationships
Non compete agreement

20% - 331/3%
10% - 25%
62/3% - 10%
5% - 62/3%
20%

20. Impairment Testing on Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Useful Lives

As explained in Note 5, the Group uses the types of goods sold for operating segment information. For the purpose of impairment testing, 
goodwill and trademarks with indefinite useful lives set out in Notes 18 and 19, the majority of the amounts have been allocated to five 
major individual cash generating units (CGUs), including four units in the Power Equipment segment and one unit in the Floor Care and 
Appliances segment. The carrying amounts of goodwill and trademarks as at December 31, 2015 allocated to these units are as follows:

Power Equipment – MET
Power Equipment – HCP
Power Equipment – Drebo
Power Equipment – Baja
Floor Care and Appliances – RAM/Hoover/VAX
Others

Goodwill

Trademarks

2015
US$’000

416,617
7,492
21,348
9,017
75,748
23,567

553,789

2014
US$’000

416,617
7,492
23,120
9,017
75,748
22,143

554,137

2015
US$’000

118,407
30,648
—
3,200
67,179
—

219,434

2014
US$’000

118,907
30,648
—
3,200
67,179
—

219,934

No impairment of goodwill and trademarks have been recognised for the year ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014.

The basis of the recoverable amounts of the above CGUs and their major underlying assumptions are summarised below:

Power Equipment - MET (“MET”)
The recoverable amount of MET’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation 
uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period and a discount rate of 11.5% 
(2014: 11.5%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for MET are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including 
sales, gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimations are based on MET’s past 
performance, management’s expectations of the market development, the success in new products launched, the success in reducing the 
working capital requirements and the success of the cost cutting strategy implemented by the Group. Cash flow projections beyond the 
5-year period are extrapolated using a steady 3.0% (2014: 3.0%) growth rate. Management believes that any reasonably possible change 
in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of MET’s goodwill and intangibles to exceed the recoverable amounts.

101

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
20. Impairment Testing on Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Useful Lives (continued)

Power Equipment – HCP (“HCP”)
The recoverable amount of HCP’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation 
uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a discount rate of 12.0% 
(2014: 12.0%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for HCP are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including 
sales, gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimations are based on HCP’s past 
performance, management’s expectations of the market development, the success in new products launched and the success of the 
cost cutting strategy implemented. Cash flow projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated without considering any growth rate. 
Management believes that any reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of HCP’s 
goodwill and intangibles to exceed the aggregate recoverable amounts.

Power Equipment – Drebo (“Drebo”)
The recoverable amount of Drebo’s goodwill has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation uses cash flow 
projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a discount rate of 11.0% (2014: 11.0%) 
per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for Drebo are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including 
sales, gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimations are based on Drebo’s 
past performance, management’s expectations of the market development, the success in new products launched and the cost cutting 
strategies implemented. Cash flow projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated using 1.0% (2014:nil) growth rate. Management 
believes that any reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of Drebo’s goodwill to 
exceed the recoverable amount.

Power Equipment – Baja (“Baja”)
The recoverable amount of Baja’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation uses 
cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a discount rate of 12.0% (2014: 
13.0%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for Baja are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows including 
sales, gross margin, operating expenses and working capital requirements. The assumptions and estimations are based on Baja’s past 
performance, management’s expectations of the market development and the success of the cost cutting strategy implemented. Cash 
flow projections beyond the 5-year period are extrapolated using a steady 2.0% (2014: 2.0%) growth rate. Management believes that any 
reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of Baja’s goodwill and intangibles to exceed 
the aggregate recoverable amounts.

Floor Care and Appliances – RAM/Hoover/VAX (“RAM/Hoover/VAX”)
The recoverable amount of RAM/Hoover/VAX’s goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That 
calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a 5-year period, and a discount rate 
of 15.0% (2014: 15.0%) per annum.

Cash flow projections during the budget period for RAM/Hoover/VAX are based on management’s estimation of cash inflows/outflows 
including sales, gross margin, operating expenses, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. The assumptions and 
estimations are based on RAM/Hoover/VAX’s past performance, management’s expectations of the market development, the success in 
reducing the working capital requirements and the success of the cost cutting strategies implemented. Cash flow projections beyond the 
5-year period are extrapolated using a steady 2.0% (2014: 2.0%) growth rate. Management believes that any reasonably possible change 
in any of these assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of RAM/Hoover/VAX’s goodwill and intangibles to exceed the aggregate 
recoverable amounts.

102

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
21. Interests in Associates

Unlisted shares, at cost less impairment loss recognised
Share of net assets
Amounts due from associates

2015
US$’000

—
—
6,588

6,588

2014
US$’000

—
—
6,515

6,515

Particulars of the associates as at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 are set out in Note 52.

The amounts due from associates are unsecured, non-interest bearing and are repayable on demand.

At the end of the reporting period, amongst the associates, the Group held 40.8% of the shares of Gimelli International (Holdings) Limited 
and its subsidiaries (together the “Gimelli Group companies”). The Group has discontinued recognising its share of the losses of the 
Gimelli Group companies. The unrecognised share of profit (loss) for the year and cumulatively, extracted from the relevant management 
accounts of the associates, are US$142,000 (2014: US$302,000) and (US$4,936,000) (2014: (US$5,078,000)) respectively.

22. Available-for-sale Investments

Unlisted equity securities and club membership debentures,
  at cost less impairment loss recognised

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

495

509

As at December 31, 2015, all available-for-sale investments represent investments in unlisted equity securities and club membership 
debentures. They are measured at cost less impairment at the reporting date because the range of reasonable fair value estimates is so 
significant that the directors of the Company are of the opinion that their fair values cannot be measured reliably.

23. Inventories

Raw materials
Work in progress
Finished goods

2015
US$’000

105,340
12,937
1,072,054

2014
US$’000

112,023
11,478
932,828

1,190,331

1,056,329

103

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24. Trade and other Receivables

Trade receivables
Less: Allowances for doubtful debts

Other receivables

2015
US$’000

851,642
(23,705)

827,937
21,551

849,488

2014
US$’000

795,492
(22,522)

772,970
46,981

819,951

The aging analysis of trade receivables, net of allowances for doubtful debts, presented on the basis of the revenue recognition date, 
which is usually the invoice date, at the end of the reporting period is as follows:

0 to 60 days
61 to 120 days
121 days or above

Total trade receivables

2015
US$’000

699,592
90,601
37,744

827,937

2014
US$’000

651,192
84,514
37,264

772,970

Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses an internal credit scoring system to assess the potential customer’s credit quality and 
defines credit limits by customer. Limits and scoring attributed to customers are reviewed regularly. Trade receivables that are neither past 
due nor impaired have the best credit scoring attributable under the internal credit scoring system used by the Group.

Included in the Group’s trade receivable balance are debtors with a carrying amount of US$111,504,000 (2014: US$115,959,000) which 
are past due at the reporting date for which the Group has not provided for impairment loss. The Group does not hold any collateral over 
these balances. The average age of these receivables is 61 days (2014: 74 days).

The Group has a policy of allowing credit periods ranging mainly from 30 days to 120 days. Trade receivables that were past due but 
not provided for impairment loss are related to a number of independent customers that have a good track record with the Group. The 
management believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of these balances as there has not been a significant change 
in credit quality of the relevant customers and the balances are still considered fully recoverable.

Ageing of Trade Receivables which are past due but not Impaired

2015
US$’000

85,554
14,128
11,607
54
161

2014
US$’000

98,008
9,568
1,497
3,621
3,265

111,504

115,959

1 - 60 days
61 - 120 days
121 - 365 days
1 - 2 years
Over 2 years

Total

104

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24. Trade and other Receivables (continued)

Movement in the Allowance for Doubtful Debts

Balance at beginning of the year
Currency realignment
Impairment losses recognised on receivables
Acquisition of businesses
Amounts written off as uncollectible
Amounts recovered during the year

Balance at end of the year

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

22,522
(1,063)
11,311
—
(6,368)
(2,697)

23,705

18,168
(1,171)
13,147
389
(3,154)
(4,857)

22,522

Included in the allowance for doubtful debts are individually impaired trade receivables amounting to US$23,705,000 (2014: 
US$22,522,000) which have the worst credit scoring attributable under the internal credit scoring system used by the Group. The Group 
does not hold any collateral over these balances.

Ageing of Impaired Trade Receivables (by Invoice Date)

0 - 120 days
121 - 365 days
1 - 2 years
Over 2 years

Total

2015
US$’000

3,195
9,035
7,879
3,596

23,705

2014
US$’000

4,024
3,284
11,379
3,835

22,522

In accordance with receivables purchase agreements, certain trade receivables were factored to banks (the “Factored Trade 
Receivables”). As the Group still retained the risks associated in respect of default payments, the Group has continued to recognise the 
Factored Trade Receivables in the consolidated statement of financial position. At the end of the reporting period, proceeds from the 
Factored Trade Receivables of approximately US$75,000,000 (2014: US$75,000,000) were recognised as liabilities and included in 
“Unsecured borrowings – due within one year” in the consolidated statement of financial position.

25. Bills Receivable

All the Group’s bills receivable at December 31, 2015 and 2014 are due within 120 days.

26. Trade Receivables from an Associate

The trade receivables from an associate were aged and are due within 120 days.

105

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27. Derivative Financial Instruments

Assets
Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment
Foreign currency forward contracts
  – under hedge accounting
Foreign currency forward contracts
  – not under hedge accounting

Liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts
  – under hedge accounting
Foreign currency forward contracts
  – not under hedge accounting
Interest rate swap

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

10,544

20,654

1,761

32,959

12,463

905
660

11,635

39,486

180

51,301

9,006

546
1,947

14,028

11,499

Acquisition Right of Certain Property, Plant and Equipment
As at December 31, 2015, the Group owned a right to acquire certain property, plant and equipment which was acquired as part of the 
acquisition of the Oreck business from the Oreck Bankruptcy Estate. The right is expected to be exercised in 2032. The fair value of the 
property, plant and equipment was US$10,544,000 valued on September 30, 2015 by Duff & Phelps, LLC., an independent valuer not 
related to the Group.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts
The fair values of foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from 
quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts under Hedge Accounting
At the end of the reporting period, the Group had the following foreign currency forward contracts designated as highly effective hedging 
instruments in order to manage the Group’s foreign currency exposure in relation to future foreign currency sales. The terms of the foreign 
exchange contracts have been negotiated to match the terms of the respective designated hedged items.

106

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27. Derivative Financial Instruments (continued)

Major terms of the foreign currency forward contracts under hedge accounting are as follows:

2015

Notional amounts in millions

Maturity

Sell AUD 267.6M, Buy US$
Sell US$ 414.2M, Buy RMB
Sell EUR 169M, Buy US$
Buy US$ 50M, Sell GBP
Buy US$ 34.6M, Sell EUR
Buy EUR 3.7M, Sell AUD
Buy US$ 17.2M, Sell AUD

2014

January 29, 2016 to December 30, 2016
January 28, 2016 to December 28, 2016
January 15, 2016 December 30 , 2016
January 11, 2016 to June 20, 2016
January 4, 2016 to October 31, 2016
January 15, 2016 to December 5, 2016
January 21, 2016 to June 6, 2016

Notional amounts in millions

Maturity

Sell US$ 493.2M, Buy RMB
Buy US$ 106M, Sell GBP
Buy US$ 57M, Sell EUR
Sell EUR 110M, Buy US$
Buy US$ 139.6M, Sell AUD

January 7, 2015 to December 30, 2015
January 5, 2015 to November 9, 2015
January 1, 2015 to October 26, 2015
January 30, 2015 to October 30, 2015
January 30, 2015 to September 30, 2015

During the year, fair value gain of US$19,075,000 (2014: loss of US$1,153,000) was reclassified from reserves to profit and loss.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts not under Hedge Accounting
Major terms of the foreign currency forward contracts not under hedge accounting are as follows:

2015

Notional amounts in millions

Maturity

Buy US$ 25M, Sell RMB
Sell US$ 25M, Buy RMB
Sell EUR 23.3M, Buy US$
Sell GBP 8M, Buy EUR
Buy GBP 3M, Sell EUR
Sell US$ 0.5M, Buy DKK
Buy US$ 2.4M, Sell EUR
Sell US$ 2M, Buy EUR
Buy US$ 26.1M, Sell NZD

2014

January 7, 2016 to April 29, 2016
January 7, 2016 to April 29, 2016
December 14, 2015 to February 29, 2016
January 21, 2016 to May 12, 2016
January 21, 2016 to May 12, 2016
April 6 ,2016
January 15, 2016 to June 15, 2016
January 25, 2016 to March 21, 2016
December 23, 2015 to December 20, 2016

Notional amounts in millions

Maturity

Sell CHF 1.2M, Buy EUR
Sell GBP 8.25M, Buy EUR
Sell US$ 3.2M, Buy EUR
Buy US$ 9.3M, Sell NZD
Buy AUD 2.4M, Sell NZD
Sell US$ 50M, Buy RMB

January 15, 2015 to June 19, 2015
January 15, 2015 to September 17, 2015
January 20, 2015 to June 15, 2015
January 21, 2015 to July 22, 2015
January 7, 2015 to October 30, 2015
January 22, 2015 to December 30, 2015

107

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27. Derivative Financial Instruments (continued)

Interest Rate Swap (not under hedge accounting)
The fair value of the interest rate swap of the Group is measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based 
on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.

Major terms of the interest rate swap are as follows:

2015

Notional amount

US$ 50,000,000

2014

Notional amount

US$ 50,000,000

Maturity

Receive floating

December 31, 2013 to May 4, 2016

LIBOR

Maturity

Receive floating

December 31, 2013 to May 4, 2016

LIBOR

Pay fixed

1.2% - 3.1%

Pay fixed

1.2% - 3.1%

28. Held-for-Trading Investments

The Group’s held-for-trading investments at December 31, 2015 and 2014 are carried at fair value using the market bid prices on the 
reporting date.

Held-for-trading investments include:

Equity securities:
– Unlisted investment funds

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

1,116

1,116

1,155

1,155

29. Bank Balances, Deposits and Cash/Bank Overdrafts

Bank balances carry interest at market rates which range from 0.03% to 0.05% (2014: 0.03% to 0.05%) per annum. Bank overdrafts 
carry interest at market rates which range from 3.25% to 5.00% (2014: 3.25% to 5.00%) per annum.

30. Trade and other Payables

The aging analysis of trade payables presented based on the invoice date at the end of the reporting period is as follows:

0 to 60 days
61 to 120 days
121 days or above

Total trade payables
Other payables

2015
US$’000

523,034
140,479
9,734

673,247
487,247

2014
US$’000

541,681
149,729
5,076

696,486
439,044

1,160,494

1,135,530

The credit period on the purchase of goods ranges from 30 days to 120 days (2014: 30 days to 120 days). The Group has financial risk 
management policies in place to ensure that all payables are settled within the credit time frame.

31. Bills Payable

All the Group’s bills payable at December 31, 2015 and 2014 are due within 120 days.

108

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32. Warranty Provision

At January 1,2014
Currency realignment
Additional provision in the year
Acquisition of businesses
Utilisation of provision

At December 31, 2014
Currency realignment
Additional provision in the year
Utilisation of provision

At December 31, 2015

US$’000

52,628
(2,371)
134,417
300
(119,155)

65,819
(2,123)
118,254
(106,757)

75,193

The warranty provision represents management’s best estimate of the Group’s outstanding liabilities on products sold, based on prior 
experience and industry averages for defective products. It is expected that the majority of this expenditure will be incurred in the next 
financial year.

33. Obligations under Finance Leases

It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its land and buildings, plant and machinery and fixtures and equipment under finance leases, 
with lease terms ranging from 4 years to 20 years. Interest rates underlying all obligations under finance leases are fixed at the respective 
contract dates ranging from 6.74% to 8.65% (December 31, 2014: 6.6% to 19.42%) per annum. No arrangements have been entered 
into that include contingent rental payments.

The maturity of obligations under finance leases is as follows:

Minimum lease payments

Present value of
minimum lease payments

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

Amounts payable under finance leases:
  Within one year

In more than one year but not more than two years
In more than two years but not more than three years
In more than three years but not more than four years
In more than four years but not more than five years

  More than five years

Less: future finance charges

Present value of lease obligations

Less: Amount due within one year shown under

  current liabilities

Amount due after one year

2,901
2,697
2,697
2,324
2,199
2,181

14,999
(2,444)

12,555

3,071
2,653
2,130
2,130
2,130
4,310

16,424
(3,012)

13,412

2,153
2,087
2,229
1,996
1,997
2,093

12,555
—

12,555

(2,153)

10,402

The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by charges over the leased assets.

2,277
2,009
1,596
1,699
1,810
4,021

13,412
—

13,412

(2,277)

11,135

109

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
34. Discounted Bills with Recourse

Bills discounted with banks at an effective interest rate of 1.43% per annum (2014: 1.43% per annum) have maturity profiles of less than 
120 days.

35. Capital Risk Management

The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return 
to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The Group’s overall strategy remains unchanged from prior years.

The capital structure of the Group consists of debt (which includes borrowings, discounted bills with recourse and obligations under 
finance leases), net of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to owners of the Company, comprising issued share capital, 
reserves and retained profits.

Gearing Ratio
The Group’s management reviews the capital structure on a semi-annual basis. As part of this review, the management considers the cost 
of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital. The Group has a target gearing ratio of not exceeding 35% determined as the 
proportion of net debt to equity. The Group will continue to execute very disciplined control and management of its working capital and 
generate free cash inflows through the growth of the business.

The gearing ratio at the year end was as follows:

Debt (i)
Bank balances, deposits and cash

Net debt
Equity (ii)
Net debt to equity ratio

2015
US$’000

1,064,042
(774,608)

289,434
2,155,983
13.42%

2014
US$’000

887,947
(690,395)

197,552
1,967,153
10.04%

(i) 

Debt comprises obligations under finance leases, discounted bills with recourse, unsecured borrowings and bank overdrafts but excludes bank advances from 

factored trade receivables as detailed in Notes 24, 29, 33, 34 and 37 respectively.

(ii) 

Equity includes all capital and reserves attributable to the owners of the Company.

In addition, based on management recommendations, the Group will balance its overall capital structure through the payment of 
dividends, new share issues and share buy-backs as well as the issue of new debt or the redemption of existing debt.

110

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36. Financial Instruments

36.1 Categories of Financial Instruments

Financial assets
Fair value through profit or loss
  Held-for-trading investments

Derivative financial instruments
  Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment
Derivative financial instruments – under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts
Derivative financial instruments – not under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts

Available-for-sale investments

Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents)
  Trade and other receivables
  Bills receivable
  Trade receivables from an associate
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments – under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts
Derivative financial instruments – not under hedge accounting
  Foreign currency forward contracts

Interest rate swap

Other financial liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Discounted bills with recourse
  Unsecured borrowings
  Bank overdrafts

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

1,116

1,155

10,544

20,654

1,761

32,959

495

849,488
27,277
2,681
774,608

11,635

39,486

180

51,301

509

819,951
31,600
4,011
690,395

1,654,054

1,545,957

12,463

905
660

9,006

546
1,947

14,028

11,499

1,160,494
37,440
77,629
1,045,021
3,837

1,135,530
46,845
72,652
874,264
2,619

2,324,421

2,131,910

111

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies

The Group’s corporate treasury function provides risk management advice to the business units, co-ordinates access to domestic 
and international financial markets, monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group through 
internal risk reports which analyse exposures by degree and magnitude of risks. These financial risks include market risk (including 
currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk.

The Group seeks to minimise the effects of these risks by using derivative financial instruments or natural hedges to mitigate these 
risk exposures. The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the board of directors, which 
provide written principles on foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, the use of financial derivatives and non-derivative 
financial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity. Compliance with policies is reviewed by the internal auditors on a 
continuous basis. The Group does not enter into or trade derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.

36.2.1  Foreign Currency Risk Management

Subsidiaries of the Group have foreign currency sales and purchases, which expose the Group to foreign currency risk. 
Approximately 21.3% (2014: 24.4%) of the Group’s sales are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency 
of the group entity making the sale, whilst almost 55.3% (2014: 48.2%) of purchases are denominated in the group entity’s 
respective functional currency.

The carrying amounts of certain significant foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the 
reporting date are as follows:

Foreign Currency
EURO

Liabilities

Assets

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

75,545

45,752

137,851

144,803

Note:  For group entities with their functional currency as the United States dollar, monetary assets and monetary liabilities denominated in Hong Kong 

dollars have no material foreign currency risk exposure as the Hong Kong dollar is pegged with the United States dollar.

The Group requires its group entities to use foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the currency exposure. The foreign 
exchange forward contracts must be in the same currency as the hedged item. On this basis, the Group has entered into 
forward contracts in relation to the foreign currency denominated monetary liabilities amounting to US$184,717,000 (2014: 
US$133,672,000). It is the Group’s policy to negotiate the terms of the hedge derivatives to match the terms of the hedged 
item to maximise hedge effectiveness (see Note 27 for details).

112

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
36. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

36.2.1  Foreign Currency Risk Management (continued)

Sensitivity Analysis
The Group is mainly exposed to the effects of rate fluctuations in the EURO to US$.

The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 5% increase and decrease in the United States dollar against the EURO 
without considering the foreign currency forward contracts entered at end of the reporting period. 5% is the sensitivity rate 
used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents management’s assessment 
of the reasonably possible change in the EURO:US$ foreign exchange rate. The sensitivity analysis includes outstanding 
foreign currency denominated monetary items and excludes the effect of any foreign currency forward contracts held at 
reporting date. A positive number below indicates an increase in profit for the year where the United States dollar weakens 5% 
against the EURO.

Impact of EURO
Profit for the year (i)

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2,966

4,561

(i) 

This is mainly attributable to the exposure outstanding on receivables and payables denominated in EURO at the reporting date.

36.2.2  Interest Rate Risk Management

The Group’s cash flow interest rate risk relates primarily to variable-rate borrowing (see Note 37 for details of these 
borrowings), discounted bills with recourse, bank overdrafts and bank balances and deposits. In relation to these floating-
rate borrowings, the Group aims at keeping certain borrowings at fixed rates. In order to achieve this result, the Group enters 
into interest rate swap contracts to hedge against part of its exposure to potential variability of cash flows arising from changes 
in floating rates (see Note 27 for details). The management continuously monitors interest rate fluctuations and will consider 
further hedging interest rate risk should the need arise.

The Group’s exposure to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management 
section of this note. The Group’s cash flow interest rate risk is mainly concentrated on the fluctuation of London Interbank 
Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) arising from the Group’s Hong Kong dollar denominated borrowings. In relation to interest bearing 
bank balances and deposits, the Group considers the interest rate risk is insignificant.

As at December 31, 2014, the Group’s fair value interest rate risk related primarily to its fixed-rate bank borrowings (see Note 
37 for details of these borrowings).

During the year, the Group obtained new bank borrowings of US$2,405 million (2014: US$2,532 million) which are either at 
LIBOR or Hong Kong best lending rates based. The proceeds were used for refinancing the Group’s borrowings.

113

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
36. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

36.2.2  Interest Rate Risk Management (continued)

Sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for non-derivative instruments. 
The analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the end of the reporting period was outstanding 
for the whole year without considering the interest rate swaps entered at the end of the reporting period. A 50 basis point 
increase or decrease in LIBOR is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and 
represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.

If interest rates had been 50 basis points higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s post-tax 
profit for the year ended December 31, 2015 would decrease/increase by US$5,156,000 (2014: decrease/increase by 
US$3,932,000). This is mainly attributable to the Group’s exposure to interest rates on its variable-rate borrowings.

The Group’s sensitivity to interest rates has increased during the current period mainly due to the increase in variable rate 
debt instruments respectively.

36.2.3  Other Price Risk

The Group is exposed to price risk through its held-for-trading investments and derivative financial instruments.

Sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to price risks of equity investments held-for-
trading measured at fair value at the reporting date.

If the prices of the respective equity instruments had been 10% higher the profit for the year ended December 31, 2015 of 
the Group would increase by US$112,000 (2014: US$116,000) as a result of the changes in fair value of held-for-trading 
investments.

36.2.4  Credit Risk Management

As at December 31, 2015, the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk which will cause a financial loss to the Group due to 
failure to discharge an obligation by the counterparties and financial guarantees provided by the Group is arising from:

• 

• 

the carrying amount of the respective recognised financial assets as stated in the statements of financial position; and

the amount of contingent liabilities in relation to financial guarantees issued by the Group as disclosed in Note 45.

In order to minimise the credit risk, the management has delegated a team responsible for determination of credit limits, 
credit approvals and other monitoring procedures to ensure that follow-up action is taken to recover overdue debts. In 
addition, the Group reviews the recoverable amount of each individual trade debt and debt investments at each reporting date 
to ensure that adequate impairment losses are made for irrecoverable amounts. In this regard, the directors of the Company 
consider that the Group’s credit risk is significantly reduced.

The credit risk on liquid funds is limited for the Group because the counterparties are banks with good reputations and credit 
ratings.

The Group’s concentration of credit risk by geographical location is mainly in North America, where 62.2% (2014: 59.0%) of 
the total trade receivables as at December 31, 2015 are located.

The Group has concentration of credit risk at 25.9% (2014: 23.3%) and 38.7% (2014: 35.6%) of the total trade receivables 
were due from the Group’s largest customer and the five largest customers respectively.

114

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 201536. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

36.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management

Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the board of directors which has built an appropriate liquidity 
risk management framework for the management of the Group’s short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity 
management requirements. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and 
reserve borrowing facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of 
financial assets and liabilities.

As at December 31, 2015, the Group has available unutilised overdrafts and short and medium term bank loan facilities of 
approximately US$103 million (2014: US$70 million) and US$1,583 million (2014: US$1,892 million) respectively.

Liquidity Tables
The following tables detail the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities as well as non-
derivative financial assets which are included in the maturity analysis. For non-derivative financial assets, the tables have 
been drawn up based on the contractual maturities of the undiscounted cash flow of the financial assets unless specified 
separately. For non-derivative financial liabilities, the tables reflect the undiscounted cash flow of financial liabilities based on 
the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay. The table includes both interest and principal cash flows. To the 
extent that the interest flows are floating rate, the undiscounted amount is derived from the interest rate curve at the end of 
the reporting period. The inclusion of information on non-derivative financial assets is necessary in order to understand the 
Group’s liquidity risk management as the liquidity is managed on a net asset and liability basis.

In addition, the following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments. The tables have 
been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual net cash (inflows) and outflows on derivative instruments that settle 
on a net basis, and the undiscounted gross (inflows) and outflows on those derivatives that require gross settlement. When 
the amount payable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the foreign currency exchange 
rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period. The liquidity analysis for the Group’s derivative financial instruments are 
prepared based on the contractual maturities as the management consider that the contractual maturities are essential for an 
understanding of the timing of the cash flows of derivatives.

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

2015
Non-derivative financial assets
  Held-for-trading investments (Note)
  Available-for-sale investments (Note)
  Trade and other receivables
  Bills receivable
  Trade receivables from an associate
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

—
—
—
—
—
0.03% - 0.05%

Non-derivative financial liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Discounted bills with recourse
  Variable rate borrowings
  Bank overdrafts
  Financial guarantee contracts

—
—
1.43%
0.51% to 2.58%
3.25% – 5.00%
—

Less than
1 month/
on demand
US$’000

1,116
492
619,098
14,967
4
749,966

1,385,643

(627,965)
(12,648)
(30,618)
(8,347)
(3,837)
(8,877)

1-3 months
US$’000

4 months-
1 year
US$’000

1-2 years
US$’000

2+ years
US$’000

Total
undiscounted
cash flows
US$’000

Total carrying
amount at
December 31,
2015
US$’000

—
3
168,996
7,349
1,362
24,657

202,367

(370,181)
(24,792)
(35,657)
(462,181)
—
—

—
—
61,394
4,961
1,315
—

67,670

(162,348)
—
(11,561)
(120,379)
—
—

—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—
—

—

1,116
495
849,488
27,277
2,681
774,623

1,116
495
849,488
27,277
2,681
774,608

1,655,680

1,655,665

—
—
—
(85,989)
—
—

—
—
—
(383,495)
—
—

(1,160,494)
(37,440)
(77,836)
(1,060,391)
(3,837)
(8,877)

(1,160,494)
(37,440)
(77,629)
(1,045,021)
(3,837)
—

(692,292)

(892,811)

(294,288)

(85,989)

(383,495)

(2,348,875)

(2,324,421)

115

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

36.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity Tables (continued)

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than
1 month/
on demand
US$’000

1-3 months
US$’000

4 months-
1 year
US$’000

1-2 years
US$’000

2+ years
US$’000

2015
Derivatives - net settlement
  Acquisition right of certain

  property, plant & equipment
Interest rate swap

—
0.00% - 0.62%

  Foreign currency forward contracts

  – AUD
  – NZD

Derivatives - gross settlement
  Foreign currency forward contracts

  – inflow
  – DKK
  – EUR
  – RMB
  – GBP
  – US$

  – outflow
  – DKK
  – EUR
  – RMB
  – GBP
  – US$

—
—

—
—
—
—
—

—
—
—
—
—

—
—

108
90

198

—
8,333
61,394
6,000
46,007

—
(388)

42
(50)

(396)

—
13,405
71,468
18,002
70,362

121,734

173,237

—
(8,178)
(62,198)
(5,664)
(43,912)

—
(13,094)
(72,734)
(17,024)
(68,500)

—
(310)

(150)
(921)

(1,381)

460
33,795
317,586
25,997
407,284

785,122

(450)
(32,936)
(325,776)
(24,545)
(395,154)

(119,952)

(171,352)

(778,861)

1,782

1,885

6,261

—
—

—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—

10,544
—

—
—

10,544

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—

Total
undiscounted
cash flows
US$’000

Total carrying
amount at
December 31,
2015
US$’000

10,544
(698)

—
(881)

8,965

460
55,533
450,448
49,999
523,653

10,544
(660)

—
(881)

9,003

460
55,533
450,448
49,999
523,653

1,080,093

1,080,093

(450)
(54,208)
(460,708)
(47,233)
(507,566)

(450)
(54,208)
(460,708)
(47,233)
(507,566)

(1,070,165)

(1,070,165)

9,928

9,928

116

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

36.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity Tables (continued)

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

—
—
—
—
—
0.03% - 0.05%

—
—
1.43%
1.11% - 3.63%
7.44%
3.25% - 5.00%
—

2014
Non-derivative financial assets
  Held-for-trading investments (Note)
  Available-for-sale investments (Note)
  Trade and other receivables
  Bills receivable
  Trade receivables from an associate
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Non-derivative financial liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Bills payable
  Discounted bills with recourse
  Variable rate borrowings
  Fixed rate borrowings
  Bank overdrafts
  Financial guarantee contracts

Less than
1 month/
on demand
US$’000

1,155
509
648,521
16,695
4,011
621,764

(611,265)
(16,563)
(72,519)
(83,186)
—
(2,619)
(8,877)

(795,029)

1,292,655

163,146

1-3 months
US$’000

4 months-
1 year
US$’000

1-2 years 
US$’000

2+ years 
US$’000

Total
undiscounted
cash flows
US$’000

Total carrying
amount at
December 31,
2014
US$’000

—
—
82,966
11,534
—
68,646

(429,548)
(30,282)
(133)
(86,396)
(99,312)
—
—

—
—
88,464
3,371
—
—

91,835

(94,717)
—
—
(290,190)
—
—
—

—
—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—
—

—

1,155
509
819,951
31,600
4,011
690,410

1,155
509
819,951
31,600
4,011
690,395

1,547,636

1,547,621

—
—
—
(104,622)
—
—
—

—
—
—
(232,523)
—
—
—

(1,135,530)
(46,845)
(72,652)
(796,917)
(99,312)
(2,619)
(8,877)

(1,135,530)
(46,845)
(72,652)
(778,565)
(95,699)
(2,619)
—

(645,671)

(384,907)

(104,622)

(232,523)

(2,162,752)

(2,131,910)

117

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.2 Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (continued)

36.2.5  Liquidity Risk Management (continued)

Liquidity Tables (continued)

Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
%

Less than
1 month/
on demand
US$’000

1-3 months
US$’000

4 months-
1 year
US$’000

1-2 years 
US$’000

2+ years 
US$’000

Total
undiscounted
cash flows
US$’000

Total carrying
amount at
December 31,
2014
US$’000

2014
Derivatives - net settlement
  Acquisition right of certain 

  property, plant & equipment
Interest rate swap

—
0.26% - 0.55%

  Foreign currency forward contracts

  – NZD

Derivatives - gross settlement
  Foreign currency forward contracts

  – inflow
  – AUD
  – EUR
  – RMB
  – GBP
  – US$

  – outflow
  – AUD
  – EUR
  – RMB
  – GBP
  – US$

—

—
—
—
—
—

—
—
—
—
—

—
—

37

37

16,149
7,585
41,359
8,992
12,356

86,441

(14,288)
(7,077)
(41,650)
(8,397)
(10,940)

(82,352)

4,089

—
(356)

9

(347)

36,615
18,353
75,839
20,989
32,235

184,031

(33,020)
(16,991)
(76,553)
(19,581)
(29,183)

(175,328)

8,703

—
(1,052)

(21)

(1,073)

86,376
47,863
366,176
76,033
101,816

678,264

(76,423)
(45,176)
(373,769)
(71,803)
(93,796)

(660,967)

17,297

—
(651)

—

(651)

11,635
—

—

11,635

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—
—
—
—
—

—

—

11,635
(2,059)

25

9,601

139,140
73,801
483,374
106,014
146,407

948,736

(123,731)
(69,244)
(491,972)
(99,781)
(133,919)

(918,647)

30,089

11,635
(1,947)

25

9,713

139,140
73,801
483,374
106,014
146,407

948,736

(123,731)
(69,244)
(491,972)
(99,781)
(133,919)

(918,647)

30,089

Note:  Maturities are based on the management’s estimation of the expected realisation of these financial assets.

The amounts included above for financial guarantee contracts are the maximum amounts the Group could be required to 
settle under the arrangement for the full guaranteed amount if that amount is claimed by the counterparty to the guarantee. 
Based on expectations at the end of the reporting period, the Group considers that it is more likely than not that no amount 
will be payable under the arrangement. However, this estimate is subject to change depending on the probability of the 
counterparty claiming under guarantee which is a function of the likelihood that the financial receivables held by the 
counterparty which are guaranteed suffer credit losses.

The amount included above for variable interest rate instruments for non-derivative financial liabilities is subject to change if 
changes in variable interest rates differ to those estimates of interest rate determined at the end of the reporting period.

118

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.3 Fair Value

The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows:

• 

• 

• 

• 

the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves 
derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the contract;

the fair value of the interest rate swap is measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based 
on the applicable yield curves derived from noted interest rate;

the fair value of financial assets with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with 
reference to quoted market bid prices; and

the fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) are determined in accordance 
with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market 
transactions.

The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities carried at amortised cost approximate their carrying amounts.

Fair Value Measurements Recognised in the Statement of Financial Position
Fair value of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities are measured on a recurring basis:

Some of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period. 
The following table gives information about how the fair values of these financial assets and financial liabilities are determined 
(in particular, the valuation technique(s) and inputs used), as well as the level of the fair value hierarchy into which the fair 
value measurements are categorised (Levels 1 to 3) based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value measurements is 
observable.

• 

• 

• 

Level 1: fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or 
liabilities;

Level 2: fair value measurements are those derived from inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are 
observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and

Level 3: fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that 
are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).

119

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 201536. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.3 Fair Value (continued)

Fair Value Measurements Recognised in the Statement of Financial Position (continued)

Relationship

of

Significant

unobservable

Financial assets/financial liabilities

Fair value

hierarchy

and key inputs

input

Fair value

Valuation techniques

unobservable

inputs to

fair value

2015

2014

1) 

Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment

Acquisition right of

Acquisition right of

Level 2

Measured at the fair value of the

N/A

N/A

  classified as derivative financial instruments in the

certain property,

certain property,

  consolidated statement of financial position

plant and

equipment:

plant and

equipment:

land and buildings associated

  with the acquisition right which

is based on a valuation by 3rd

US$10,544,000

US$11,635,000

  party independent valuer at the

  end of the financial year.

2) 

Foreign currency forward contracts classified as

Assets –

Assets –

Level 2

Quoted forward exchange rates

N/A

N/A

  derivative financial instruments in the consolidated statement

US$22,415,000;

US$39,666,000;

  matching maturities of the

  of financial position

and Liabilities – 

and Liabilities –

  contracts.

US$13,368,000

US$9,552,000

3) 

Held-for-trading non-derivative financial assets classified

Unlisted

Unlisted

Level 2

Quoted prices provided by the fund 

N/A

N/A

  as held-for-trading investments in the consolidated

investment fund:

investment fund:

  administrator based on the

  statement of financial position

US$1,116,000

US$1,155,000

 prices of stocks invested by the

investment fund.

4) 

Interest rate swaps classified as derivative financial instruments

Liabilities

Liabilities

Level 2

Measured at the present value of

N/A

N/A

in the consolidated statement of financial position

(not designated

(not designated

future cash flows estimated and

for hedging) –

for hedging) – 

  discounted based on the

US$660,000

US$1,947,000

  applicable yield curves derived

from quoted interest rates.

The directors of the Company consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised 
cost in the consolidated financial statements approximate their fair values. There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 in both 
periods.

120

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36. Financial Instruments (continued)

36.3 Fair Value (continued)

Fair Value Measurements Recognised in the Statement of Financial Position (continued)

2015
Financial assets
Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment
Foreign currency forward contracts
Held-for-trading investments

Total

Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts
Interest rate swap

Total

2014
Financial assets
Acquisition right of certain property, plant and equipment
Foreign currency forward contracts
Held-for-trading investments

Total

Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts
Interest rate swap

Total

36.4 Transfer of Financial Assets

Level 2
Total
US$’000

10,544
22,415
1,116

34,075

(13,368)
(660)

(14,028)

11,635
39,666
1,155

52,456

(9,552)
(1,947)

(11,499)

The following were the Group’s financial assets as at December 31, 2015 that were transferred to banks by discounting or factoring 
those trade and bills receivables on a full recourse basis. As the Group has not transferred all of the significant risks and rewards 
relating to these receivables, it continues to recognise the full carrying amount of the receivables and has recognised the cash 
received on the transfer as discounted bills with recourse (see Note 34) and unsecured borrowings - due within one year  
(see Note 37). These financial assets are carried at amortised cost in the Group’s consolidated statement of financial position.

The trade and bills receivable discounted with banks with full recourse at the year end was as follows:

Carrying amount of transferred assets
Carrying amount of associated liabilities

Net position

2015
US$’000

152,629
(152,629)

2014
US$’000

147,652
(147,652)

—

—

121

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37. Unsecured Borrowings

Bank advance from factored trade receivables
Bank loans

Bank borrowings
Fixed interest rate notes (Note)

Total borrowings

The borrowings of the Group are repayable as follows:

Fixed rate
Within one year
Floating rate
Within one year
In more than one year but not more than two years
In more than two years but not more than five years

Less: Amount due within one year shown under current liabilities

Amount due after one year

2015
US$’000

75,000
970,021

1,045,021
—

1,045,021

2014
US$’000

75,000
703,565

778,565
95,699

874,264

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

—

95,699

588,341
86,701
369,979

1,045,021
(588,341)

456,349
145,301
176,915

874,264
(552,048)

456,680

322,216

The ranges of effective interest rates (which are also equal to contracted interest rates) on the Group’s borrowings are as follows:

Effective interest rate:
  Fixed-rate borrowings
  Variable-rate borrowings

2015

2014

7.44%
0.51% to 2.58% 1.11% to 3.63%

N/A

The Group’s borrowings that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the relevant group entities are set out 
below:

As at December 31, 2015
As at December 31, 2014

US$’000

390,904
195,419

Note: 

In 2003, the Group issued fixed interest rate notes, through its wholly-owned subsidiary in the US, for an aggregate principal amount of US$145,000,000. The 

notes were issued in two fixed rate tranches, being US$120,000,000 for 10 years at 6.70% per annum and US$25,000,000 for 7 years at 6.09% per annum. 

The proceeds were used to refinance existing medium term debts and for general working capital purposes. The first and second tranche was fully repaid in 

2013 and 2010 respectively.

In 2005, the Group issued additional fixed interest rate notes, through its wholly-owned subsidiary in the US, for an aggregate principal amount of 

US$200,000,000. The notes were issued in two fixed rate tranches of US$150,000,000 for 10 years at 7.44% per annum and US$50,000,000 for 7 years at 

7.17% per annum. The proceeds were used to finance the acquisition of subsidiaries. The first and second tranche was fully repaid in current year and 2012 

respectively.

The carrying amount of bank borrowings approximates their fair value as the weighted average interest rates approximate the contracted 
market rates.

122

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38. Share Capital

Ordinary shares
Authorised shares

Issued and fully paid:
  At the beginning of the year

Issue of shares upon exercise of share options

  Buy-back of shares
  Transfer of share premium and capital

redemption reserve upon abolition of par value 
  under the new Hong Kong Companies Ordinance

2014
Number of shares Number of shares

2015

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2,400,000,000

2,400,000,000

N/A

N/A

1,831,346,941
2,390,000
—

1,829,883,941
2,328,000
(865,000)

643,914
3,195
—

—

—

—

At the end of the year

1,833,736,941

1,831,346,941

647,109

Details of the share options are set out in Note 46.

23,471
1,408
—

619,035

643,914

123

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
39. Reserves

Share
premium
US$’000

617,563
—

—

—

—

1,247
—
—

—
—
—

The Company
At January 1, 2014
Profit for the year
Fair value gain on foreign
  currency forward contracts

in hedge accounting

Other comprehensive income

for the year

Total comprehensive income

for the year

Shares issued at premium on
  exercise of options
Buy-back of shares
Shares for share award scheme
Recognition of equity settled
  share-based payments
Final dividend – 2013
Interim dividend – 2014
Transfer upon abolition of par
  value under the new Hong
  Kong Companies Ordinance

225
—

—

—

—

—
—
—

—
—
—

(Note)

(618,810)

(225)

At December 31, 2014
Loss for the year
Fair value loss on foreign
  currency forward contracts

in hedge accounting

Other comprehensive loss

for the year

Total comprehensive loss

for the year

Shares issued at premium on
  exercise of options
Vesting of awarded shares
Shares for share award scheme
Recognition of equity settled
  share-based payments
Final dividend – 2014
Interim dividend – 2015

At December 31, 2015

—
—

—

—

—

—
—
—

—
—
—

—

—
—

—

—

—

—
—
—

—
—
—

—

Capital
redemption
reserve
US$’000

Shares
held for share
award scheme
US$’000

Employee
share-based
compensation
reserve
US$’000

Hedging
reserve
US$’000

Retained
profits
US$’000

Total
US$’000

—
—

—

—

—

—
—
(2,441)

—
—
—

—

(2,441)
—

—

—

—

—
813
(7,626)

—
—
—

(9,254)

2,733
—

(3,724)
—

388,712
1,242,198

1,005,509
1,242,198

—

—

—

(497)
—
—

1,718
—
—

—

3,954
—

—

—

—

(637)
(813)
—

3,546
—
—

6,050

24,811

24,811

—

—

24,811

24,811

24,811

1,242,198

1,267,009

—
—
—

—
—
—

—

—
(2,486)
—

—
(32,400)
(29,458)

750
(2,486)
(2,441)

1,718
(32,400)
(29,458)

—

(619,035)

21,087
—

1,566,566
(47,502)

1,589,166
(47,502)

(21,087)

(21,087)

—

—

(21,087)

(21,087)

(21,087)

(47,502)

(68,589)

—
—
—

—
—
—

—

—
—
—

—
(44,799)
(37,726)

(637)
—
(7,626)

3,546
(44,799)
(37,726)

1,436,539

1,433,335

Note:  The Company’s shares have no par value from the commencement date of Chapter 622 of the new Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (i.e. March 3, 2014).

As at December 31, 2015, the Company’s reserves available for distribution to shareholders comprised the retained profits of 
US$1,436,539,000 (2014: US$1,566,566,000).

124

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40. Retirement Benefit Obligations
Defined Contribution Plans:
The Company and its subsidiaries operating in Hong Kong have participated in the Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes (“MPF Schemes”) 
registered under the Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes Ordinance since December 2000. The assets of the MPF Schemes are held 
separately from those of the Group, in funds under the control of trustees. The Group contributes 5% of relevant payroll cost to the MPF 
Schemes with maximum amount of HK$18,000 (2014: HK$16,750) per employee per annum, which contribution is matched by the 
employee.

The employees of the Group’s subsidiaries in the PRC are members of a state-managed retirement benefit scheme operated by the PRC 
government. The subsidiaries are required to contribute a specified percentage of payroll costs to the retirement benefit scheme to fund 
the benefits. The only obligation of the Group with respect to the retirement benefit scheme is to make the specified contributions.

The Group’s overseas subsidiaries operate a number of defined contribution schemes. Contributions to the defined contribution schemes 
applicable to each year are made at a certain percentage of the employees’ payroll.

The total expense recognised in profit or loss of US$4,373,000 (2014: US$3,475,000) represents contributions payable to these plans by 
the Group at rates specified in the rules of the plans.

Defined Benefits Plans:
The Group operates several defined benefit plans for qualifying employees of its subsidiaries in Germany and the US, of which these 
plans cover substantially all remaining employees that are not covered by defined contribution plans. The defined benefit plan is 
administered by a separate fund that is legally separated from the Group. The board of the pension fund is composed of an equal number 
of representatives from both employers and (former) employees. The board of the pension fund is required by law and by its articles of 
association to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme, i.e. active employees, inactive employees, 
retirees, employers. The board of the pension fund is responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund. The major 
defined benefit plans are as follows:

Pension plan obligations (Note i)
Post-retirement, medical and dental plan obligations (Note ii)
Life and medical insurance plan (Note ii)
Post-employment benefit plan obligations (Note iii)
Others

Note i: 

Pension plan obligations

2015
US$’000

77,871
126
1,109
9,813
10,977

99,896

2014
US$’000

87,027
220
1,100
5,661
5,399

99,407

The pension plan obligations are provided in the German operations and includes a plan that pays retirement benefits on service and final pay. In general, 

the benefit plans were closed to new members at the end of 1995. Under the plan, the employees are entitled to retirement benefits varying between 10% 

and 20% of final salary (based on the average of the last three years) on attainment of a retirement age of 65. The most recent actuarial valuations of the 

present value of the defined benefit obligations were carried out on January 1, 2016, by BDO Deutsche Warentreuhand Aktiengesellschaft, Germany.

Note ii: 

Post-retirement, medical and dental plan obligations/Life and medical insurance plan

Milwaukee Electric Tool Corporation, a subsidiary of the Group in the US, operates unfunded post-retirement, medical benefits, dental and life insurance 

plans. The most recent actuarial valuations of the present value of the obligations were carried out on January 6, 2016 by Willis North America, Inc.

Note iii: 

Post-employment benefit plan obligations

The pension plan obligations are provided by Hoover Inc. for members of IBEW (International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers) Local 1985 employed by 

Hoover. The most recent actuarial valuation of the present value of the obligations were carried out on January 11, 2016 by CBIZ Benefits & Insurance 

Services.

125

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)

Defined Benefits Plans: (continued)
The plans in Germany and the US expose the Group to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and salary 
risk.

Investment risk

Interest risk

Longevity risk

Salary risk

The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate determined by reference 
to high quality corporate bond yields; if the return on plan asset is below this rate, it will create a plan deficit.
A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the plan liability; however, this will be partially offset by an 
increase in the return on the plan’s debt investments.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality 
of plan participants both during and after their employment. An increase in the life expectancy of the plan 
participants will increase the plan’s liability.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan 
participants. As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.

The risk relating to benefits to be paid to the dependents of plan members (widow and orphan benefits) is reinsured by an external 
insurance company.

The main actuarial assumptions used were as follows:

Discount rate
Expected rate of salary increases
Expected return on plan assets
Future pension increases
Medical cost trend rates

Pension plan

Post-retirement
medical and dental plan

Life & medical
insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2015

2.70%
2.00%
N/A
2.00%
N/A

2014

2.70%
2.00%
N/A
2.00%
N/A

2015

1.00%
N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

2014

0.75%
N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

2015

3.25%
N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

2014

3.25%
N/A
N/A
N/A
5.00%

2015

3.71%
N/A
3.71%
N/A
N/A

2014

4.57%
N/A
4.57%
N/A
N/A

The actuarial valuation showed that the market value of plan assets was US$5,637,000 (2014: US$7,445,000) and that the actuarial 
value of these assets represented 36.5% (2014: 56.8%) of the benefits that had accrued to members.

The effect of an increase of one percentage point in the assumed medical cost trend rate on the aggregate of the current service cost and 
interest cost; and the accumulated post-employment benefit obligations are as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement
medical and dental plan

Life & medical
insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

Current service cost and interest cost
Accumulated post-employment benefit
  obligations for medical costs

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

—

1

—

2

2

66

2

72

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

126

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
40. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)

Amounts recognised in comprehensive income in respect of the plans are as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement
medical and dental plan

Life & medical
Insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

Service cost:
  Current service cost
Net interest on defined benefit liabilities

Components of defined benefit costs

recognised in profit or loss

Remeasurement on the net defined
  benefit liability:
Actuarial losses (gains) arising from changes

300
2,022

312
2,397

2,322

2,709

in financial assumptions

744

5,323

Components of defined benefit costs

recognised in other comprehensive income

Total

744

3,066

5,323

8,032

The charge for the year has been included in staff costs.

—
1

1

(80)

(80)

(79)

—
2

2

(134)

(134)

(132)

—
34

34

43

43

77

—
52

52

—
232

232

—
351

351

(437)

3,920

2,115

(437)

(385)

3,920

4,152

2,115

2,466

The amount included in the consolidated statement of financial position arising from the Group’s obligation in respect of the major plans is 
as follows:

Present value of funded obligations
Fair value of plan assets

Present value of unfunded obligations

Pension plan

Post-retirement
medical and dental plan

Life & medical
insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2015
US$’000

—
—

—
77,871

77,871

2014
US$’000

—
—

—
87,027

87,027

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

—
—

—
126

126

—
—

—
220

220

—
—

—
1,109

1,109

—
—

—
1,100

1,100

2015
US$’000

15,450
(5,637)

9,813
—

9,813

2014
US$’000

13,106
(7,445)

5,661
—

5,661

127

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)

Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligations in the current year in respect of major plans were as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement
medical and dental plan

Life & medical
insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2015
US$’000

87,027
(8,374)
300
744
2,022
(3,848)

77,871

2014
US$’000

95,476
(11,846)
312
5,323
2,397
(4,635)

87,027

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

220
—
—
(80)
1
(15)

126

383
—
—
(134)
2
(31)

220

1,100
—
—
43
34
(68)

1,109

1,549
—
—
(437)
52
(64)

1,100

13,106
—
—
3,666
482
(1,804)

15,450

12,183
—
—
1,938
526
(1,541)

13,106

At January 1
Exchange differences
Current service cost
Actuarial losses (gains)
Interest cost
Benefit paid

At December 31

Movements in the fair value of the plan assets in the current year in respect of certain major plans were as follows:

Pension plan

Post-retirement
medical and dental plan

Life & medical
insurance plan

Post-employment
benefit plan

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

7,445
—
250
(254)
—
(1,804)

5,637

4,489
—
175
(177)
4,500
(1,542)

7,445

At January 1
Exchange differences
Expected return on plan assets
Actuarial losses
Contribution from employer
Benefit paid

At December 31

The plan assets of the post-employment benefit plan are cash and cash equivalents in a Federated Money Market Fund with an expected 
return of 4.57% (2014: 4.57%).

The actual return on plan assets was US$254,000 (2014: US$177,000).

Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined obligation is discount rate, if the discount rate is 100 basis points 
higher (lower), the effect on defined benefit obligation would be immaterial.

The Group expects to make a contribution of US$3,500,000 (2014: nil) to the defined benefit plans during the next financial year.

128

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
41. Deferred Tax Assets (Liabilities)

The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised and movements thereon during the current and prior year:

Accelerated
tax 
depreciation
US$’000

(1,899)
37
5,685
—

3,823
(11)
(10,481)
—

Warranty
provision
US$’000

4,155
(173)
2,274
—

6,256
(185)
5,583
—

Employee
related
provision
US$’000

32,860
(212)
3,311
2,282

38,241
(151)
3,748
1,823

Tax losses
US$’000

39,747
(323)
7,695
—

47,119
(15)
60,742
—

Inventory
provision
and LIFO
US$’000

5,142
(64)
3,205
—

8,283
(59)
5,057
—

(6,669)

11,654

43,661

107,846

13,281

Others
US$’000

(7,216)
(266)
(12,360)
(1,334)

(21,176)
(62)
(13,653)
482

(34,409)

Total
US$’000

72,789
(1,001)
9,810
948

82,546
(483)
50,996
2,305

135,364

At January 1, 2014
Currency realignment
Credit (charge) to profit or loss
Credit (charge) to equity

At December 31, 2014
Currency realignment
(Charge) credit to profit or loss
Credit to equity

At December 31, 2015

For the purpose of presentation in the consolidated statement of financial position, certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been 
offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances for financial reporting purposes:

Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax liabilities

2015
US$’000

146,064
(10,700)

135,364

2014
US$’000

86,911
(4,365)

82,546

At the end of the reporting period, the Group has unused tax losses of US$715 million (2014: US$532 million) available for the offset 
against future taxable profits that carry forward for at least twenty years. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of tax losses 
of US$443 million (2014: US$409 million) due to the lack of probable future taxable profits.

129

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42. Acquisition of Subsidiaries / a Business

In 2015, the Group acquired a business in Thailand for a consideration of approximately US$1 million and two companies which hold 
leasehold land and building located in Hong Kong for a consideration of approximately US$70 million. 

Net Assets Acquired
Property, plant and equipment
Inventories
Trade and other receivables, deposits and prepayments
Bank balances and cash
Trade and other payables

Goodwill arising on acquisition of a business

Total consideration

Net cash outflow arising on acquisition:
  Total consideration
  Less: Bank balances and cash acquired

Net outflow of cash and cash equivalents in respect of the acquisition of subsidiaries / a business

Fair value
US$’000

69,815
270
223
88
(730)

69,666
1,424

71,090

71,090
(88)

71,002

Acquisition-related costs are insignificance and have been excluded from the consideration transferred and have been recognised as an 
expense in the current year.

The  revenue  and  profit  or  loss  of  the  acquired  businesses  for  the  current  reporting  period  as  though  the  acquisition  date  for  the 
acquisitions  that  occurred  during  the  year  has  been  as  of  the  beginning  of  the  annual  reporting  period  is  not  presented  as  it  was 
impracticable to obtain various values in various acquiree’s operations prior to the acquisition.

43. Major Non-Cash Transactions

During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Group entered into finance lease arrangements in respect of assets at the inception of the 
finance leases of US$1,878,000 (2014: US$10,395,000).

44. Lease Commitments

At the end of the reporting period, the Group had outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as 
follows:

Within one year
In the second to fifth year inclusive
After five years

2015
US$’000

46,908
109,604
48,228

204,740

2014
US$’000

46,795
109,589
51,257

207,641

Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its plant and machinery, motor vehicles, office properties 
and other assets. Leases are negotiated for a term ranging from 1 year to 17 years.

130

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45. Contingent Liabilities

Guarantees given to banks in respect of credit facilities utilised by associates

2015
US$’000

8,877

2014
US$’000

8,877

In addition, the Company has given guarantees to banks in respect of general facilities granted to its subsidiaries. The extent of such 
facilities utilised by the subsidiaries as at December 31, 2015 amounted to US$207,031,000 (2014: US$294,911,000).

46. Share Options

Scheme adopted on May 29, 2007 (“Scheme D”)
Scheme D was adopted pursuant to a resolution passed on May 29, 2007 for recognition of the contribution to the development and 
growth of the Group by the eligible persons. This scheme will expire on May 28, 2017. Under Scheme D, the Board of Directors of the 
Company may grant share options to the following eligible persons (and their wholly owned companies) of the Company, its subsidiaries 
and any companies in which the Group holds any equity interest, to subscribe for shares in the Company:

(i) 

employees; or

(ii)  Non-executive Directors (including Independent Non-executive Directors or Officers); or

(iii) 

secondees; or

(iv)  business partners, agents, consultants; or

(v) 

suppliers or customers; or

(vi) 

any person or entity that provides research, development or other technological support; or

(vii)  shareholders.

Share options granted must be taken up within 21 days of the date of grant, upon payment of HK$1.00 in cash by way of consideration for 
the grant thereof. Share options may be exercised at any time, subject to vesting conditions from the date of grant to the tenth anniversary 
thereof. The subscription price is set at the highest of: the closing price of the shares on the date of offer of the share option; or the 
average closing price of shares as stated in the daily quotation sheets issued by the Stock Exchange for the five trading days immediately 
preceding the date of offer; or the nominal value of shares on the date of offer.

The maximum number of shares in respect of which share options may be granted under Scheme D is not permitted to exceed 30.0% of 
the issued share capital of the Company from time to time or 10.0% of shares in issue as at the adoption date of Scheme D. No person 
shall be granted an option which exceeds 1.0% of the shares in issue as at the date of offer in any 12-month period up to the date thereof.

Options may be exercised at any time after the first anniversary of the date of grant of the share option to the tenth anniversary of the date 
of grant. The exercise price is determined by the Directors of the Company, and will not be less than the higher of (i) the closing price of 
the Company’s shares on the date of grant, (ii) the average closing price of the shares for the five business days immediately preceding 
the date of grant; and (iii) the nominal value of the Company’s share.

131

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46. Share Options (continued)

The following tables disclose movements in the Company’s share options during the year:

Date of

Share option

 share options

 granted

 scheme

category

Outstanding

at beginning

of the year

Granted

during

the year

Exercised

during

the year

Lapsed

during

the year

Outstanding

at end of

the year

Subscription

price

HK$

Exercise period

2015

Share option holders

Directors

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

26.11.2010

21.5.2012

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

16.11.2009

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

21.5.2012

20.3.2014

11.9.2015

Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP

11.9.2015

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

11.9.2015

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

11.9.2015

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

11.9.2015

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

11.9.2015

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

600,000

570,000

230,000

—

1,000,000

1,000,000

—

—

—

168,000

—

—

—

250,000

1,000,000

—

—

250,000

—

—

250,000

150,000

150,000

—

—

150,000

—

—

—

150,000

—

—

—

150,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

—

—

—

100,000

250,000

—

200,000

200,000

250,000

—

400,000

200,000

250,000

—

200,000

250,000

(600,000)

(570,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

230,000

168,000

8.310  

26.11.2010 

- 25.11.2020

8.742  

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

21.600  

20.3.2014 

-  19.3.2024

29.650  

11.9.2015 

-  10.9.2025

1,000,000

6.770  

16.11.2009 

- 15.11.2019

1,000,000

250,000

1,000,000

250,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

250,000

21.600  

20.3.2014 

-  19.3.2024

29.650  

11.9.2015 

-  10.9.2025

21.600  

20.3.2014 

-  19.3.2024

29.650  

11.9.2015 

-  10.9.2025

8.742  

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

21.600  

20.3.2014 

-  19.3.2024

29.650  

11.9.2015 

-  10.9.2025

150,000

29.650  

11.9.2015 

-  10.9.2025

150,000

29.650  

11.9.2015 

-  10.9.2025

9.872  

23.5.2011 

-  22.5.2021

8.742  

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

29.650  

11.9.2015 

-  10.9.2025

6.770  

16.11.2009 

- 15.11.2019

9.872  

23.5.2011 

-  22.5.2021

8.742  

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

29.650  

11.9.2015 

-  10.9.2025

6.770  

16.11.2009 

- 15.11.2019

9.872  

23.5.2011 

-  22.5.2021

8.742  

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

29.650  

11.9.2015 

-  10.9.2025

9.872  

23.5.2011 

-  22.5.2021

8.742  

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

100,000

250,000

150,000

200,000

200,000

250,000

150,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

150,000

—

—

8,748,000

—

—

(200,000)

(250,000)

Total for directors

8,700,000

1,668,000

(1,620,000)

132

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46. Share Options (continued)

The following tables disclose movements in the Company’s share options during the year: (continued)

2015

Share option holders

Employees

Total for employees

Total for all categories

2014

Share option holders

Directors

Mr Horst Julius Pudwill

Mr Joseph Galli Jr

Mr Kin Wah Chan

Mr Chi Chung Chan

Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Mr Joel Arthur Schleicher

Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE

Mr Manfred Kuhlmann

Mr Peter David Sullivan

Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Date of

Share option

share options

granted

scheme

category

Outstanding

at beginning

of the year

Granted

during

the year

24.8.2007

16.10.2007

7.11.2007

14.1.2008

17.4.2008

14.5.2008

30.5.2008

16.11.2009

28.12.2009

13.9.2010

17.1.2011

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

830,000

60,000

40,000

505,000

400,000

40,000

250,000

1,680,000

30,000

500,000

20,000

4,355,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Exercised

during

the year

(100,000)

(10,000)

—

—

(50,000)

—

—

(110,000)

—

(500,000)

—

(770,000)

13,055,000

1,668,000

(2,390,000)

Lapsed

during

the year

Outstanding

at end of

the year

Subscription

price

HK$

Exercise period

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

730,000

50,000

40,000

505,000

350,000

40,000

250,000

8.390  

24.8.2007 

-  23.8.2017

8.810  

16.10.2007 

- 15.10.2017

8.088  

7.11.2007 

-  6.11.2017

7.566  

14.1.2008 

-  13.1.2018

7.780  

17.4.2008 

-  16.4.2018

7.500  

14.5.2008 

-  13.5.2018

7.546  

30.5.2008 

-  29.5.2018

1,570,000

6.770  

16.11.2009 

- 15.11.2019

6.390  

28.12.2009 

- 27.12.2019

7.390  

13.9.2010 

-  12.9.2020

10.436  

17.1.2011 

-  16.1.2021

30,000

—

20,000

3,585,000

12,333,000

Date of

Share option

share options

granted

scheme

category

Outstanding

at beginning

of the year

Granted 

during

the year

Exercised 

during 

the year

Lapsed

during

the year

Outstanding 

at end of 

the year

16.11.2009

26.11.2010

21.5.2012

20.3.2014

16.11.2009

20.3.2014

20.3.2014

21.5.2012

20.3.2014

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

21.5.2012

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

16.11.2009

23.5.2011

21.5.2012

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

600,000

600,000

570,000

—

1,000,000

—

—

1,000,000

—

—

—

230,000

—

1,000,000

1,000,000

—

—

1,000,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

250,000

100,000

250,000

200,000

200,000

250,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(600,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(400,000)

—

—

(250,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Total for directors

6,720,000

3,230,000

(1,250,000)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

600,000

570,000

230,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

1,000,000

—

200,000

250,000

—

100,000

250,000

200,000

200,000

250,000

400,000

200,000

250,000

8,700,000

Subscription

price

HK$

Exercise period

6.770

8.310

8.742

21.600

6.770

21.600

21.600

8.742

21.600

6.770

9.872

8.742

8.742

9.872

8.742

6.770

9.872

8.742

6.770

9.872

8.742

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

26.11.2010 

-  25.11.2020

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

20.3.2014 

-  19.3.2024

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

20.3.2014 

-  19.3.2024

20.3.2014 

-  19.3.2024

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

20.3.2014 

-  19.3.2024

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

23.5.2011 

-  22.5.2021

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

23.5.2011 

-  22.5.2021

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

23.5.2011 

-  22.5.2021

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

23.5.2011 

-  22.5.2021

21.5.2012 

-  20.5.2022

133

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46. Share Options (continued)

The following tables disclose movements in the Company’s share options during the year: (continued)

2014

Date of

Share

share options

option scheme

Outstanding

at beginning

Granted

Share option holders

granted

 category

of the year

during the year

24.8.2007

16.10.2007

7.11.2007

14.1.2008

17.4.2008

14.5.2008

30.5.2008

16.11.2009

7.12.2009

28.12.2009

13.9.2010

17.1.2011

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

D

980,000

60,000

40,000

518,000

575,000

40,000

350,000

2,220,000

100,000

30,000

500,000

20,000

5,433,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

12,153,000

3,230,000

(2,328,000)

Exercised

during

the year

(150,000)

—

—

(13,000)

(175,000)

—

(100,000)

(540,000)

(100,000)

—

—

—

(1,078,000)

Lapsed

during

the year

Outstanding

at end of 

the year

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

830,000

60,000

40,000

505,000

400,000

40,000

250,000

1,680,000

—

30,000

500,000

20,000

4,355,000

13,055,000

Subscription

price

HK$

8.390

8.810

8.088

7.566

7.780

7.500

7.546

6.770

6.790

6.390

7.390

Exercise period

24.8.2007 

-  23.8.2017

16.10.2007 

-  15.10.2017

7.11.2007 

-  6.11.2017

14.1.2008 

-  13.1.2018

17.4.2008 

-  16.4.2018

14.5.2008 

-  13.5.2018

30.5.2008 

-  29.5.2018

16.11.2009 

-  15.11.2019

7.12.2009 

-  6.12.2019

28.12.2009 

-  27.12.2019

13.9.2010 

-  12.9.2020

10.436

17.1.2011 

-  16.1.2021

Employees

Total for employees

Total for all categories

The following table discloses details of the Company’s share options held by employees (including directors) and movements in such 
holdings during the year:

Option type

Scheme D

Exercisable at the end of the year

Option type

Scheme D

Exercisable at the end of the year

Outstanding
at January 1,
2015

Granted
during
the year

Exercised
during
the year

13,055,000

1,668,000

(2,390,000)

13,055,000

1,668,000

(2,390,000)

Outstanding
at January 1,
2014

Granted
during
the year

Exercised
during
the year

12,153,000

3,230,000

(2,328,000)

12,153,000

3,230,000

(2,328,000)

Lapsed or
cancelled
during the
year

—

—

Lapsed or
cancelled
during the
year

—

—

Outstanding at
December 31,
2015

12,333,000

12,333,000

9,050,000

Outstanding at
December 31,
2014

13,055,000

13,055,000

9,825,000

134

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46. Share Options (continued)

Details of the share options held by the directors included in the above table are as follows:

2015

2014

Outstanding
at January 1

Granted
during
the year

Exercised
during
the year

Lapsed
during
the year

Outstanding at
December 31

8,700,000

1,668,000

(1,620,000)

—

8,748,000

Outstanding
at January 1

Granted
during
the year

Exercised
during
the year

Lapsed
during
the year

Outstanding at
December 31

6,720,000

3,230,000

(1,250,000)

—

8,700,000

The following significant assumptions were used to derive the fair values using the Black-Scholes option pricing model:

Date of grant

For the year ended December 31, 2015
11.9.2015

For the year ended December 31, 2014
20.3.2014

Exercise price
HK$

Expected
life of share
options

Expected
volatility based
on historical
volatility of
share prices

Hong Kong
Exchange Fund
Notes rate/Yields
of Hong Kong
Government Bonds

Expected
annual
dividend yield

29.650

3 years

21.600

3 years

40%

41%

0.523%

0.712%

1.5%

1.5%

The share options are vested in parts over 3 years from the date of grant.

Expected volatility was determined by using the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the previous 3 years. The expected 
life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions 
and behavioural considerations.

The Black-Scholes option pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the volatility of the share price. 
Because changes in subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in the directors’ opinion, the existing model 
does not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of the share options.

The weighted average closing price of shares immediately before the options grant date during 2015 was HK$29.80 (2014: HK$20.40).

The closing price of the Company’s shares immediately before the date of grant was HK$29.80 in 2015 (2014: HK$20.40).

The weighted average closing prices of the Company’s shares immediately before various dates during 2015 and 2014 on which the share 
options were exercised were HK$29.83 and HK$24.59 respectively.

The Group recognised a total expense of US$1,189,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015 (2014: US$1,436,000) in relation to 
share options granted by the Company.

The fair value of the share options granted in 2015 measured at the date of grant was HK$7.39 (2014: HK$5.56) per option.

The Company had 12,333,000 share options outstanding, which represented approximately 0.67% of the issued share capital of the 
Company as at December 31, 2015. No option was cancelled during the year.

Total securities available for issue under Scheme D is 150,505,065 shares, which represented approximately 8.21% of the issued shares 
of the Company as at December 31, 2015.

135

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
47. Share Award Scheme

The purpose of the share award scheme is to recognise the contributions by certain eligible persons and to provide them with incentives in 
order to retain them for the continual operation and development of the Group and to attract suitable personnel for further development of 
the Group.

The share award scheme of the Company was adopted by the Board of Directors on January 9, 2008. The Board may from time to time 
at their absolute discretion select any eligible person for participation in the scheme as a selected grantee and determine the number of 
shares to be awarded or make reference to a nominal amount. The Board must cause to be paid to the trustee the purchase price and the 
related expenses. The trustee must either purchase shares from the market or subscribe for new shares. The trustee must hold the shares 
until they are vested in accordance with the scheme rules. When the selected grantee has satisfied all vesting conditions specified by the 
board at the time of making the award and become entitled to the shares forming the subject of the award, the trustee will transfer the 
relevant vested shares together with the income derived therefrom (net of accrued interest) to the selected grantee.

An award of shares automatically lapses when, (i) a selected grantee who is an employee ceases to be an employee; or (ii) the subsidiary 
by which a selected grantee is employed ceases to be a subsidiary of the Company (or of a member of the Group); or (iii) a selected 
grantee who is a Director of the Company or a subsidiary ceases to be a director of the same; or (iv) an order for the winding-up of the 
Company is made or a resolution is passed (otherwise than for certain purposes) for the voluntary winding-up of the Company, and, in any 
such case, the award, unless the Board otherwise agrees, automatically lapses forthwith and all the awarded shares and related income of 
such award do not vest on the relevant vesting date but become returned shares for the purpose of the scheme.

Recognition of share-based payment expenses under share award scheme during the year was US$2,357,000 (2014: US$282,000). 
During 2015, 274,500 shares (2014: nil) were transferred to the awardees upon vesting.

(i)  Movements in the number of awarded shares and their related average fair value were as follows:

At January 1
Awarded (Note (a))
Vested

At December 31 (Note (b))

Notes:

Number

2015

824,000
1,800,000
(274,500)

2,349,500

2014

—
824,000
—

824,000

(a) 

All the awarded shares are purchased from the market.

(b) 

At the end of the year, the average fair value per share is HK$26.00 (2014: HK$23.02). The average fair value of the awarded shares is based on the 

average purchase cost.

(ii) 

The remaining vesting periods of the awarded shares outstanding are as follows:

Number of awarded shares

2015

1,324,500
1,025,000

2,349,500

2014

274,500
549,500

824,000

Less than 1 year
More than 1 year

136

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48. Capital Commitments

Capital expenditure in respect of the purchase of property, plant and equipment:
  Contracted for but not provided
  Authorised but not contracted for

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

20,942
1,991

9,077
2,851

49. Related Party Transactions

During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions with its associates, which did not constitute connected transactions 
under Chapter 14A of the Listing Rules:

Sales income
Purchases

The remuneration of directors and other members of key management during the year was as follows:

Short-term benefits
Post-employment benefits
Share-based payments

2015
US$’000

9,305
7,003

2015
US$’000

46,078
607
3,546

50,231

2014
US$’000

10,316
37

2014
US$’000

42,844
348
1,718

44,910

Details of the balances and transactions with related parties are set out in the statements of financial position and Notes 21, 26 and 45.

137

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50. Statement of Financial Position of the Company

As at December 31, 2015

ASSETS
Non-current assets
  Property, plant and equipment

Intangible assets
Investments in subsidiaries

  Loans to subsidiaries
Interests in associates

  Available-for-sale investments

Current assets
  Other receivables
  Deposits and prepayments
  Amounts due from subsidiaries
  Derivative financial instruments
  Held-for-trading investments
  Bank balances, deposits and cash

Current liabilities
  Trade and other payables
  Tax payable
  Derivative financial instruments
  Amounts due to subsidiaries
  Unsecured borrowings - due within one year

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Capital and Reserves
  Share capital
  Reserves

Non-current Liabilities
  Unsecured borrowings - due after one year

Total equity and non-current liabilities

Note

2015
US$’000

2014
US$’000

3,594
10
1,020,765
856,681
5,298
183

4,825
—
1,007,613
841,716
5,225
189

1,886,531

1,859,568

4,372
8,483
1,863,707
35
1,116
220,712

5,861
4,661
1,380,060
27,897
1,155
195,383

2,098,425

1,615,017

32,486
2,700
684
911,746
500,216

1,447,832

650,593

33,877
2,700
8,758
494,702
379,252

919,289

695,728

2,537,124

2,555,296

39

647,109
1,433,335

643,914
1,589,166

2,080,444

2,233,080

456,680

322,216

2,537,124

2,555,296

The Company’s statement of financial position was approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on March 15, 2016 and 
are signed on its behalf by:

Chi Chung Chan
Group Executive Director

Stephan Horst Pudwill
Group Executive Director

138

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51. Particulars of Principal Subsidiaries

Particulars of the principal subsidiaries of the Company as at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 are as follows:

Proportion of nominal value 
of issued capital 
held by the Company

Directly
%

Indirectly
%

Principal activities

Name of subsidiary

AC (Macao Commercial
  Offshore) Limited

Place of
incorporation/
operation

Issued and fully paid
 share capital

Macau

MOP 780,000

Baja, Inc.

US

US$ 17.36

DreBo Werkzeugfabrik GmbH *

Germany

EUR 1,000,000

Homelite Consumer Products,

Inc.

Hoover Inc.

US

US

US$ 10

US$ 1

Marco Polo Industries &
  Merchandising Company Limited

Hong Kong

HK$ 100,000

Milwaukee Electric Tool
  Corporation

One World Technologies, Inc.

US

US

US$ 50,000,000

US$ 10

Royal Appliance International GmbH

Germany

EUR 2,050,000

Royal Appliance Mfg. Co.

US

US$ 1

Sang Tech Industries Limited

Hong Kong

Santo Industries Limited

Hong Kong

HK$ 1,000,000

HK$ 2,000,000

—

—

—

—

—

100

—

—

100

—

100

100

Solar Wide Industrial Limited

Hong Kong

HK$ 2,000,000

75.725

100

Trading of power equipment,

floor care and outdoor power

  equipment products

100

100

100

Trading of outdoor power
  equipment products

Trading and manufacture of
  power equipment products

Trading of outdoor power
  equipment products

100

Trading and manufacture of

floor care products

—

100

100

—

100

—

—

—

Trading of household electronic and
  electrical products

Trading and manufacture of
  power equipment products

Trading of power equipment 
  products

Trading of floor care products

Trading and manufacture of

floor care products

Manufacture of plastic parts

Manufacture of metallic parts

Manufacture of electronic products

139

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51. Particulars of Principal Subsidiaries (continued)

Place of
incorporation/
operation

Issued and fully paid
 share capital

Proportion of nominal value 
of issued capital 
held by the Company

Principal activities

Directly
%

100

—

100

—

—

—

—

—

—

100

—

Indirectly
%

—

100

Investment and intellectual
  properties holding

Manufacture of power equipment,
floor care and outdoor power

  equipment products

—

Provision of inspection services

100

Trading of power equipment
  products

100

Trading of power equipment,

floor care and outdoor power

  equipment products

100

100

100

100

—

Trading of power equipment
  products

Trading of power equipment
  products and outdoor
  power equipment products

Trading of power equipment
  products

Trading and manufacture of
  power equipment products

Trading of power equipment 
  products

100

Trading of power equipment,

floor care and outdoor power

  equipment products

Name of subsidiary

Techtronic Floor Care
  Technology Limited

Techtronic Industries

(Dongguan) Co. Ltd.#

Techtronic Industries
(Taiwan) Co. Ltd.

BVI

PRC

US$ 1

US$ 47,000,000

Taiwan

NTD 5,000,000

Techtronic Industries (UK) Ltd

United Kingdom

GBP 4,000,000

Techtronic Industries Australia
  Pty. Limited

Techtronic Industries Central
  Europe GmbH*

Australia

AUD 25,575,762

Germany

EUR 25,600

Techtronic Industries ELC GmbH*

Germany

EUR 25,000

Techtronic Industries France SAS

France

EUR 14,919,832

Techtronic Industries GmbH

Germany

EUR 20,452,500

Techtronic Industries Korea Limited

Korea

KRW 3,400,000,000

Techtronic Industries
  Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico

MXN 50,000
(Serie I)
MXN53,290,717
(Serie II)

140

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51. Particulars of Principal Subsidiaries (continued)

Name of subsidiary

Place of
incorporation/
operation

Issued and fully paid
 share capital

Proportion of nominal value 
of issued capital 
held by the Company

Principal activities

Techtronic Industries N.Z. Limited

New Zealand

NZD 4,165,500

US

US$ 10

Bermuda

US$ 12,000

Techtronic Industries North
  America, Inc.

Techtronic Outdoor Products
  Technology Limited

Techtronic Power Tools
  Technology Limited

Techtronic Product
  Development Limited

BVI

Hong Kong

Techtronic Trading Limited

Hong Kong

TTI Investments (Dongguan)
  Company Limited

Hong Kong

Vax Limited

United Kingdom

US$ 1

HK$ 2

HK$ 2

HK$ 2

GBP 30,000
(Ordinary A shares)
GBP 2,500
(Ordinary B shares)

Directly
%

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Indirectly
%

—

Trading of power equipment,

floor care and outdoor power

  equipment products

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Investment holding

Investment and intellectual
  properties holding

Investment and intellectual
  properties holding

Engage in research &
  development activities

Trading of power equipment,

floor care and outdoor power

  equipment products

Investment holding

Trading of household electrical and

floor care products

* 

# 

Exempt from the obligation to publish local financial statements.

A wholly foreign owned enterprise.

The above table lists the subsidiaries of the Company which, in the opinion of the directors, principally affected the results or assets of the 
Group. To give details of other subsidiaries would, in the opinion of the directors, result in particulars of excessive length.

141

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51. Particulars of Principal Subsidiaries (continued)

At the end of the reporting period, the Company has other subsidiaries that are not material to the Group. The principal activities of these 
subsidiaries are summarised as follows:

Principal activities

Principal place of business

Number of subsidiaries

Manufacture of power equipment,

Europe, Latin America, PRC, US

floor care and outdoor power equipment products

Trading of power equipment, floor
  care and other power equipment product
Investment holding
Dormant

Canada, Europe, HK, Latin America, 
  PRC, US
Australia, BVI, Europe, HK, US
BVI, Europe, HK, US

2015

2014

5

33

23
12

6

32

20
14

None of the subsidiaries had any debt securities outstanding at the end of the year, or at any time during the year.

52. Particulars of Principal Associate
Particulars of the principal associate is as follows:

Name of associate

Place of 
incorporation/
operation

Issued and 
fully paid 
share capital

Proportion of nominal value of 
issued capital held by 
the Company directly

Principal activities

Gimelli International
(Holdings) Limited

The Cayman Islands

US$ 6,250

2015
%

40.8

2014
%

40.8

Investment holding

142

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsFor the year ended December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results

Year ended December 31

2012
US$’000

2013
US$’000

2014
US$’000

2015
US$’000

2011
US$’000
(Restated)

Revenue

3,667,058

3,852,418

4,299,755

4,752,960

5,038,004

Profit before, share of results of
  associates and taxation
Share of results of associates

Profit before taxation
Taxation charge

Profit for the year

Attributable to:
  Owners of the Company
  Non-controlling interests

Profit for the year

161,704
(347)

161,357
(9,242)

152,115

152,009
106

152,115

222,246
—

222,246
(22,139)

200,107

200,991
(884)

200,107

276,398
—

276,398
(29,036)

247,362

250,284
(2,922)

247,362

325,159
—

325,159
(25,680)

299,479

300,330
(851)

299,479

386,957
—

386,957
(32,814)

354,143

354,427
(284)

354,143

Basic earnings per share (US cents)

9.47

11.42

13.68

16.41

19.37

Assets and Liabilities

Total assets
Total liabilities

As at December 31

2011
US$’000

3,369,616
2,115,488

2012
US$’000

3,581,078
2,024,556

2013
US$’000

4,012,559
2,267,123

2014
US$’000

4,351,383
2,384,357

2015
US$’000

4,802,718
2,647,146

1,254,128

1,556,522

1,745,436

1,967,026

2,155,572

Equity attributable to Owners of the Company
Non-controlling interests

1,245,576
8,552

1,548,877
7,645

1,740,713
4,723

1,967,153
(127)

2,155,983
(411)

1,254,128

1,556,522

1,745,436

1,967,026

2,155,572

143

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Financial Summary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Board of Directors
Group Executive Directors
Mr Horst Julius Pudwill
Chairman

Mr Joseph Galli Jr
Chief Executive Officer

Mr Patrick Kin Wah Chan
Mr Frank Chi Chung Chan
Mr Stephan Horst Pudwill

Non-executive Directors
Prof Roy Chi Ping Chung BBS JP
Mr Camille Jojo

Independent Non-executive Directors
Mr Christopher Patrick Langley OBE
Mr Manfred Kuhlmann
Mr Peter David Sullivan
Mr Vincent Ting Kau Cheung

Financial Calendar 2016
March 15 
May 18 

: Announcement of 2015 annual results
: Last day to register for the entitlement to
  attend and vote at Annual General Meeting
: Book closure period for the entitlement to
  attend and vote at Annual General Meeting
: Annual General Meeting
: Last day to register for 2015 final dividend
: Book closure for 2015 final dividend
: Final dividend payment
: Six months interim period end
: Financial year end

May 19-20 

May 20 
May 26 
May 27 
June 24 
June 30 
December 31 

Investor Relations Contact
Investor Relations and Communications
Techtronic Industries Co. Ltd.
29/F, Tower 2
Kowloon Commerce Centre
51 Kwai Cheong Road
Kwai Chung, N.T.
Hong Kong
email: ir@tti.com.hk

Website
www.ttigroup.com
Earnings results, annual/interim reports are available online.

144

Listing Information
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
  Ordinary Shares (stock code: 669)
ADR Level 1 Programme (symbol: TTNDY)

Share Registrar and Transfer Office
Tricor Secretaries Limited
Level 22, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East
Hong Kong
Tel: (852) 2980 1888

ADR Depositary
The Bank of New York

Principal Bankers
Bank of America, N.A.
Bank of China
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
Standard Chartered Bank
Citibank, N.A.
The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.

Solicitors
Vincent T.K. Cheung, Yap & Co.

Auditor
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu

Company Secretary
Ms Veronica Ka Po Ng

Trademarks
“MILWAUKEE, ONE-KEY, HOLE DOZER, FORCE LOGIC, EMPIRE, 
  FUEL, SUPERHAWG, RED HELIX, M12, TRUE BLUE, M18, M18 
  FUEL, SHOCKWAVE, HOMELITE, ONE+, HOOVER, WINDTUNNEL, 
  LINX, AIRLIFT, HUSHTONE, DIRT DEVIL, VAX, AIR, ORECK, 
  HART” are trademarks of the TTI Group.

“AEG” is a registered trademark of AB Electrolux (publ) and
  is used by the TTI Group pursuant to a license granted
  by AB Electrolux (publ).

“RYOBI” is a registered trademark of Ryobi Limited and
  is used by the TTI Group pursuant to a license granted
  by Ryobi Limited.

The Bluetooth® word mark and logos are registered trademarks 
  owned by Bluetooth SIG, Inc. and any use of such marks by TTI is 
  under license.

Techtronic Industries Annual Report 2015Corporate Information 
 
Published by Techtronic Industries Co. Ltd.
© 2016 Techtronic Industries Co. Ltd.

