2015

Annual Report
Orient Overseas (International) Limited

(Incorporated in Bermuda with Limited Liability)
Stock code: 316

Corporate profile

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (“OOIL”),  a  company  with  US$6.0  billion  in  total  revenues,  has  principal  business 
activities  in  container  transport  and  logistics  services.  Listed  on  The  Stock  Exchange  of  Hong  Kong,  the  OOIL  Group  has  more 
than 320 offices in 70 countries.

Orient Overseas Container Line and OOCL are trade names for transportation provided separately by Orient Overseas Container 
Line  Limited  (“OOCLL”)  and  OOCL  (Europe)  Limited  respectively  and  both  are  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  of  OOIL.  OOCL  is 
one  of  the  world’s  largest  integrated  international  transportation,  logistics  and  terminal  companies,  and  is  an  industry  leader  in 
the  use  of  information  technology  and  e-commerce  to  manage  the  entire  cargo  transport  process.  OOCL’s  modern  fleet  today 
includes  some  of  the  youngest,  largest,  fuel  efficient,  and  environmentally-friendly  vessels  carrying  cargo  on  hundreds  of  trade 
routes around the world, providing a vital link in Global Trade.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2015

Contents

Significant Events – 2015

  1  Contents
  2  Financial Highlights
  3 
  6  Chairman’s Letter
  10  Operations Review
  13  Major Customers and Suppliers
  20  Corporate Responsibility
  28  Financial Review
  44  Board of Directors
  48 
  50 

Senior Management
Shareholder Section

  50 
  51 

Financial Calendar
Shareholder Information

  53  Corporate Governance Report
  74  Report of the Directors

Index – Financial Information
Independent Auditor’s Report

  82 
  83 
  84  Financial Statements

  84 
  85 
  86 
  88 
  89 
  90 
  139 

Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and
Joint Ventures

 148  Other Information

  148 
  151 
  152  Corporate Information

Fleet and Container Information
10-Year Financial Summary

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$M

Consolidated profit and loss
Revenue
Operating profit
Revaluation of Wall Street Plaza
Finance costs
Profit for the year

Consolidated Balance Sheet
Liquid assets
Property, plant and equipment
Total assets
Borrowings
Total liabilities
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

Consolidated Net Cash flow
Operating activities
Investing activities
Financing activities
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents

Key ratios
Operating profit margin
Gross debt to equity
Net debt to equity
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Earnings per ordinary share (US cents)
Net asset value per ordinary share (US dollar)

2015

5,953
353
20
(64)
284

2,549
6,021
9,732
4,102
4,934
4,798

458
(274)
(386)
(202)

6%
0.85
0.32
6%
45.4
7.67

2014

6,522
329
10
(54)
270

2,690
5,609
9,633
3,985
4,999
4,635

479
(183)
(76)
220

5%
0.86
0.28
6%
43.2
7.41

Increase/
(decrease) %

(9%)
7%
100%
19%
5%

(5%)
7%
1%
3%
(1%)
4%

(4%)
50%
408%
N/M

1%
(1%)
4%
–
5%
3.5%

US$M

300

200

100

0

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Profit for the year (L.H.S.)

Operating profit margin (R.H.S.)

8%

6%

4%

2%

0%

US$

10

8

6

4

2

0

10%

8%

6%

4%

2%

0%

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share (L.H.S.)

Return on Average Ordinary Shareholders’ Equity (R.H.S.)

2

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Financial Highlights 
 
 
 
 
 
 
January  1  
OOCL celebrated the christening of the 8,888 TEU newbuilding, m.v. OOCL Taipei, on 
January 6 at a naming ceremony held on Changxing Island in Shanghai and the vessel 
was  named  by  Sponsor  Mrs.  Mylene  Seah,  wife  of  Mr.  Peter  Seah,  Chairman  of  DBS 
Bank Limited.

1

february
OOCL Logistics opened a new dedicated warehouse strategically located near the 
Lat Krabang Inland Container Depot (ICD) in Thailand with convenient access to 
the Suvarnabhumi Airport and Laem Chabang Seaport.

March  2 3
On  March  3,  John  Deere  and  Company 
awarded  OOCL  with  their  Five-Year 
“Hall  of  Fame”  designation  at  the  John 
Deere  Achieving  Excellence  Awards 
banquet  held  in  Bettendorf,  Iowa.  The 
award  recognizes  OOCL’s  commitment 
to  customers  through  evaluating  areas 
such  as  service  quality  and  delivery 
performance over the last 5 years.

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited 
and  its  subsidiaries  announced  a  profit 
attributable  to  equity  holders  for  2014  of 
US$270.5  million,  compared  to  a  profit 
of US$47.0 million in 2013 in its full year 
results announcement.

OOCL  won  the  ‘Best  Green  Business 
Award’  for  Green  Management  &  Future 
Leadership  at  the  Golden  Globe  Tigers 
Summit  and  Awards  2015  event  held  in 
Kuala  Lumpur,  Malaysia.  The  Golden 
Globe  Tigers  Award  is  organized  by  the 
Asian  Confederation  of  Business,  World 
CSR, CMO Council and CMO Asia.

The  8,888  TEU  newbuilding,  m.v.  OOCL 
Utah,  was  christened  on  March  31  at 
a  ceremony  held  on  Changxing  Island 
in  Shanghai.  The  vessel  was  named 
by  Sponsor  Mrs.  Nancy  Hale  who  was 
joined  by  her  husband  and  our  Guest  of 
Honour  Mr.  Val  Hale,  Executive  Director 
of  Utah  Governor’s  Office  of  Economic 
Development.

2

O O C L   p l a c e d   a n   o r d e r   f o r   t h e 
construction  of  six  20,000  TEU  class 
vessels with Samsung Heavy Industries in 
Korea to strengthen fleet competitiveness.

3

april
OOCL  appointed  ‘Orient  Overseas 
Cargo  Line  Co.’  (OSAU)  as  the  new 
agent  in  Saudi  Arabia  to  offer  a 
variety  of  liner  services  and  provide 
a  vital  link  to  world  trade,  bridging 
Middle East-Gulf and China markets 
and beyond.

OOCL (Myanmar) Limited (OMMR) 
was  established  in  Myanmar  on 
April  1  to  provide  a  comprehensive 
liner  service  network  to  the  growing 
market in the country.

OOCL  became  a  signatory  of  the 
Shenzhen  Port  Green  Convention 
that  encourages  ocean  going  vessels 
to voluntarily use fuel with a sulphur 
content  of  less  than  0.5%  when 
berthed  at  the  participating  ports  in 
Shenzhen.

May  4 5 6
O O C L  prou d ly  re c e ive d  t he  2 0 1 4 
Hong  Kong  Awards  for  Environmental 
Excellence  Gold  Award  in  the  Transport 
and  Logistics  Sector  category  from  the 
Honourable  Mr.  C.  Y.  Leung,  Chief 
Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region.  The  Award 
recognizes  O O CL’s  commitment  to 
achieving  environmental  objectives 
through  the  entire  organization  such  as 
initiatives  taken  to  sustain  progressive 
e nv i ron m e nt a l  i mprove m e nt s  an d 
working  with  partner  organizations  to 
establish  synergies  to  adopting  greener 
business models and operations.

OOCL’s subsidiary Long Beach Container 
Terminal  (LBCT)  was  honoured  by 
California’s  leading  environmental 
advocacy  group  Coalition  for  Clean 

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

3

Significant events – 20154

5

Air  (CCA)  with  their  top  award  for 
environmental  stewardship.    The  award 
recognizes  LBCT’s  efforts  on  the  Middle 
Harbor  Redevelopment  Project  that 
will  transform  two  antiquated  terminal 
facilities  into  the  one  of  the  most 
competitive,  environmentally-friendly 
and technologically-advanced terminal in 
the United States.

June  7
OOCL  was  voted  the  ‘Best  Shipping  Line  –  Transpacific’  by  Asia  Cargo  News  readers 
and  was  awarded  with  the  title  at  the  2015  Asia  Freight,  Logistics  and  Supply  Chain 
Awards (AFLAS) ceremony in Hong Kong on June 24.

OOCL  was  accredited  by  Lloyd’s  Register,  an  independent  business  assurance  service 
provider,  for  environmental  data  integrity  and  achieving  dual  reporting  standards 
through  the  use  of  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  (CCWG)  and  ISO  14064-1:2006 
verification tools.

OOCL  Logistics  was  commissioned  to  manage  the  supply  chain  of  a  landmark  energy 
and  infrastructure  project  launched  by  China  and  Pakistan  towards  the  establishment 
of  a  China-Pakistan  Economic  Corridor  to  further  promote  trade  between  the  two 
countries.

OOCL  Logistics  sets  up  a  strategic  multi-block  logistics  centre  in  the  East  Zone  of 
Guangzhou  Economic  &  Technological  Development  District  to  cater  for  growth  and 
provide quality logistics services in the booming e-commerce market in the region. The 
new  logistics  center  will  be  operational  by  January  2016  and  is  in  close  proximity  of 
the  ports  of  Guangzhou  and  Shenzhen  West  and  well  connected  to  the  road  networks 
covering South-West and Central China.

July
C a r g o S m a r t   a n n o u n c e d   t h e 
launch  of  Big  Schedules,  a  new 
and  powerful  search  engine  that 
leverages  Big  Data  to  provide  best-
in-class  sailing  schedule  information 
for  shippers  and  logistics  service 
providers  who  want  deeper  insights 
into  their  shipment  planning  to 
improve  operational  efficiency  and 
management.

7

august  8 9
Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  and  its  subsidiaries  announced  a  profit 
attributable to equity holders of US$238.6 million for the six-month period ended June 
30, 2015, compared with US$181.3 million for the same period in 2014 in its interim 
results announcement. 
The  m.v.  OOCL  Genoa  was  christened  at  a  ceremony  held  on  Changxing  Island  in 
Shanghai  on  August  26  and  was  named  by  Sponsor  Mrs.  Tamiko  Onaka,  wife  of  Mr. 
Koichi  Onaka,  Managing  Executive  Officer  of  Sumitomo  Mitsui  Trust  Bank,  Japan 
in  the  presence  of  our  Guest  of  Honour,  Mr.  Hisanaga  Tanimura,  CEO  of  Financial 
Products Group Co., Ltd.

6

8

4

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Significant events – 2015OOCL  received  the  2015  Singapore 
Environmental  Achievement  Award 
(Regional)  (SEAA)  at  a  ceremony  held  by 
the Singapore Environment Council (SEC) 
that  honours  outstanding  organizations 
a n d   c o m p a n i e s   f o r   t h e i r   o v e r a l l 
environmental  stewardship,  management 
and performance as well as leadership and 
innovation in sustainability.

September
On  S eptemb er  12,  C argoSmar t 
o r g a n i z e d   a   “ B i g   D a t a ,   B i g 
Opportunities”  Conference  at  the 
Hong Kong Science Park that attracted 
more  than  500  participants  from 
the  local  community  to  the  event, 
showcasing  CargoSmart’s  cloud-based 
big  data  analytics  capabilities  while 
encouraging the younger generation to 
contribute  and  learn  more  about  the 
shipping industry.

9

october  10 11 12
OOCL received the Asian Responsible Business Leadership Award for “Environmental 
Sustainability  –  Environmental  Leadership”  and  the  Asian  Green  Future  Leadership 
Award for “Best Green Employee Engagement” organized by the Asian Confederation 
of Businesses and CMO Asia in Dubai.

OOCL  received  the  final  8,888  TEU 
class  containership,  the  m.v.  OOCL 
Ho  Chi  Minh  City,  in  the  line  of  eight 
ordered  from  the  Hudong-Zhonghua 
Shipbuilding  shipyard  at  a  christening 
ceremony  held  on  Changxing  Island  in 
Shanghai  on  October  29.  OOCL  was 
honoured  to  have  the  chairlady  of  Nine 
Dragons  Paper  Group  Ms.  Cheung  Yan 
as  Sponsor,  who  gave  her  blessings  to 
the vessel and crew.

12

November
To  further  strengthen  and  broaden 
its  footprint  in  e-commerce,  OOCL 
Logistics  collaborates  with  Alibaba 
G r o u p   t o   p r o v i d e   L e s s - t h a n -
Container-Load  (LCL)  transport 
services from China to USA, Canada, 
Australia, Japan and the Netherlands.

December
O n   D e c e m b e r   3 1 ,   t h e   G r o u p 
announced  the  re-designation  of  Mr. 
Alan Tung as Chief Financial Officer 
with effect from January 1, 2016.

10

11

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

5

Significant events – 2015“ 2016 has so far been characterised by great uncertainty. 
We believe that our longstanding and consistent approach 
to yield and cost management will position us well to face 
the challenges of the coming year.”

Tung Chee Chen
Chairman and CEO

6

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Chairman’s letterAt  t he  st ar t  of  2015,  cont ainer  shipping 

attributable to shareholders for 2015 of US$283.9 

companies  enjoyed  unforeseen  conditions  that 

million  (2014:  US$270.5  million),  with  2015 

were,  almost  without  exception,  positive.  For 

earnings  per  ordinary  share  of  US45.4  cents 

those  few  months,  substantially  lower  fuel  costs 

(2014: US43.2 cents).

and  gains  in  momentum  in  the  US  recovery 

drove  industry-wide  results  that  were  better  than 

The Board of Directors recommends the payment 

anticipated.

of  a  final  ordinary  dividend  of  US1.85  cents 

(HK$0.145) per share to shareholders for 2015.

Unfortunately,  the  economic  context  became 

increasingly  complicated  as  the  year  progressed. 

As  for  2016,  the  first  quarter  has  so  far  been 

The  fall  in  oil  prices  led  to  a  reduction  in 

characterised  by  great  uncertainty.  The  IMF 

energy-related  capital  expenditure,  and  to 

forecast  for  global  economic  growth  has  been 

some  producers  bordering  on  default.  Trade 

reduced.  The  US  economic  recovery  seems  to 

growth  was  limited,  and  the  Fed  was  signalling 

be  solid,  but  not  spectacular,  and  continues  to 

(and  eventually  implemented)  a  start  to  the 

be  influenced  by  external  factors.  Both  Japanese 

normalisation  of  interest  rates.  The  second  half 

and  European  growth  levels  are  low,  with  few 

of  the  year  saw  retail  sales  stagnating  further, 

predicting  with  any  confidence  that  the  corner 

thereby reducing imports from Asia.

will  be  turned  in  2016.  Chinese  growth  has 

continued  to  slow,  presenting  challenges  to 

By  the  end  of  the  year,  the  worsening  imbalance 

emerging  market  and  commodity  economies. 

in  supply  and  demand,  driven  by  large  amounts 

A  number  of  central  banks  are  entering  into 

of  new  tonnage  being  introduced  at  a  time  of 

uncharted territory by imposing negative interest 

lacklustre  volume  growth  in  many  trades  and 

rates.  Even  if  at  a  lower  rate  than  in  2015,  new 

even  shrinkage  in  others  was  having  a  dramatic 

shipping capacity continues to be introduced.

effect. Capacity had started to be taken out of the 

market in response to slower demand growth, and 

In  this  environment,  it  is  entirely  conceivable 

having  witnessed  a  substantial  fall  in  rates,  lines 

that  freight  rates  might  fall  even  further  in  some 

were forced to surrender all of (or more than) the 

trades,  to  a  point  where  liner  operators,  facing 

benefit of lower fuel prices to their customers.

poor  market  demand,  and  in  order  to  reduce  the 

magnitude  of  losses,  have  to  reduce  further  their 

Against  this  uns ettled  background,  I  am 

deployed capacity.

pleased  to  report  that  OOIL  generated  a  profit 

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

7

Chairman’s LetterTo  face  the  challenges  of  the  market,  our 

technology, which enables us to drive the highest 

consistent  approach  over  many  years  has  been 

levels  of  cost  efficiency.  The  group  remains 

to  drive  cost  efficiency  and  to  find  new  ways  to 

committed  to  investing  in  IT,  and  to  continuing 

reduce our own operating costs.

to  enhance  the  capabilities  that  our  systems  give 

us  in  operational  efficiency,  yield  management, 

Scale  will  continue  to  be  a  key  driver  of 

customer  interaction  and  shipment  transparency. 

sustainability  in  the  industry.  A  key  part  of  how 

We continue to explore new and innovative ways 

OOCL  achieves  scale  is  through  having  the  right 

to  improve  and  upgrade  our  systems,  including 

fleet,  with  modern  and  fuel  efficient  vessels  built 

using  for ward-looking  data  and  predictive 

to  the  right  size  and  specifications,  driving  unit 

analytics, which should enable us to make further 

cost  efficiency  even  at  today’s  lower  fuel  prices. 

progress in efficiency and profitability.

As  announced  in  April  2015  and  reported  at  the 

half  year,  the  group  has  ordered  six  20,000  TEU 

We   e x p e c t   t h a t   o u r   M i d d l e   H a r b o r 

class  vessels  from  Samsung  Heavy  Industries  to 

Redevelopment  Project  in  California  will  enter 

be  delivered  in  2017.  We  are  delighted  with  the 

into  the  first  phase  of  its  operation  in  2016. 

better-than-expected  efficiency  gains  achieved 

While  the  final  completion  of  the  project  is  not 

through our 13,208 TEU vessels replacing smaller 

scheduled to occur until 2020, we fully anticipate 

vessels  on  certain  routes,  and  look  forward  to 

that even from 2016 we will start to reap benefits 

enhancing these benefits of scale further with our 

from  this  large  capital  investment.  Our  new 

larger vessels, as they enter into service in 2017.

terminal  will  be  able  to  ensure  the  highest 

levels  not  only  of  operational  efficiency  but  of 

OOCL  has  participated  in  alliances,  in  one 

environmental friendliness and sustainability.

form  or  another,  for  decades.  We  continue  to 

believe  that  alliance  structures  are  an  important 

OOCL  Logistics  continues  to  grow  its  volumes 

means  of  achieving  scale  and  enhancing  product 

and  profitability,  and  we  remain  committed  to 

quality.  OOCL  continuously  seeks  to  identify 

building  up  our  activities  in  this  sphere.  Our 

opportunities  for  additional  efficiencies  and 

logistics  business  shares  the  OOCL  philosophy 

savings through these arrangements.

of  providing  excellent  service  to  our  customers, 

and  of  doing  so  by  providing  a  chosen  range 

One  of  the  major  forces  behind  our  ability  to 

of  ser vices  in  targeted  markets  and  with 

navigate  the  challenging  waters  of  container 

specific  customer  bases  that  will  together  drive 

shipping  is  our  industry-leading  information 

profitability and growth for our shareholders.

8

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

Chairman’s LetterA feature of our group has for many years been a 

robust  and  conservative  balance  sheet.  While  we 

have  appetite  to  invest  and  to  grow,  and  thereby 

to  enhance  shareholder  returns,  we  intend  to 

maintain  a  balance  sheet  that  enables  us  to 

withstand  the  volatility  and  cyclicality  of  our 

industry.

OOCL  has  a  long  track  record  of  outperforming 

the  market,  in  both  up  and  down  cycles. 

Through  our  continued  efforts  in  yield  and  cost 

management,  as  well  in  operational  efficiency 

and  customer  focus,  the  Group  continues  to  be 

an  industry  leader.  Furthermore,  we  continue  to 

be  one  of  the  few  carriers  with  a  history  of  solid 

financial performance as well as a robust balance 

sheet.

We  believe  that  we  are  well  positioned  to  face 

the coming challenging year, as well as to benefit 

from  the  up  cycle  when  it  comes.  We  look 

forward  to  furthering  our  position  as  one  of  the 

leading carriers in the industry.

C C tung

Chairman

Hong Kong, 4th March 2016

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

9

Chairman’s Letter“ OOCL has a long track record of outperforming 
the market, in both up and down cycles.  
Through our continued efforts in yield and cost 
management, as well in operational efficiency 
and customer focus, the Group continues to be 
an industry leader.”

10 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Operations ReviewCoNtaiNer traNSport aND loGiStiCS

Expectations for 2015 in the container shipping industry had been 
cautious. The known introduction of significant amounts of new 
capacity  against  an  environment  of  less  than  stellar  global  trade 
growth  had  meant  that  no-one  was  forecasting  that  2015  would 
produce especially strong results.

However,  the  year  started  very  well,  and  for  its  first  few  months 
seemed  only  to  improve.  East  West  trade  volumes  held  up,  the 
freight  rate  environment  was  steady,  and  shipyards  had  not 
yet  delivered  the  1.6  million  TEU  of  new  capacity  that  would 
drive  a  gross  increase  of  8.5%  in  fleet  capacity  later  in  the  year. 
The  congestion  seen  in  the  West  Coast  of  the  US  resulted  in 
capacity being drawn to the East Coast to serve shippers seeking 
alternative  solutions,  thereby  absorbing  what  might  otherwise 
have  risked  being  surplus.  Furthermore,  fuel  prices  were 
continuing to plummet. OOCL’s average fuel cost per metric ton 
in  2014  had  been  US$572,  whereas  during  the  first  quarter  of 
2015, the spot price for Singapore 380 Bunker Fuel was hovering 
around the US$300 mark.

Financial results announced for the half year showed that OOCL 
along  with  almost  all  of  its  peers  had  enjoyed  a  successful  start 
to  the  year.  By  the  middle  of  the  year,  trends  had  started  to 
appear  that  eventually  developed  into  the  very  different  market 
environment of the second half.

As summer progressed, it became clear that growth in European 
trade  was  persistently  negative.  Trade  growth  to  the  US  was 
positive and indeed robust, even if not spectacular. The picture in 
the Intra-Asia trade was as varied as the different markets within 
the  region,  but  overall  the  growth  was  present,  but  weak.  Cargo 
growth  between  China  and  South  East  Asia  remained  strong, 
while traffic in other parts of Asia was mostly flat. Traffic to the 
Middle  East,  which  had  been  convincingly  positive  in  the  first 
half,  slowed  down  markedly  in  the  second  half.  Volumes  to  the 
Indian sub-continent continued to grow throughout the year.

The  long-expected  capacity  growth  had  started  to  weigh  heavily 
on the market by mid-year. Not only in Asia Europe, where most 
of  the  over  800,000  TEU  of  new  container  ships  of  over  10,000 
TEU  were  being  introduced,  but  also  in  other  trades,  where 
cascading was bringing in additional capacity.

Low  fuel  costs,  while  most  definitely  overall  a  positive  for  the 
group, also contributed to challenges in the industry in the second 
half.  New  services  could  be  introduced  by  competitors  with 
lower cost risk, thereby enabling them to add capacity to already 
well  supplied  markets.  Low  vessel  charter  rates  exacerbated  this 
effect.  The  industry  saw  several  examples  of  new  services  being 
introduced,  only  for  these  to  be  cut  back  later  in  the  year,  when 
cargo growth failed to match the increase in capacity.

Furthermore, lower fuel prices meant that operators of older, less 
fuel-efficient  vessels  could  continue  to  operate  them  without  it 
being  financially  prohibitive  –  this,  along  with  low  steel  prices, 
will likely have contributed to the low level of fleet scrapping seen 
during 2015.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

11

Operations ReviewCongestion  and  disruption  that  had  particularly  affected  the 
network  towards  the  end  of  2014  began  to  clear  up  during  the 
first  months  of  2015.  While  there  were  instances  of  congestion 
towards  the  end  of  the  year,  the  impact  was  far  more  localised, 
and  certainly  not  on  the  scale  that  was  seen  in  2014,  where  at 
different times disruption had been seen in Europe, Asia and on 
the US West Coast.

OOCL operates alongside Hapag-Lloyd, NYK, Mitsui OSK Lines, 
Hyundai  Merchant  Marine  and  APL  in  the  G6  alliance.  2015 
saw  the  first  full  year  of  operation  of  the  G6  as  a  global  East-
West  alliance,  along  with  impressive  improvements  in  alliance 
operational performance, assisted by the G6’s Joint Service Centre 
in Singapore.

One  notable  development  during  2015  has  been  increasing 
trade  imbalance.  For  example,  the  Trans-Atlantic  trade  has  for 
many  years  been  balanced  between  eastbound  and  westbound 
cargos. As the growth rates of the European and North American 
economies have diverged, as well of course as their currencies, we 
have seen higher volumes of westbound cargo. Within the Intra-
Asia  trade,  the  strength  of  the  US  Dollar  against  a  number  of 
Asian currencies, and the movements in the RMB, have increased 
southbound  trade  and  put  pressure  on  northbound.  Managing 

the effect of such imbalances is a challenge for container shipping 
companies, but one for which OOCL is well prepared.

At  the  start  of  2015,  no-one  expected  just  how  positive  the 
first  few  months  would  be.  However,  despite  the  unanticipated 
strength  of  the  opening  months  of  the  year,  OOCL  remained 
cautious throughout the first half, with this caution being shown 
to be justified as the year drew to a close.

For the full year 2015, OOCL’s liftings were essentially flat, with a 
drop in revenue, and of revenue per TEU of 10%. This reflects the 
challenging environment described above, particularly as the very 
tough second half took hold.

In spite of this, OOCL remained profitable throughout the reporting 
period. This was due to a variety of reasons, including our consistent 
efforts to maintain close attention to cost management, for example 
our ability to generate savings not simply by enjoying the same fall 
in fuel prices as everyone else but by ensuring maximum efficiency 
in  fuel  consumption  per  TEU.  The  combination  of  this  long-
established  approach  with  our  state-of-the-art  IT  system,  which 
strengthens  operational  performance  as  well  as  facilitating  the  best 
yield  management  and  other  financial  decisions,  has  enabled  us  to 
resist the headwinds of the current situation.

ooCl liner

Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4

Total

12 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

teU

(2.5%)
(2.1%)
1.9%
2.0%

(0.2%)

Growth in 2015
revenue

revenue/teU

(3.2%)
(9.3%)
(12.2%)
(15.6%)

(10.1%)

(0.7%)
(7.4%)
(13.8%)
(17.3%)

(10.0%)

Operations Review 
 
 
 
Trade

Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia/Australasia

Total

liftiNG (’000 teU)

reVeNUe (US$ million)

2015

1,318
894
366
2,998

5,576

2014

1,289
980
385
2,932

5,586

Variance

2.2%
(8.8%)
(4.9%)
2.3%

(0.2%)

2015

1,908
884
569
1,858

5,219

2014

1,973
1,173
600
2,061

5,807

Variance

(3.3%)
(24.6%)
(5.2%)
(9.8%)

(10.1%)

intra-asia and australasia – The many lanes that make up the 
Intra-Asia  and  Australasian  trades  performed  very  differently. 
However,  additional  capacity  and  cascading  of  larger  vessels 
from other trades has created challenging conditions at a time 
when growth is slower in many countries, and even shrinking 
in  others.  The  low  fuel  price  environment  has  led  not  only  to 
more  services  being  introduced,  but  to  an  increase  in  direct 
services  as  opposed  to  transhipment.  OOCL  was  quick  to 
adapt  to  these  changes,  for  example  reworking  its  Japanese 
network in order to improve shipping times, transit times and 
schedule reliability. The drop in value of the Australian Dollar, 
and the impact of the fall in commodity prices, are thought to 
have  contributed  to  a  continuing  environment  of  largely  flat 
growth  in  cargo  to  Australia,  although  an  improved  supply 
and demand balance following service changes could generate 
some improvement.

MaJor CUStoMerS aND SUpplierS

Approximately  7.5%  and  20.1%  of  the  Group’s  total 
expenditure  on  purchases  of  goods  and  services  for  the 
year  are  attributable  to  the  largest  supplier  and  five  largest 
suppliers respectively. 

Approximately 1.5% and 5.2% of the Group’s total reported 
revenues for the year are attributable to the largest customer 
and five largest customers respectively.

The  Group  has  entered  into  slot  sharing  arrangements 
with other container shipping companies. The receipts and 
payments  from  slot  sharing  arrangements  have  not  been 
included in determining the major customers and suppliers 
since  it  would  be  misleading  to  do  so  as  the  receipts  and 
payments  are  in  respect  of  sharing  arrangements  for  the 
utilisation of vessel space.

No director or any of his associates holds any equity interest 
in the suppliers or customers included above.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

13

trans-pacific  –  While  the  global  expectation  at  the  start  of 
2015 was cautious, there was more optimism in the outlook for 
the  eastbound  Trans-Pacific  trade.  The  US  recovery  appeared 
to  be  solid,  and  the  rate  environment  was  encouraging. 
Disruption  in  the  West  Coast  ports  led  to  significant  volumes 
of cargo shifting to the East Coast, causing a short-term spike 
in East Coast rates. Much of that cargo pattern has returned to 
the West Coast, but its return co-incided with the introduction 
of  additional  capacity  into  the  market  and  with  a  gradual 
decrease  in  the  rate  of  cargo  growth.  As  a  result,  even  if  the 
rate environment appears sustainable, there was no significant 
“peak  season”  to  the  West  Coast  in  2015,  and  performance 
remained steady. Westbound volumes and rates lost some pace 
as the year progressed, affected both by the strength of the US 
Dollar and by reductions in imports to Asia.

asia-europe  –  For  the  industry  as  a  whole,  Asia-Europe  has 
been one of the best performing trades in recent years. Its very 
different  performance  this  year  has  been  the  main  news  story 
of container shipping in recent months. Volume growth was at 
best weak, with some countries performing better than others, 
but  to  Europe  overall  was  negative.  The  impact  of  the  fall  in 
the Euro, the after effects of high import volumes followed by 
low  growth,  and  the  economic  implications  of  sanctions  on 
Russia hurt demand, which was far from sufficient to keep up 
with  the  growth  on  the  supply  side.  Significant  withdrawals 
of  tonnage  towards  the  end  of  the  year  made  some  progress 
in  achieving  a  certain  level  of  improvement,  but  the  trade 
remained challenged at year end.

trans-atlantic  –  The  Trans-Atlantic  trade  performed  steadily 
throughout  the  year,  but  with  a  noticeable  increase  in  trade 
imbalance. Continuing the trend of 2014, imports into the US 
from  Europe  grew  while  trade  heading  in  the  other  direction 
contracted.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MariNe terMiNalS

Middle Harbor redevelopment project

During  2015,  OOCL  operated  two  container  terminals: 
the  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  in  California  and  the 
Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in  Taiwan,  with  a  total 
combined  throughput  of  2.3  million  TEU,  representing  a 
year  over  year  increase  of  about  2.7%.  Tianjin  Port  Alliance 
International  Container  Terminal  Co.,  Ltd.  and  Ningbo 
Yuandong  Terminal  Ltd.,  where  OOCL  has  a  20%  interest  in 
each, together handled about 4.9 million TEU, a 2.8% increase 
over 2014.

OOCL and its subsidiary LBCT continue to work with the Port 
of  Long  Beach  (POLB)  on  the  Middle  Harbor  Redevelopment 
Project  (MHRP)  in  Long  Beach,  California.  The  project  is  to 
be  developed  in  three  phases.  Extensive  equipment  testing, 
systems development and professional training were conducted 
during 2015.

As  at  the  time  of  writing,  this  process  of  testing  continues. 
An  important  step  in  the  testing  procedure  has  been  that  the 
m.v  OOCL  America  has  been  set  to  Long  Beach  in  order  to 
participate in end-to-end testing with a real vessel in place.

We  expect  that  the  first  phase  of  our  new  terminal  will 
become  fully  operational  in  the  middle  of  2016.  This  will  be 
a  hugely  significant  milestone  for  the  group,  and  will  bring 
into  existence  one  of  the  most  operationally  efficient  and 
environmentally  friendly  port  terminals  anywhere  in  the 
world.

Our  expanded  new  terminal  at  Long  Beach  will,  over  time, 
drive  more  and  more  benefit  for  the  group.  This  will  be 
achieved  not  only  by  cost-efficient  handling  of  calls  by  our 
own vessels and those of our alliance partners, but by opening 
up  the  possibility  of  third  party  business  and  therefore 
additional revenue streams.

14 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Operations Reviewlong  Beach  Container  terminal,  llC.  (lBCt 
llC)

Kaohsiung Container terminal (KaoCt)

location:

Long Beach, California, USA

Status of terminal:

Currently  at  98.8  acre,  to  be  expanded  into  a  304  acre,  three 
berth container facility operated under a long-term preferential 
use agreement from the Port of Long Beach.

equipment/facilities:

On  Pier  F:  one  container-vessel  berth;  seven  Post-Panamax 
quayside  container  gantr y  cranes;  five  side  picks;  12 
rubber-tired  gantry  cranes;  75  yard  tractors;  11  top  handlers; 
12 utility forklifts; 56 yard chassis; various pick-up trucks and 
other vehicles and handling equipment.

On  Pier  E:  currently  two  container-vessel  berth;  six 
ship-to-shore  gantry  cranes,  38  automated  stacking  cranes, 
two  rail  yard  cranes,  75  bombcarts,  one  reach  stacker,  one 
combi-lift  straddle  carrier,  40  yard  tractors,  four  heavy  lifts, 
one  fuel  truck,  56  pickup  trucks,  one  tour  bus,  two  shuttle 
buses and two telehandlers.

Building facilities:

13,000 sq ft main office building; 3,200 sq ft marine operations 
building; 9,600 sq ft repair shop.

principal Customers:

APL, Hapag Lloyd, HMM, MOL, NYK and OOCL.

location:

Pier 65 and 66 Kaohsiung Harbour, Kaohsiung, Taiwan

Status of terminal:

As  one  of  the  original  container  facilities  in  the  Kaohsiung 
Harbour,  the  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  has  deep-water 
berths  of  14.5  meters  and  the  entire  facility  has  been 
modernized  since  2002  and  upgraded  in  2012  with  the  ability 
to  handle  two  10,000-TEU  vessels  at  the  same  time  or  one 
13,000, one 8000 TEU vessel.

equipment/facilities:

Two  container-vessel  berths  (760  meters  long)  on  a  total  of 
approximately  63.6  acres  operating  24-hour,  7-days  a  week 
basis  for  vessel  and  gate  activities:  Six  Post-Panamax  quay 
cranes  including  four  with  19  rows  and  two  with  22  rows  of 
twin  20 ft  lifting  capacity; 20  rail-mounted gantry cranes; five 
empty stackers and various shipside handling equipment.

To  further  enhance  services  and  improve  efficiency,  two 
terminal  upgrade  projects  were  carried  out  which  included 
the  completion  of  an  expansion  of  the  container  storage 
area  ZONE  6  by  1,500  TEU  in  January  2014  and  an  empty 
storage  area  ZONE  7  by  4,000  TEU  in  April  2015.  After  the 
completion  of  these  projects,  the  rail-mounted  gantry  cranes 
will be able to handle 1.5 million TEU per annum and carbon 
emission will be further reduced.

Building facilities (approximate area):

2,948 sqm office building, 7,000 sqm container freight station, 
720 sqm maintenance building.

principal Customers:

ANL,  APL,  COSCO,  CSCL,  EMC,  HPL,  HYMM,  IRISL, 
MOSK,  NYK,  OOCL,  PIL,  WHL,  YML,  ZIM  and  various 
feeder operators.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

15

Operations ReviewSHip operatioNS
As at 31st December, 2015, OOCL fleet composition was as follows:

fleet
Owned/
  Long Term Chartered/
  Operating Lease
Short Term Chartered
Chartered Out

Operating Capacity

No. of Vessels

teU Capacity

67
40
(4)

103

496,688
117,565
(52,832)

561,421

During  the  year  of  2015,  the  Group  took  delivery  of  four 
SX  class  8,888  TEU  new  vessels  from  Hudong-Zhonghua 
Shipbuilding  (Group)  Co.,  Ltd  in  China.  They  are  also  the  last 
four vessels for the series.

On  31st  March,  2015,  orders  for  six  20,000  TEU  class  vessels 
were  placed  with  Samsung  Heavy  Industries  Co.,  Ltd.  in  South 
Korea for delivery in year 2017.

To optimise fleet utilisation, two 11-year old 8,063 TEU SX-class 
vessels  were  sold  and  chartered  back  for  a  three-year  period 
during the year.

As of the end of 2015, OOCL owned vessels with an average age 
of 6.64 years and an average size of 7,548 TEU.

Bunker Saving
The  fall  in  market  fuel  price  enabled  us  to  achieve  very 
significant bunker cost savings throughout the year.

In  accordance  with  the  new  MARPOL  Annex  VI  ultra-low 
sulphur  fuel  regulations  (in  force  as  from  1st  January,  2015), 
our  vessels  are  required  to  comply  with  0.1%  sulphur  content 

regulations  in  the  designated  Sulphur  Emission  Control  Areas 
(SECAs). This has led to an increase in the proportion of our fuel 
consumption that is made up of higher grade and lower polluting 
fuel. The cost impact of this is already included in our numbers.

We  will  retain  our  dedicated  focus  on  a  range  of  efficiency 
measures in order to ensure the highest levels of fuel efficiency. 
For example, optimal routing, carefully calculated sailing speeds, 
efficient  use  of  shaft  generators,  carrying  minimum  ballast  and 
employing optimal trim.

Beyond  ensuring  that  we  operate  a  modern  and  efficient  fleet, 
an  important  success  factor  in  managing  our  fuel  cost  is  the 
expertise  and  dedication  of  our  staff,  who  use  their  experience 
not  only  to  comply  with  existing  guidelines  but  to  ensure  that 
new  opportunities  to  achieve  savings  are  fully  explored  and, 
where appropriate, implemented.

environmental protection
We  remain  very  supportive  of  international  efforts  to  measure 
and  control  shipboard  emissions.  In  2015,  we  maintained  an 
average  sulphur  content  of  2.32%  in  our  bunker  consumption 
which  compares  favourably  with  the  International  Maritime 
Organization (IMO) prescribed standard of 3.5%. Aside from the 
installation  of  Alternative  Maritime  Power  (AMP)  system  that 
allows  shore-based  power  alternatives,  our  newbuildings  have 
been equipped with Ballast Water Treatment systems to effectively 
treat ballast water that is in line with our environmental policy. A 
retrofit  program  is  also  underway  to  allow  some  of  our  existing 
vessels to improve fuel efficiency and so to reduce emissions.

In addition to regulatory compliance, we have been participating 
in  various  voluntary  programs  including  the  Green  Flag 
Program  at  the  Port  of  Long  Beach,  Vessel  Speed  Reduction 
Program  at  the  Port  of  Los  Angeles,  and  the  Shenzhen  Port 
Green  Convention  initiated  by  the  Shenzhen  Transportation 
Commission (SZMOT) in China.

16 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Operations ReviewFor  our  international  supply  chain  business,  we  have 
improved  standardisation  of  our  service  quality  globally  to 
each  customer.  For  import  and  export  business,  we  expanded 
our  carrier  portfolio  and  network,  in  order  to  be  able  to 
offer  customers  one-stop-shop  total  solutions  with  better 
service  coverage  and  frequency,  and  focused  on  project  cargo 
transportation.  In  terms  of  domestic  logistics,  we  further 
developed  our  cold  chain  logistics  business,  streamlined  Less-
Than-Truck-Load  (LTL)  services,  and  moved  deeper  into  the 
transportation  services  and  warehouse  markets  of  second  and 
third tier cities in China and other parts of Asia.

By leveraging on our superior IT capabilities and management 
expertise,  our  value-added  services  are  integrated  into  our 
customers’  supply  chain  operations,  and  assist  them  in 
enhancing their productivity and organisational efficiency.

loGiStiCS

The gross profit margin achieved by OOCL Logistics improved 
by  7.4%,  which  can  be  attributed  to  our  approach  to  select 
the  right  business  mix  in  the  right  locations  and  with  the 
right  customers.  Specifically,  we  have  made  this  progress  by 
focusing more on higher value added business in international 
supply  chain  management  services  and  import  and  export 
services, and deselecting a certain proportion of non-profitable 
domestic logistics business in China.

The  growth  in  profitability  came  at  the  expense  of  a  2.9% 
revenue  decrease,  reflecting  the  reduced  emphasis  on  more 
commoditised domestic logistics business.

In  addition  to  selecting  the  right  business  targets,  our  yield 
management  has  assisted  by  further  enhanced  levels  of 
operational productivity, cost control and asset efficiency.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

17

Operations ReviewOperations.  Advances  in  this  area  will  assist  carriers  to 
monitor  fuel  efficiency  and  other  key  performance  metrics 
of vessels, and to act on the information garnered.

CargoSmart  has  also  developed  the  technology  to  allow 
customers to access data on multiple-carrier shipments. The 
group’s  OOCL.com  is  the  first  website  to  implement  this 
customer-friendly innovation.

Furthermore,  CargoSmart  provides  a  platform  solution  for 
G6 Alliance Slot Cost Allocation and Settlement (ASM) and 
Alliance Vessel Schedule Maintenance (VSM).

iNforMatioN teCHNoloGY

The  Group  continues  to  invest  in  information  technology, 
in order to generate a sustainable competitive advantage for 
our activities.

By  the  end  2015,  the  global  implementation  of  the  IRIS-4 
Liner enterprise system had started to reach its final phases. 
We  expect  that  its  forerunner,  the  IRIS-2  system,  will  be 
shutdown during 2016.

In  order  to  reach  “Software  Defined”  grade,  and  to  attain 
even  greater  levels  of  flexibility  and  elasticity  to  adapt  to 
evolving  business  needs,  we  began  a  progamme  to  rebuild 
our Data Centre and International Network infrastructure.

Through  multiple  experiments  in  three  countries  in  2015, 
the  first  iteration  of  an  Intelligent  Assembly  Line  for  Bill  of 
Lading production was commissioned, delivering high levels 
of  service  and  quality  assurance.  Further  opportunities  to 
expand  the  scope  of  the  use  of  Intelligent  Assembly  Lines 
will  be  explored  in  2016,  opening  up  the  possibility  of 
ongoing efficiency and cost gains.

The  Group’s  subsidiary,  CargoSmart,  a  standalone  third 
party  business  platform,  is  expanding  the  concept  of 
the  “Internet  of  Things”  to  cover  areas  such  as  Marine 

18 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Operations ReviewpropertY

Based on an independent valuation as at 31st December 2015, 
Wall  Street  Plaza  was  valued  upwards  by  US$20  million, 
reflecting  an  assessed  market  value  of  US$200  million.  After 
offsetting a total of US$0.5 million improvement works on the 
building  in  2015,  the  net  fair  value  gain  for  2015  has  come  to 
US$19.5 million.

As  at  31st  December  2014,  Wall  Street  Plaza  was  valued  at 
US$180 million with a net fair value gain of US$9.7 million in 
2014.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

19

Operations Review“ The Group is dedicated to promoting sustainable 
practices in our supply chain. We encourage 
sustainable economic development through 
innovative environmental care measures.”

20 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Corporate ResponsibilityCorporate ResponsibilityThe Group prides itself upon being a responsible 
corporate citizen and it employs the highest 
standards of business ethics in all that it does. 
Headed by a senior management Steering 
Committee and a Global Security, Safety 
and Environment Care Officer, the Group 
embraces the core values of Corporate Social 
Responsibility at all levels.

The  Group  places  the  utmost  importance  on  environmental 
care  and  community  support.  Despite  the  current  difficult 
economic  environment,  we  must  continue  to  address  the 
long-term  threat  of  climate  change.  We  strive  to  play  our  part 
in  tackling  this  global  problem  through  engagement  with 
organisations  such  as  the  Business  Environment  Council, 
the  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  and  the  World  Wildlife 
Fund.  Throughout  the  year,  the  Group  has  won  awards  and 
accolades for its environmental performance, and OOIL Group 
employees  around  the  world  have  been  actively  supporting 
their  local  communities  through  various  environmental 
initiatives.

The  Group  is  dedicated  to  promoting  sustainable  practices 
into our supply chain. Our Corporate Sustainable Procurement 
Policy  has  been  implemented  in  every  aspect  of  our  business 
and at every stage of the supply chain. For example, under our 
vendor  and  supplier  selection  mechanism,  a  self  assessment 
of  the  potential  contractor  must  be  completed  to  confirm 
their  compliance  to  our  Safety,  Security,  Environmental  and 
Social  Guidelines,  where  on-site  verification  of  their  facilities 
may  be  conducted  if  deemed  necessary.    Once  compliance  is 
confirmed  we  would  review  and  work  with  our  vendors  to 
ensure compliance levels are maintained.

In  addition,  the  OOCL  Carbon  Calculator  is  designed  to 
assist  OOCL  customers  measure  CO2  emissions  in  their 
supply  chains.  The  scope  of  the  calculator  spans  across 
vessels,  trucks,  feeders,  and  rail  with  over  70,000  port  pairs 
recorded.  OOCL  spearheaded  the  project  in  2010,  partnering 

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

21

Corporate Responsibilityembrace  green  management  and  innovation  and  offering  the 
opportunity to benchmark their environmental performance.

In  this  seventh  annual  award,  1,048  applicants  competed 
in  15  industry  sectors.  In  considering  OOCL  for  the  gold 
standing,  the  Award  recognises  a  company’s  commitment 
and  drive  to  achieving  environmental  objectives  through  the 
entire  organisation.  This  includes  initiatives  taken  to  sustain 
progressive  environmental  improvements  and  working  with 
partner  organisations  to  establish  synergies  to  adopting 
greener business models and operations.

“Class  of  e xcellence”  Wastewi$e  l abel  –  OOCL  also 
received  environmental  recognition  for  our  participation 
and  performance  in  the  Wastewi$e  Label  Scheme  under  the 
Hong  Kong  Awards  for  Environmental  Excellence  (HKAEE) 
program.  Under  the  Scheme,  participants  must  achieve  at  least 
nine  goals  or  more,  covering  at  least  two  of  three  Wastewi$e 
categories in order to be granted with the “Class of Excellence” 
Wastewi$e Label. The three categories include Waste Avoidance 
&  Reduction  Measures,  Collection  and  Recycling  of  Recyclable 
Materials, and Purchase or Manufacture of Recycled Products.

Singapore  environmental  achievement  award  –  OOCL 
received  the  2015  Singapore  Environmental  Achievement 
Award  (Regional)  (SEAA)  at  a  ceremony  held  by  the 
Singapore  Environment  Council’s  (SEC)  20th  Anniversary 

with the Department  of Logistics  and Maritime Studies of the 
Hong  Kong  Polytechnic  University.  The  Calculator  has  been 
checked and verified for its methodology, accuracy and carbon 
footprint  calculations  by  The  American  Bureau  of  Shipping 
(ABS) Consulting.

our environmental initiatives

The Group recognises that businesses must take responsibility 
for  their  industry’s  effects  on  the  environment.  Our  company 
is  dedicated  to  meeting  the  needs  of  the  present  without 
compromising  those  of  the  future.  We  encourage  sustainable 
economic  development  through  innovative  environmental 
care  measures  and  believe  that  by  taking  a  proactive  role  in 
caring for the environment, we can help minimise our carbon 
footprint,  improve  air  quality  and  make  the  world  a  better 
place to live for ourselves and future generations.

We  actively  participate  in  green  programs  and  have  received 
recognition for our achievements and best practices, including:

the  Safety,  Quality  and  environmental  (SQe)  Management 
System  Certificate  –  OOCL  was  the  first  container  shipping 
line  in  the  world  to  have  achieved  the  SQE  certification 
which  consolidates  the  ISM-Code,  ISO  9001  and  ISO  14001 
requirements.

Vessel  Speed  reduction  programs  –  Each  year,  OOCL  has 
been  fully  compliant  to  reducing  vessel  speed  when  entering 
within both 20 and 40 nautical miles of the Port of Long Beach 
and  Port  of  Los  Angeles  harbors.  Our  efforts  have  effectively 
contributed to improving the air quality by reducing emissions 
such as smog forming nitrogen oxides (NOx), diesel particulate 
matter  and  greenhouse  gases.  Port  officials  estimate  that  if  all 
vessels comply with the program, the amount of NOx produced 
by container ships would be reduced by nearly 550 tons a year.

Ballast  Water  Management  program  –  All  container  ships 
discharge  ballast  water,  which  can  contain  organisms  that 
may  be  harmful  to  other  environments.  We  have  a  policy  of 
exchanging  ballast  water  only  in  the  open  sea  (200  nautical 
miles  away  from  the  nearest  coastline)  to  achieve  zero  ballast 
water  exchange  when  berthed  at  the  port.  Although  it  is  not 
mandated  by  the  International  Maritime  Organization  (IMO), 
OOCL’s  new  buildings  are  already  equipped  with  an  IMO 
approved  Ballast  Water  Treatment  System  to  effectively  treat 
ballast water before discharging.

Hong  Kong  awards  for  environmental  excellence  –  Gold 
award  –  OOCL  received  2014  Hong  Kong  Awards  for 
Environmental  Excellence  (HKAEE)  Gold  Award  in  the 
Transport  and  Logistics  Sector  category  on  14th  May  2015. 
The  HKAEE  is  recognised  by  the  community  as  one  of  the 
most  prestigious  and  reputable  environmental  award  schemes 
in  Hong  Kong.  It  encourages  businesses  and  organisations  to 

22 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Corporate ResponsibilityGala  on  26th  August  2015.  Recognised  by  the  community 
as  one  of  the  most  prestigious  and  reputable  environmental 
award  schemes  in  Singapore,  it  was  launched  in  November 
1997  to  honour  outstanding  organizations  and  companies 
for  their  overall  environmental  stewardship,  environmental 
management  and  performance  as  well  as  leadership  and 
innovation in sustainability.

Golden  Globe  tigers  Sustainability  award  –  OOCL  won 
the  ‘Best  Green  Business  Award’  for  Green  Management  & 
Future  Leadership  at  the  Golden  Globe  Tigers  Summit  and 
Awards  2015  event  held  in  Kuala  Lumpur,  Malaysia  on  25th 
March  2015.  The  Golden  Globe  Tigers  Award  is  organised 
by  the  Asian  Confederation  of  Business,  World  CSR,  CMO 
Council  and  CMO  Asia.  The  ‘Green  Management  &  Future 
Leadership’  award  is  for  the  organization  that  participates  in 
environmentally-friendly  or  green  activities  to  ensure  their 
business  activities  adequately  address  current  environmental 
concerns while maintaining a profit.

asian  responsible  Business  leadership  award/asian  Green 
future  leadership  award  –  OOCL  won  two  sustainability 
awards  by  the  Asian  Confederation  of  Businesses  and  CMO 
Asia  on  7th  October  2015  in  Dubai.  Over  2,500  entries  were 
received  from  different  parts  of  the  world.  An  independent 
jury  then  shortlisted  the  entries  and  made  the  final  selection. 
OOCL  won  awards  for  the  Asian  Responsible  Business 
Leadership  Award  for  “Environmental  Sustainability  – 
Environmental  Leadership”  and  the  Asian  Green  Future 
Leadership Award for “Best Green Employee Engagement”.

aSeaN  Corporate  Sustainability  awards  –  OOCL  received 
runner  up  in  two  awards  in  the  categories  of  Sustainability 
Strategy  and  Sustainability  Report  by  the  Academy  for 
Professional  Excellence  (APEX)  Global  at  ASEAN  Corporate 
Sustainability  Summit  on  27th  March  2015,  which  recognised 
our  clear  vision  of  sustainability  strategy  with  designed 
initiatives  with  achieved  objectives;  and  our  transparent 
disclosure through sustainability report.

ooil  becomes  a  ftSe4Good  Global  index  Constituent 
–  The  FTSE4Good  Index  Series  is  one  of  the  world’s  most 
recognised  and  respected  indices  measuring  the  performance 
of  companies  demonstrating  strong  Environmental,  Social 
and  Governance  (ESG)  standards  for  investors  committed  to 
socially responsible investments.

OOIL is honoured to be the first Hong Kong-based enterprise 
in the international transportation and logistics industry to be 
included in the Index. Independently assessed according to the 
Index criteria, OOIL has met all ESG requirements to become 
a constituent of the Index following the December 2015 review, 
an  important  milestone  in  the  company’s  efforts  to  achieving 
long-term sustainability objectives.

Hang  Seng  Corporate  Sustainability  index  –  The  Group  is 
a  founding  constituent  of,  as  well  as  listed  in  the  Hang  Seng 
Corporate Sustainability Index since its establishment in 2010. 
Only  the  top  30  companies  are  listed  in  the  Index  and  they 
are  recognised  to  have  received  the  highest  scores  among  all 
others on aspects including environmental care, social impact, 
and corporate governance.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

23

Corporate ResponsibilityQualship  21  –  Offered  by  the  US  Coast  Guard,  this  program 
recognises  high-quality  ships  for  their  excellent  safety  and 
antipollution  standards  and  encourages  quality  operations. 
Most  of  OOCL’s  vessels  calling  the  US  have  already  been 
Qualship 21 certified since 2004.

environmental  Data  Verification  –  OOCL  completed  its 
environmental  reporting  and  disclosure  assurance  by  using 
both  the  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  (CCWG)  and  ISO 
14064-1  standards  to  certify  the  transparency,  accuracy, 
completeness,  consistency  and  relevance  of  OOCL’s  data 
disclosure  on  vessel  emissions.  OOCL  was  accredited  by  the 
Lloyd’s  Register  Quality  Assurance  (LRQA),  an  independent 
business  assurance  service  provider  based  in  the  United 
Kingdom, after checking not only the carbon dioxide, sulphur 
oxides  and  Greenhouse  Gas  (GHG)  (Scope  1)  emission  levels 
of OOCL vessels, but also extending to the GHG Scope 2 level 
which  is  associated  with  electricity  consumption  of  OOCL’s 
head office in Hong Kong.

The  Group  is  committed  to  reducing  emissions,  promoting 
environmental  care  and  conserving  natural  resources.  We  do 
this in all areas of our business – on land and at sea – from our 
vessels, to our terminals, offices and containers.

our  Vessels  –  The  best  way  to  reduce  harmful  emissions  in 
the shipping industry is to reduce the consumption of fuel. For 
well over a decade OOCL implemented a fuel saving program 
including weather routing systems, slow steaming (addition of 
extra vessels on service loops and travelling at slower speeds), 
minimising  ballast  water  to  help  achieve  a  lighter  vessel  load, 
and  achieving  better  trim  of  ship  draughts  by  good  stowage, 
thereby  burning  less  fuel.  By  taking  these  measures,  we  have 
reduced  our  CO2  emissions  by  more  than  30%  since  2004.  In 
addition  to  reducing  our  emissions,  we  are  able  to  help  our 
customers  achieve  a  lower  carbon  footprint  in  their  supply 
chains.

Since  2000,  all  our  vessels  have  been  installed  with 
environment-friendly  NOx-controlled  propulsive  engines  while 
advanced slide fuel injection valves are also adopted to help reduce 
NOx emissions by 30%. All our new buildings since 2011 are also 

24 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

equipped  with  Alternative  Maritime  Power  (AMP)  Systems,  also 
known  as  “Cold  Ironing”,  which  allows  the  vessel  to  use  shore 
supplied electricity instead of burning fuel when at berth.

OOCL  is  fully  compliant  to  the  EU,  North  America  and  IMO 
mandated requirements of using 0.1% or lower sulphur content 
fuel  in  all  SOx  Emission  Control  Areas  (SECA).  We  are  also 
compliant  to  the  requirements  of  using  0.1%  sulphur  content 
fuel when our vessels are berthed at designated EU ports.

Moreover,  OOCL  is one of the leading carriers that signed on 
to  the  newly  introduced  Shenzhen  Port  Green  Convention 
initiated  by  the  Shenzhen  Transportation  Commission 
(SZMOT)  that  encourage  ocean  going  vessels  to  voluntarily 
use fuel with a sulphur content of less than 0.5% when berthed 
at the participating ports in Shenzhen.

OOCL  vessels  also  ensure  that  the  sulphur  content  of  our 
fuel  is  well  below  the  IMO  prescribed  standard  of  3.5%  when 
sailing  in  the  high  seas.  In  2015,  OOCL  achieved  an  average 
sulphur content of 2.32%.

our offices – Our focus is to create and maintain a “paperless 
office”  environment  by  eliminating  the  use  of  faxes  and 
unnecessary  paper  documents.  As  a  business  which  has 
traditionally  relied  on  paper  documentation  with  customers, 
such  as  bills  of  lading  and  invoices,  we  have  successfully 
taken  innovative  measures  to  effectively  reduce  our  paper 
consumption since 2006.

We have implemented a “reduce, re-use and recycle” campaign in 
all our offices around the world, encouraging employees to switch 
off  computers  after  work,  powering  off  copiers  and  lights  after 
use, and to install energy saving office equipment, such as energy 
efficient light bulbs. We also have mandatory training for all staff 
in safety, security and environmental issues, and organise OOCL 
Green Week every July in offices around the world.

our  terminals  –  In  2015,  our  Long  Beach  Container 
Terminal  (LBCT  LLC)  continued  to  exceed  all  environmental 
requirements  by  the  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency 
(EPA),  the  State  of  California’s  Air  Resources  Board  (CARB), 
and the Port of Long Beach’s (POLB) Green Port Policy. Some 
of the compliance measures taken in 2015 include:

•  Deploying  newer  model  “Clean”  trucks  to  receive  and 

deliver containerized cargo;

• 

Retrofitting container handling equipment with the latest 
“Clean  Air  Technology”  engines  or  the  latest  exhaust 
control  technologies,  as  well  as  replacing  very  old  ones 
for newer and more energy efficient equipment.

Phase  1  development  of  the  new  LBCT  Pier  E  terminal,  also 
known  as  the  Middle  Harbor  Redevelopment  Project  (MHRP), 
has  been  designed  and  is  being  constructed  by  using  the 

Corporate Responsibilitycleanest and most efficient technologies available. Not only will 
the  MHRP  be  at  the  forefront  of  clean  technology  for  cargo 
handling, the construction equipment and processes used in the 
development also meet the highest environmental standards.

To  help  improve  air  quality  and  reduce  emissions  in  the  local 
community, the new terminal will be:

• 

• 

• 

• 

C e r t i f i e d   t o   m e e t   L e a d e r s h i p   i n   E n e r g y   a n d 
Environmental Design (LEED) standards;

Providing  fully  electric,  emission  free  handling  of 
containers  from  vessel  to  the  truck  using  all-electric 
cranes  and  battery  powered  Automated  Guided  Vehicles 
(AGVs);

Providing  electrical  power  to  the  facility  at  66,000  Volts, 
ensuring  the  most  efficient  transmission  of  power  with 
the minimum possible loss levels to the terminal;

Providing  “Cold-Ironing”  facilities  to  allow  all  vessels 
to  operate  on  clean  shore  power  and  shut  down  their 
generator engines while at-berth; and

• 

Purchasing Renewable Energy Credits.

In  2005,  our  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  (KAOCT)  in 
Taiwan  had  converted  its  entire  container  yard  to  a  ‘green’ 
enterprise  by  replacing  its  straddle  carriers  operation  with 
electric rail mounted gantry cranes (RMGs) to improve energy 
and  operational  efficiencies.  As  a  result  of  the  improvements 
made  over  the  years,  electricity  consumption  throughput 
decreased  by  15.4%,  from  17.4  kWh/TEU  in  2005  to  14.7 
kWh/TEU in 2015. Currently, there are a total of 20 electrically 
powered  RMGs  in  the  terminal  on  a  fixed-rail  system  and 
these  gantry  cranes  are  emission-free,  quiet,  and  provide  a 
much  safer  working  environment  at  the  port.  The  equipment 
has  not  only  helped  improve  energy  efficiency  but  also 
terminal  efficiency  as  shipside  productivity  improved  by  8.9% 
from  2005  to  2015  and  during  this  same  period,  the  annual 
throughput  also  increased  by  72%.  This  has  enabled  KAOCT 
to  effectively  handle  more  vessels  at  one  time  and  the  higher 
productivity level helped shorten the vessel berthing period to 
achieve bunker saving as well as emission reduction.

Moreover,  KAOCT  minimised  the  use  of  Side-Pickers  and 
utilised  electric-powered  RMGs  to  handle  empty  containers 
at  the  terminal  to  improve  energy  efficiency.  When  compared 
to  2007,  the  terminal  reduced  diesel  consumption  by  about 
38% last year.  In 2012, over 200 sets of lighting systems in the 
terminal  office  were  also  replaced  with  energy  efficient  LED 
technology, achieving a 59% savings on lighting electricity.

our  Containers  –  Today,  OOCL  only  uses  CFC-free 
refrigerants  for  all  of  our  refrigerated  (reefer)  containers. 
OOCL’s newest reefer containers have one of the lowest power 

consumption  in  the  industry,  and  we  install  ThermoKing 
“EcoPower”  gensets  for  better  energy  efficiency.  All  our 
containers  have  been  applied  with  tin-free  paint  and  we  have 
introduced the use of eco-friendly bamboo floorboards instead 
of the traditional hardwood ones.

The  Group’s  sustainability  and  environmentally  conscious 
practices in many aspects, often exceed legal requirements and 
general  industry  standards  in  the  countries  where  it  operates. 
As  a  responsible  and  committed  member  of  the  international 
community,  the  Group  will  continually  strive  for  further 
improvement in all aspects of its business.

Security

In  a  world  where  global  cargo  security  threats  always  increase 
the  complexities  of  the  international  trade  community,  OOCL 
is  strongly  committed  to  the  security  of  our  operations  against 
possible compromise and to the maintenance of the highest level 
of compliance in security related areas. From our offices to ports, 
warehouses,  shore  facilities  and  onboard  our  vessels,  we  work 
with the responsible authorities to ensure that every measure is in 
place to maintain the highest commercial and operational security 
standards  possible  at  all  times,  while  all  employees  are  educated 
and regularly updated through security training.

The Group’s Corporate Security Policy and internal guidelines 
comply  with  the  US  Customs-Trade  Partnership  Against 
Terrorism  (C-TPAT)  initiative,  EU  Authorised  Economic 
Operator  (AEO)  Program,  and  we  actively  work  with  various 
governments  and  authorities  around  the  world  to  counter 
any  act  that  would  impinge  upon  maritime  or  cargo  security. 
Under  our  policy,  we  have  internal  security  checks  to  all  of 
its holdings and our security profile has been validated by the 
US  Customs  and  Border  Protection  agency  through  physical 
checks  of  the  offices  and  facilities  of  the  Group  including 
terminals, warehouses, depots and vessels.

Our  company  meets  the  International  Ship  and  Port  Facility 
Security Code (ISPS Code), which ensures that security threats 
are detected and assessed and preventive measures are in place 
on  our  vessels  and  at  our  port  facilities.  A  designated  officer 
on each ship and at each port facility reports to the Company 
Security  Officer  who  oversees  the  security  plans,  drills  and 
training.  With  this  in  place,  all  our  vessels  continue  to  have 
an  exemplary  record  containing  zero  breaches  of  security  and 
clean  detention  records.  In  addition,  to  provide  world-class 
quality  and  secure  information  to  customers  and  partners, 
our Global Data Centre has also achieved and maintained ISO 
27001 certification.

OOCL  has  been  certified  as  a  “Partners  in  Protection”  (PIP) 
carrier  by  the  Canada  Border  Services  Agency  (CBSA) 
Partners in Protection. It is a voluntary program established by 
the CBSA to enhance border security, combat organised crime 
and  terrorism,  detect  and  prevent  contraband  smuggling,  and 

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

25

Corporate Responsibilityincrease  awareness  of  issues  to  secure  the  flow  of  legitimate 
goods  and  travelers  across  the  US-Canadian  border.  OOCL 
applies anti-piracy measures before our vessels transit through 
High  Risk  Areas  (HRA).  One  of  the  key  measures  is  to 
maintain  a  24-hour,  360-degree  anti-piracy  visual  and  radar 
watch and to deploy additional watch-keepers at the bridge and 
on  deck  while  transiting  the  HRA  to  watch  out  for  suspected 
pirate  vessels.  Physical  measures  are  also  utilised  onboard, 
such as barbed wires, spikes, and night vision binoculars. Close 
communication  is  always  maintained  between  ships  and  our 
Fleet  Management  Department  (FMD)  office.  FMD’s  24-hour 
emergency  hotline  is  always  on  standby  mode  in  the  case  of 
any emergency.

Traditionally,  antivirus  and  malware  detection  software 
would  provide  a  boost  to  our  computer  security  by  helping 
our  computers  stay  away  from  being  ‘infected’.  But  as  the 
development  of  the  Internet  is  becoming  more  sophisticated 
than ever, signature-based virus/malware detection tools alone 
are no longer sufficient today.

This  is  because  the  ‘Advanced  Persistent  Threat’,  a  set  of 
stealthy  and  continuous  computer  hacking  processes  often 
orchestrated  by  attackers  targeting  a  specific  entity  by  taking 
advantage  of  security  loopholes,  is  growing.  APT  has  been 
observed  to  target  organizations  and/or  nations  for  business, 
financial  and/or  political  motives.  ‘Corporate  Security 
Breaches’,  ‘Email  Spoofing’,  ‘Spear  Phishing’  and  ‘Social  Media 
Fraud’  are  some  of  the  common  types  of  cyber  attacks.  To 
boost  our  employee’s  knowledge  and  awareness  of  cyber 
security, new initiatives and programs have been developed to 
ensure everyone takes part in protecting our assets and become 
more  resilient  against  such  threats.  This  includes  an  annual 
cyber  security  training  and  mandatory  test  for  all  employees, 
monthly  knowledge  and  trend  updates,  and  sophisticated 
monitoring and protective systems.

Community and education

As  a  responsible  corporate  citizen  the  Group  recognizes 
that  the  societies  in  which  its  employees  live  and  work 
contribute  greatly  to  the  company’s  overall  success.  Care  for 
these  communities  in  which  it  operates  is  therefore  a  major 
corporate  focus.  The  Group  concentrates  its  community 
efforts  on  charity  programs  designed  to  provide  well-rounded 
youth  education,  charity  relief  to  the  needy,  and  cultural 
entertainment to the whole community.

OOCL  employees  across  the  world  are  encouraged  to  give 
something back to the communities in which they live through 
charitable  activities  such  as  fundraising  and  volunteering  by 
dedicating their time and efforts to help others in need.

Some  of  the  areas  where  the  charity  donations  were  made 
by  the  Group  and  its  employees  include:  education,  social 
services,  orphanages,  elderly  homes,  schools,  children’s 

26 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

hospitals,  cancer  research,  multiple  sclerosis,  and  diabetes 
research.  In  addition  to  financial  donations,  the  Group  also 
contributes  in  kind.  We  offer  transportation  and  logistics 
support  to  send  relief  to  the  affected  areas.  Assistance  in  the 
form  of  free  transportation  is  often  given  to  a  number  of 
charitable  projects  including  transporting  medical  diagnostic 
equipment and supplies from the US to China to care for those 
children who need urgent treatments.

In  keeping  with  the  Group’s  long  tradition  in  supporting 
education, the Group, in partnership with The Tung Foundation, 
committed  more  than  US$548,000  in  2015  to  scholarships 
through  The  Tung  OOCL  Scholarship  for  students  and  our 
employees’ children.

In  2015,  forty  OOCL  vessels  participated  in  the  Hong  Kong 
Voluntary Observing Ship (HKVOS) program by the Hong Kong 
Observatory  (HKO)  to  gather  and  provide  marine  climatology 
data  needed  to  help  identify  prevailing  weather  conditions  for 
preparing forecasts and warnings to the maritime community.

To  recognise  vessels’  outstanding  efforts  in  volunteering  their 
time  to  help  improve  maritime  safety,  the  HKO  presented 
two  ‘Diamond  Awards’,  two  ‘Platinum  Awards’,  and  two  ‘Gold 
Awards’ to a total of six OOCL vessels on 16th June 2015.

Apart from the quantity of the reports made, OOCL California 
and OOCL Guangzhou were also presented with participation 
certificates  jointly  issued  by  the  World  Meteorological 
Organization  (WMO)  and  Intergovernmental  Oceanographic 
Commission  of  UNESCO  (IOC)  for  the  high  quality  of  the 
reports  sent.  According  to  the  HKO,  observational  data 
received  from  these  ships  in  the  Voluntary  Observing  Ship 
Scheme  Climate  Fleet  (VOSClim)  are  highly  valued  by  the 
international  scientific  community  for  climate  research  and 
climate change studies.

As  a  Hong  Kong-based  shipping  company,  OOCL  has  been 
committed  to  working  with  the  HKO  in  various  projects  and 
contribute  to  their  safety  and  climate  research.  In  June  2015, 
OOCL  assisted  HKO  to  conduct  two  new  studies  that  make 
use  of  our  vessels  to  enhance  meteorological  observations 
over  the  South  China  Sea.  During  its  voyage  from  Hong 
Kong  to  Singapore  on  OOCL  Busan,  seven  weather  balloons 
carrying radiosondes were launched from a portable upper-air 
sounding  system  to  collect  meteorological  data  such  as  air 
temperature,  humidity,  wind  direction  and  wind  speed  in 
the  upper  atmosphere  over  the  South  China  Sea.  In  another 
project,  a  drifter  buoy  equipped  with  air  pressure  and  sea 
surface temperature sensors was deployed from OOCL Atlanta 
over the central part of the South China Sea. The buoy, carried 
along  by  ocean  currents  over  a  data-sparse  sea  area,  was 
able  to  take  insitu  air  pressure  and  sea  surface  temperature 
measurements  and  transmitted  the  data  to  the  HKO  via 
satellite on an hourly basis.

Corporate ResponsibilityThese  projects  were  the  result  of  fruitful  collaboration  between 
the  Observatory  and  the  shipping  community,  and  represented 
new  milestones  for  the  HKO  in  marine  meteorological 
observations.  The  gathering  of  more  meteorological  data  will 
support  weather  monitoring  over  the  South  China  Sea  and  the 
surrounding areas, enhance the forecasting capability of tropical 
cyclones and contribute to navigation safety in the region.

employee information

As  a  responsible  corporate  citizen  employing  the  highest 
standards  of  business  ethics  in  all  that  it  does,  the  Group 
understands  that  the  process  begins  with  the  well  treatment 
of  its  employees.  As  a  successful  corporation,  the  Group 
appreciates  that  its  success,  growth  and  performance  are 
attributable  to  the  skills,  dedication  and  teamwork  of  its 
employees.  It  regards  people  as  its  greatest  asset  and  takes 
good care of them.

In  the  spirit  of  mutual  respect,  the  Group  is  an  equal 
opportunity  employer  with  a  clearly  defined  policy,  covering 
areas  such  as  treating  all  employees  with  fairness  and  dignity, 
promoting  the  corporate  culture  of  encouraging  open  and 
frank  communication  throughout  the  organisation,  investing 
in  its  employees  and  caring  for  their  hopes  and  aspirations 
through  people  development  programs  and  education,  as  well 
as recognising their efforts and achievements.

People  development  remains  a  cornerstone  of  the  corporate 
culture  and  enables  the  effective  operation  of  the  Group’s 
career  development  policy  through  recruitment  and  internal 
promotion.  The  Group  has  channeled  a  great  deal  of  time 
and  effort  into  its  various  people  development  programs  in 
practical  and  experiential  environments  through  job  rotation, 
local  and  overseas  job  assignments,  formal  and  informal 
learning  and  development  opportunities  and  sponsorships  for 
performance enhancement building capacities of employees in 
support  of  their  growth  with  the  Group.  To  further  enhance 
practical training and better HQ/Regional cooperation, efforts 
have been made to initiate more short term cross regional job 
rotations.

The  Group  employs  an  innovative  approach  to  employee 
learning and management development. The Group recognizes 
that  on  demand  performance  support  to  its  employees  is 
the  key  to  help  them  deliver  what  customers  need.  Through 
the  Group’s  intranet,  called  “InfoNet”,  the  Group  offers 
an  all  new  string  to  its  human  resources  bow,  creating 
learner-centric platforms with interactive paths to training and 
self-improvement, as well as opening up learning opportunities 
to many more people within the business. Introduced in 2010, 
this new intranet portal also allows speedy sharing of company 
news  and  business  updates  while  giving  its  employees  a 
platform  to  exchange  views  and  ideas.  In  2011,  the  Group 
had  a  wide  adoption  of  enterprise  level  collaboration  tools 
in  addition  to  conventional  methods  of  communication  such 
as  email.  OOCL  Wiki  and  Tibbr  have  proven  to  be  two  of 
these  very  effective  tools  in  the  sharing  of  information  and 
knowledge  as  well  as  collaboration  amongst  large  groups  of 
colleagues  in  our  offices  around  the  world.  They  have  also 
helped  us  support  accelerated  learning  by  providing  us  with 
the means to leverage resources, ideas and hence solutions.

As  at  31st  December  2015,  the  Group  had  9,889  full-time 
employees.  Their  salary  and  benefit  levels  are  maintained  at 
competitive  levels.  Employees  are  rewarded  on  a  performance 
related  basis  within  the  general  policy  and  framework  of 
the  Group’s  salary  and  bonus  schemes  which  are  regularly 
reviewed.  Other  benefits  including  medical  insurance  and 
pension  funds  are  also  provided,  and  social  and  recreational 
activities are organised around the world.

In  the  interest  of  adhering  to  the  highest  ethical  standards 
on  an  ongoing  basis,  the  Group  has  a  formulated  Code  of 
Conduct  which  serves  as  a  guideline  to  ensure  compliance 
with all local, national and international legal standards and to 
preclude offences under local, national and international laws, 
any  breaches  of  confidentiality,  non-disclosure  requirements 
or intellectual property rights and any conflicts of interest, acts 
of  bribery,  corruption  or  political  contribution  and  any  other 
areas of deemed misconduct. The Group has set up procedures 
to identify, manage and control risks that may have an impact 
on the business of the Group. Established in 2006, the Group’s 
“Whistle  Blower  Policy”  is  one  of  the  Group’s  formalized 
procedures  through  which  employees  can  anonymously  file 
reports  or  register  concerns  and  helps  govern  the  reporting 
and  thorough  investigation  of  allegations  of  suspected 
improper activities.

The  Group  is  an  equal  opportunity  employer  with  policies 
not  to  discriminate  against  any  employee  or  applicant  for 
employment  on  the  grounds  of  race,  colour,  religion,  creed, 
age,  sex,  disability,  pregnancy,  childbirth  and  related  medical 
condition,  marital  status,  sexual  orientation,  veteran  status 
and  any  other  category  as  guided  by  local  laws  and  legal 
regulations.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

27

Corporate Responsibility“ While we have appetite to invest and to grow, 
and thereby to enhance shareholder returns, the 
current market environment reminds us all of 
the high value of maintaining a balance sheet 
that enables us to withstand the volatility and 
cyclicality of our industry.”

28 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Financial Reviewanalysis of Consolidated profit and loss account

Summary of Group results

US$’000

operating revenue by activity:
  Container Transport and Logistics
  Other Activities

2015

2014

Change

5,927,023
26,421

6,494,859
26,730

(567,836)
(309)

Group operating revenue

5,953,444

6,521,589

(568,145)

operating profit by activity:
  Container Transport and Logistics
  Other Activities

Group operating profit
Finance costs
Share of profits of joint ventures and
  associated companies

Net gain in fair value on investment property

profit before taxation
Taxation
Non-controlling interests

profit attributable to shareholders

276,211
57,312

333,523
(63,642)

17,782

287,663
19,545

307,208
(23,357)
–

283,851

229,979
89,515

319,494
(54,000)

19,436

284,930
9,653

294,583
(24,145)
100

270,538

46,232
(32,203)

14,029
(9,642)

(1,654)

2,733
9,892

12,625
788
(100)

13,313

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
%

(9%)
(1%)

(9%)

20%
(36%)

4%
(18%)

(9%)

1%
102%

4%
3%
N/M

5%

Revenue  for  2015  was  US$568.1  million  lower  than  that  of  2014,  representing  a  decrease  of  9%.  This  was  mainly  attributable  to 
the lower freight rates recorded in the core Container Transport and Logistics business. Other revenue, amounting to less than 1% 
of the Group’s revenue for both 2015 and 2014, represented rental income from the Group’s investment property, Wall Street Plaza, 
in New York.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

29

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Container transport and logistics

Summary of operating results

US$’000

liftings (teUs)

revenue per teU (US$)

Operating revenue by location:
  Asia/Australia
  North America
  Europe

operating revenue

Operating costs by items:
  Cargo costs
  Bunker costs
  Vessel and voyage costs (excluding Bunker)
  Equipment and repositioning costs

operating costs

Gross profit
Other operating expenses
Other operating income, net

operating profit

2015

2014

5,575,874

5,585,516

936

1,040

4,077,784
835,387
1,013,852

5,927,023

4,459,195
867,326
1,168,338

6,494,859

(2,927,464)
(603,193)
(995,356)
(721,408)

(3,070,264)
(1,014,046)
(1,033,481)
(742,970)

(5,247,421)

(5,860,761)

679,602
(448,467)
45,076

276,211

634,098
(436,345)
32,226

229,979

Change

(9,642)

(104)

(381,411)
(31,939)
(154,486)

(567,836)

142,800
410,853
38,125
21,562

613,340

45,504
(12,122)
12,850

46,232

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
%

0%

(10%)

(9%)
(4%)
(13%)

(9%)

5%
41%
4%
3%

10%

7%
(3%)
40%

20%

The Container Transport and Logistics business trades under the “OOCL” name and represents the principal revenue contributor 
to the Group, accounting for over 99% of the Group’s revenue in 2015. Container Transport and Logistics will continue to be the 
core business of the Group in which the majority of the Group’s operating assets will be deployed.

operating revenue of Container transport and logistics

18%

13%

69%

17%

14%

69%

100%

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

2014

2015

Asia/Australia

North America

Europe

The  operating  results  for  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  also  include  the  operations  of  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  in 
California  USA  and  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in  Taiwan  as  these  facilities  are  mainly  employed  by  OOCL  and  its  alliance 
members.

30 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
asia/australia

Turnover from the Asia/Australia area decreased from US$4,459.2 million in 2014 to US$4,077.8 million in 2015 as a result of a 
drop in freight rates. Europe bound trades registered the largest shortfall in revenue terms when compared with last year while the 
Intra-Asia and Australasian trades also recorded a notable decline.

The  overall  liftings  of  the  Trans-Pacific  eastbound  services  increased  by  2%  while  freight  rates  softened  by  3%  when  compared 
with  last  year.  The  westbound  legs  of  the  Asia/Northern  Europe  services  recorded  an  11%  setback  in  volume  amid  a  24%  drop 
in  rates.  Intra-Asia  sustained  a  modest  1%  growth  in  liftings  for  the  year  but  a  10%  retreat  in  freight  rates.  Liftings  of  the  Asia/
Australia and New Zealand services rose by 10% in 2015 while freight rates fell by 19% compared with last year.

Overall  load  factor  as  a  percentage  of  the  capacity  available  during  2015  was  5  percentage  points  lower  than  that  of  2014,  amid 
a  7.1%  increase  in  available  capacity  during  the  year.  Results  from  this  region  have  always  been  dependent  upon  the  economic 
environment and consumption patterns of North America and Europe.

Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in  Taiwan  is  an  integral  part  of  the  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  business  and  its  terminal 
facilities are mainly employed by OOCL and its alliance members.

North america

Revenue decreased by US$31.9 million for this area in 2015 with softening freight rates and a decline in volume. Both Asia-bound 
and Europe-bound cargoes recorded a drop in average freight rates, which accounted for the revenue shortfall.

The westbound liftings of the Asia/North America West Coast service and the Asia/US East Coast service via the Panama Canal 
increased slightly compared with last year but revenue showed an 8% decrease, mainly due to an 11% decline in freight rates. The 
eastbound Canada/Northern Europe and US East Coast/Northern Europe services recorded a 12% setback in volume and a 17% 
drop in revenue.

The overall volumes and the average revenue per TEU on all outbound cargoes from North America recorded dips of 1% and 10% 
respectively as compared with last year. With a 5.7% increase in capacity during the year, the overall load factor in the region was 
4 percentage points down from 2014.

Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  forms  an  integral  part  of  the  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  business  with  its  terminal 
facilities mainly employed by OOCL and its alliance partners.

europe

Turnover  for  this  area  in  2015  softened  by  US$154.5  million  after  a  handsome  growth  in  2014.  The  eastbound  leg  of  the  Asia/
Northern  Europe  services  recorded  a  10%  revenue  decline  in  2015  while  the  westbound  trades  of  the  Trans-Atlantic  routes 
sustained  a  4%  growth.  Modest  revenue  growth  was  achieved  for  the  Mediterranean  markets  while  the  Intra-Europe  trades 
recorded a noticeable revenue drop.

The  eastbound  leg  of  the  Asia/Northern  Europe  services  saw  a  4%  decrease  in  volume  in  2015,  which  was  aggravated  by  a  6% 
decline  in  freight  rates.  Liftings  for  the  westbound  sectors  of  the  Canada/Northern  Europe  and  US  East  Coast/Northern  Europe 
services were comparable to those of 2014 while the average revenue per TEU for both services was 3% better than last year. The 
eastbound routes of the Mediterranean trades sustained an 8% growth in volume and a 3% increase in revenue during the year.

The  overall  load  factor  as  a  percentage  of  capacity  available  for  cargo  shipments  from  this  region  was  3  percentage  points  lower 
than that of 2014 with a 1.6% capacity decrease for the Europe area during 2015.

The  average  revenue  per  TEU  on  all  outbound  cargoes  from  Europe  was  1%  higher  than  that  of  2014,  amid  a  5%  decrease  in 
overall volume for the region.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

31

Financial Reviewrevenue per teU by Services

US$

1,800 

1,600 

1,400 

1,200 

1,000 

800 

600 

400 

Q1 2014

Q2 2014

Q3 2014

Q4 2014

Q1 2015

Q2 2015

Q3 2015 Q4 2015

Trans-Pacific

Asia-Europe

Trans-Atlantic

Intra-Asia/Australia

All Trades

operating Costs

The principal operating costs of the container transport business, including cargo costs, vessel costs, voyage costs, equipment and 
repositioning costs, decreased from 2014 mainly as a result of the drop in bunker price.

Cargo  costs  mainly  consist  of  terminal  charges,  inland  transportation  costs,  commission  and  brokerage,  cargo  assessment  and 
freight tax, all of which are largely paid in the local currencies of the areas in which the activities take place. Cargo cost decreased 
by 5% compared with that of 2014 as a result of the lower liftings and a stronger US dollar for the year.

average Bunker price per ton

US$

700

600

500

400

300

200

100

Jan

Feb Mar

Apr May

Jun

Jul

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov Dec

2014

2015

32 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Financial ReviewVoyage costs comprise mainly bunker costs, port charges, canal dues, cargo claims and insurance. Bunker price softened from an 
average of US$572 per ton in 2014 to an average of US$311 per ton in 2015, resulting in a 41% drop in bunker cost for the year.

Vessel costs include the operating costs and depreciation charges relating to the OOCL fleet as well as the net charter hire and slot 
hire expenses incurred in order to maintain the scheduled service levels. With the extra capacity from newbuildings delivered, the 
total carrying capacity grew from 529,662 TEU as at the end of 2014 to 561,421 TEU in 2015, while the total number of vessels 
operated  by  OOCL,  both  owned  and  chartered-in,  increased  from  98  to  103.  However,  total  vessel  and  voyage  costs,  other  than 
bunker costs, for 2015 decreased from those of 2014 as a result of the softening charter rates.

Equipment  costs  principally  represent  maintenance  and  repair  costs,  rental  payments,  depot  expenses  and  depreciation  charges 
relating  to  the  fleet  of  containers  and  chassis  equipment,  while  repositioning  costs  arise  mainly  from  the  relocation  of  empty 
containers  from  areas  of  low  activity  to  high  demand  regions.  The  container  fleet  size  decreased  from  982,880  TEU  in  2014  to 
967,015 TEU in 2015 while total equipment and repositioning costs were 3% lower than last year with increased owned equipment 
and less rental outgoings.

operating costs

2014

13%

52%

18%

17%

2015

14%

56%

19%

11%

Cargo costs

Bunker costs

Vessel and voyage costs
(excluding Bunker)

Equipment and 
repositioning costs

other operating expenses

Other operating expenses largely comprise staff costs, office expenses, selling and marketing costs, professional and information 
system expenses. Increases in other operating expenses were contained at US$12.1 million when compared with 2014.

other operating income, net

Other operating income, comprising principally net foreign exchange differences and net profit or loss on the disposal of assets, 
for 2015 was US$12.9 million better than that of 2014.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

33

Financial Reviewother activities

Summary of operating results

US$’000

Rental income
Elimination

operating revenue
Operating costs

Gross profit
Investment income
Interest income
Distributions from investment in Hui Xian
Others

operating profit

2015

27,364
(943)

26,421
(15,008)

11,413
11,461
14,215
30,550
(10,327)

57,312

2014

27,638
(908)

26,730
(15,036)

11,694
27,068
14,638
43,832
(7,717)

89,515

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
%

(1%)
N/M

(1%)
0%

(2%)
(58%)
(3%)
(30%)
(34%)

(36%)

Change

(274)
(35)

(309)
28

(281)
(15,607)
(423)
(13,282)
(2,610)

(32,203)

The  Group  owns  an  approximately  600,000  sq  ft  office  and  commercial  property,  Wall  Street  Plaza,  located  at  88  Pine  Street, 
New York, USA, an area popularly referred to as the “Wall Street area”. The building was constructed in 1972 and is operated as 
a multi-tenanted building. Approximately 21,000 sq ft is occupied by Group companies. The Group also invests funds surplus to 
operations in cash and bank deposit and, on a longer term basis, in equity and bond portfolios. The Group also owns 7.9% interest 
in Hui Xian Holdings Ltd which is the largest unit-holder of Hui Xian REIT, the first RMB-denominated REIT in Hong Kong.

The  operating  profit  from  Other  Activities  for  2015  was  US$32.2  million  lower  than  that  of  2014  with  lower-value  dividends  in 
specie from Hui Xian Holdings Ltd and lower contributions from investment activities recorded for the year.

rental income

Rental income from Wall Street Plaza was comparable to that of last year, with an occupancy rate of 94% as at the end of 2015.

investment income

Compared with a profit of US$27.1 million in 2014, investment activities recorded a profit of US$11.5 million for the year. Interest 
income from bond investments increased in 2015, which was offset by the fair value loss recorded for the year.

investment income By activities

21,265

19,974

6,284

(10,948)

810

1,144

US$’000

25,000

20,000

15,000

10,000

5,000

0

(5,000)

(10,000)

(15,000)

Interest income from
investments

Fair value and
disposal gain/(loss)

Dividend income

2014

2015

34 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
interest income

Interest income decreased by US$0.4 million in 2015, reflecting an average lower deposit balance during the year.

Distributions from investment in Hui Xian

Hui  Xian  Holdings  Ltd  declared  and  paid  both  cash  dividends  and  dividends  in  specie  in  2015,  of  which  the  Group  shared  a 
total of US$24.8 million. The Group also received distributions of US$5.8 million from its direct holding of Hui Xian REIT units 
during  the  year,  resulting  in  a  total  contribution  of  US$30.6  million  from  Hui  Xian  in  2015.  In  2014,  a  total  of  US$40.2  million 
from Hui Xian Holdings Ltd, in terms of cash dividends and dividends in specie, and a US$3.6 million distribution from Hui Xian 
REIT were received.

others

Other  items  include  business  and  administration  expenses  for  property  management,  exchange  differences  and  other 
miscellaneous items.

finance Costs

The Group incurs interest expenses on bank loans, finance leases and, to a very small extent, bank overdrafts. These borrowings 
are variously secured against vessels, containers, chassis and terminal equipment owned by the Group. Finance costs also include 
fees on lease administration.

Finance  costs  increased  by  US$9.6  million  as  compared  with  2014,  principally  a  result  of  a  higher  average  debt  balance  for  the 
year.

Net Gain in fair Value on investment property

As at 31st December 2015, the Group’s investment property, Wall Street Plaza, was valued at US$200 million, up from the US$180 
million valuation at the end of 2014, by an independent valuer. After offsetting a total of US$0.5 million capital improvements, the 
net gain in fair value for 2015 was therefore US$19.5 million. In 2014, the property recorded a valuation gain of US$10.0 million 
which was offset against capital improvements of US$0.3 million to result in a net fair value gain of US$9.7 million.

Share of results of Joint Ventures and associated Companies

Share of results of joint ventures and associated companies mainly represents the Group’s investment in a depot joint venture in 
Qingdao,  two  agency  joint  ventures  in  the  Middle  East,  and  a  20%  stake  in  two  terminals  in  Tianjin  and  Ningbo.  The  share  of 
US$17.8 million profit from joint ventures and associated companies in 2015 was US$1.7 million lower than 2014.

profit before taxation

Pre-tax  profit  for  the  year  was  US$307.2  million  compared  with  last  year’s  profit  of  US$294.6  million.  The  increase  in  earnings 
mainly  came  from  the  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  business,  offset  in  part  by  a  lower  contribution  from  investment 
activities.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

35

Financial Reviewtaxation

US$’000

Company and subsidiaries:
  North America
  Europe
  China
  Asia and others

Total

2015

12,728
1,480
4,728
4,421

23,357

2014

8,783
991
4,932
9,439

24,145

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
%

(45%)
(49%)
4%
53%

3%

Change

3,945
489
(204)
(5,018)

(788)

Taxation for 2015 was comparable with that of 2014 which was in line with the operating results.

Capital expenditure

US$’000

Container vessels and capitalised dry-docking costs
Vessels under construction
Containers and chassis
Terminal equipment
Vehicles, furniture, computer and other equipment
Computer software
Investment property

2015

23,870
506,056
169,576
58,422
27,317
11,024
455

796,720

2014

21,652
280,573
339,246
172,527
20,196
14,228
347

848,769

Change

2,218
225,483
(169,670)
(114,105)
7,121
(3,204)
108

(52,049)

Increase/
(decrease)
%

10%
80%
(50%)
(66%)
35%
(23%)
31%

(6%)

Capital expenditure decreased from US$848.8 million in 2014 to US$796.7 million in 2015. Vessels under construction accounted 
for  64%  and  33%  of  the  total  capital  expenditure  in  2015  and  2014  respectively  while  capital  outlays  on  container  equipment 
decreased from 40% of 2014 to 21% in 2015. The decrease in capital expenditure on terminal equipment mainly represented the 
near completion of Phase I for the Middle Harbor Redevelopment Project in Long Beach, USA.

Vessels

During  2015,  the  Group  took  delivery  of  four  8,888  TEU  vessels  and  entered  into  sale-and-lease-back  agreements  for  two  8,063 
TEU vessels for three years.

In 2015, the Group placed orders for six 20,000 TEU class vessels from Samsung Heavy Industries, Korea, to be delivered in 2017.

Newbuilding Delivery Schedule

Delivery

May 2017
Jun 2017
Jul 2017
Aug 2017
Oct 2017
Nov 2017

Shipyard

Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries

Hull No.

HN2172
HN2173
HN2174
HN2175
HN2176
HN2177

teU

21,000
21,000
21,000
21,000
21,000
21,000

Year of order

2015
2015
2015
2015
2015
2015

36 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
review of Consolidated Balance Sheet

Summary of Consolidated Balance Sheet

US$’000

Property, plant and equipment
Investment property and prepayments of

lease premiums

Joint ventures and associated companies
Intangible assets
Liquid assets
Accounts receivable and other assets
Other non-current assets

total aSSetS
Accounts payable and other liabilities
Current taxation

total aSSetS leSS traDiNG liaBilitieS
Long-term borrowings
Short-term borrowings, overdrafts and current
  portion of long-term borrowings

Total debt
Deferred liabilities
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

Capital eMploYeD
Debt to equity ratio
Net debt to equity ratio
Accounts payable as a % of revenue
Accounts receivable as a % of revenue
% return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Net asset value per ordinary share (US$)
Liquid assets per ordinary share (US$)
Share price at 31st December (US$)
Price to book ratio based on share price
  at 31st December

property, plant and equipment

US$’000

Vessels
Containers and chassis
Terminal equipment
Land and buildings
Others

Change

411,815

19,353
(4,740)
7,068
(140,778)
(197,876)
3,277

98,119
186,473
2,213

286,805
67,475

49,742

117,217
6,830
162,758

286,805

2015

2014

6,020,744

5,608,929

208,462
157,007
55,646
2,548,976
710,977
29,762

9,731,574
(766,731)
(3,464)

8,961,379
3,663,100

438,619

4,101,719
62,150
4,797,510

8,961,379
0.85
0.32
12.60
8.39
6.02
7.67
4.07
4.78

189,109
161,747
48,578
2,689,754
908,853
26,485

9,633,455
(953,204)
(5,677)

8,674,574
3,595,625

388,877

3,984,502
55,320
4,634,752

8,674,574
0.86
0.28
14.46
8.81
5.94
7.41
4.30
5.81

0.62

0.79

2015

4,269,560
1,274,923
388,737
37,640
49,884

6,020,744

2014

3,969,359
1,217,025
339,664
41,796
41,085

5,608,929

Change

300,201
57,898
49,073
(4,156)
8,799

411,815

Increase/
(decrease)
%

7%

10%
(3%)
15%
(5%)
(22%)
12%

1%
(20%)
(39%)

3%
2%

13%

3%
12%
4%

3%

Increase/
(decrease)
%

8%
5%
14%
(10%)
21%

7%

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

37

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Container  Transport  and  Logistics  remains  the  core  business  of  the  Group  and  the  one  in  which  the  majority  of  property,  plant 
and  equipment  is  deployed.  The  assets  largely  comprise  container  vessels,  containers  and  chassis,  terminal  equipment,  property 
and computer equipment and systems.

The increase in property, plant and equipment in 2015 principally reflects the outlays on newbuildings, the additions in containers 
and new terminal equipment for the Middle Harbor Redevelopment Project.

investment property and prepayments of lease premiums

US$’000

Investment property
Prepayments of lease premiums

2015

200,000
8,462

208,462

2014

180,000
9,109

189,109

Change

20,000
(647)

19,353

Increase/
(decrease)
%

11%
(7%)

10%

Investment property represents the Group’s commercial building, Wall Street Plaza, in New York. The building was valued at
US$200.0 million as at the end of 2015 by an independent valuer (2014: US$180.0 million).

Joint Ventures and associated Companies

US$’000

Joint ventures
Associated companies

2015

11,758
145,249

157,007

2014

9,248
152,499

161,747

Change

2,510
(7,250)

(4,740)

Increase/
(decrease)
%

27%
(5%)

(3%)

The  investment  in  associated  companies  comprises  minority  holdings  in  two  container  terminals  in  Tianjin  and  Ningbo.  The 
investments  in  joint  ventures  are  in  connection  with  (1)  a  container  depot  in  Qingdao,  and  (2)  two  shipping  agencies  in  the 
Middle East. The decrease in the investment value in joint ventures and associated companies for 2015 was mainly a result of the 
depreciation of Chinese Yuan.

intangible assets

US$’000

Opening balances
Additions
Disposal of a subsidiary
Amortisation

Closing balances

2015

48,578
11,024
–
(3,956)

55,646

2014

42,663
14,228
(3)
(8,310)

48,578

Change

5,915
(3,204)
3
4,354

7,068

Increase/
(decrease)
%

14%
(23%)
N/M
(52%)

15%

Intangible assets represent capitalised computer software development costs which are amortised over a period of five years.

38 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
liquid assets

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities
Cash and portfolio funds
Available-for-sale listed equity securities
Held-to-maturity investments

2015

285,436
42,309
1,985,153
–
236,078

2014

437,155
35,726
1,971,037
9
245,827

Total liquid assets

2,548,976

2,689,754

Increase/
(decrease)
%

(35%)
18%
1%
(100%)
(4%)

(5%)

Change

(151,719)
6,583
14,116
(9)
(9,749)

(140,778)

The  Group  adopts  a  central  treasury  system  under  which  a  part  of  the  funds  surplus  to  planned  requirements  is  set  aside  for 
portfolio investments in fixed income bonds or equities managed by in-house managers under guidelines imposed by the Board.

The  Group’s  investment  portfolios  are  largely  invested  in  US  dollar  bonds,  short-term  cash  deposits  or  similar  instruments,  and 
listed equities. No investments are made in derivative investment products.

Held-to-maturity investments are entirely bonds intended to be held until maturity.

The Group’s total liquid assets at the end of 2014 and 2015 can be further analyzed as follows:

US$’000

Cash (per cashflow statement)
Bank overdrafts

Bank balances and deposits maturing within
three months from the date of placement
Bank balances and deposits maturing over
three months from the date of placement

Cash and bank balances (per balance sheet)
Restricted bank balances
Portfolio investments
Available-for-sale listed equity securities
Held-to-maturity investments

Total liquid assets

2,548,976

2,689,754

accounts receivable and other assets

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Others

2015

558,825
152,152

710,977

2014

740,543
168,310

908,853

Change

(181,718)
(16,158)

(197,876)

2015

1,737,511
14

2014

1,942,822
1

Change

(205,311)
13

Increase/
(decrease)
%

(11%)
1300%

1,737,525

1,942,823

(205,298)

(11%)

278,056

223,091

54,965

2,015,581
1,423
295,894
–
236,078

2,165,914
54,581
223,423
9
245,827

(150,333)
(53,158)
72,471
(9)
(9,749)

(140,778)

25%

(7%)
(97%)
32%
(100%)
(4%)

(5%)

Increase/
(decrease)
%

(25%)
(10%)

(22%)

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

39

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accounts  receivable  and  other  assets  for  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  decreased  by  US$181.7  million  to  US$558.8  million 
at the end of 2015. The decrease was mainly attributable to the lower value for bunker inventory and the effect of re-classifying a 
vessel from property, plant and machinery to asset held for sale in 2014, which was subsequently disposed of during the year.

ageing analysis of trade receivables

2014

2015

7% 3%

2%8%

90%

90%

Below 1 month

2-3 months

Over 3 months

accounts payable and other liabilities

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Others

2015

760,439
6,292

766,731

2014

946,538
6,666

953,204

Change

(186,099)
(374)

(186,473)

Increase/
(decrease)
%

(20%)
(6%)

(20%)

Accounts payable and other liabilities at the end of 2015 were US$186.5 million lower than that of 2014, mainly due to decreases 
in cost provisions pursuant to lower business volume and corresponding costs.

ageing analysis of trade payables

2014

2015

25%

7%

68%

26%

7%

67%

Below 1 month

2-3 months

Over 3 months

40 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Financial Review 
 
 
 
total Debt

US$’000

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations
Bank overdrafts

2015

2,293,928
1,807,777
14

4,101,719

2014

2,372,235
1,612,266
1

3,984,502

Change

(78,307)
195,511
13

117,217

Increase/
(decrease)
%

(3%)
12%
1300%

3%

Total  debt  increased  during  the  year  by  US$117.2  million,  principally  a  result  of  the  financial  obligations  incurred  upon  capital 
expenditures on newbuildings and other equipment during the year, offset in part by scheduled repayments.

Total  scheduled  debt  repayment  between  2016  and  2020  is  US$2,571.0  million,  being  equivalent  to  63%  of  the  total  outstanding 
debt  as  at  31st  December  2015.  Details  of  the  repayment  profile  of  the  Group’s  borrowings  are  set  out  in  Note  36  to  the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Debt profile

As at the end of 2015, 99% (2014: 99%) of the Group’s total debt was denominated in US dollar which effectively reduced the risk 
of exchange fluctuations.

Of  the  total  US$4,101.7  million  debt  outstanding  at  the  end  of  2015,  US$389.4  million  was  fixed-rate  debt  and  the  remaining 
US$3,712.3  million  was  subject  to  floating  interest  rates  at  various  competitive  spreads  over  three-month/six-month  LIBOR  (or 
equivalent)  and  related  principally  to  the  financing  of  vessels  and  container  equipment.  The  Group’s  average  cost  of  debt  at  31st 
December 2015 was 2.0% (2014: 1.5%).

Net Debt to equity ratio

This  ratio  changed  to  0.32:1  as  at  the  end  of  2015  from  0.28:1  as  at  the  end  of  2014  mainly  due  to  new  debts  relating  to 
newbuilding  orders  and  new  equipment  acquired  in  2015.  This  ratio  will  be  closely  monitored  in  the  light  of  the  delivery  and 
financing of new vessels ordered and business forecasts over the next three years. It is the Group’s objective to keep this key ratio 
below a threshold of 1.0.

Net Debt to equity

Ratio

0.40

0.20

0.00

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Shareholders’ equity

As at 31st December 2015, the Company had 625,793,297 shares in issue, consisting entirely of ordinary shares. With a profit for 
the year, offset in part by the payment of interim dividends, the Group’s consolidated shareholders’ equity increased by US$162.8 
million to US$4,797.5 million as at the end of 2015 with a net asset value per ordinary share of US$7.67 (2014: US$7.41).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

41

Financial Review 
 
 
 
operating leases and Commitments

In  addition  to  the  owned  operating  assets,  the  Group  employs  assets  through  operating  lease  arrangements  as  detailed  in  Note 
39(b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Assets under operating lease arrangements consist primarily of container boxes, 
chassis, container vessels and a terminal in North America.

As at the  end of  2015, the Group  had outstanding capital commitments amounting to US$778.9 million, principally represented 
by the orders placed for new container vessels to be delivered in 2017 and new equipment for the Middle Harbor Redevelopment 
Project.

analysis of Change in liquid assets

US$’000

Net inflow from operations

2015

536,231

2014

553,237

Change

(17,006)

Other inflow:

Interest and investment income

  Sale of property, plant and equipment

  and investments
  New loan drawdown
  Cash from joint ventures and associated companies 
  Cash from disposal of a subidiary, net 
  Fair value gain on portfolio investments 

Other outflow:

Interest and financing charges paid

  Dividends paid to shareholders
  Taxation paid

Increase in property, plant and equipment,
investments and non-current assets

  Loan repayments
  Fair value loss on portfolio investments

Net (outflow)/inflow
Beginning liquid asset balances
Changes in exchange rates

Ending liquid asset balances

Represented by:
  Unrestricted bank balances and deposits
  Restricted bank balances
  Portfolio investments
  Available-for-sale listed equity securities
  Held-to-maturity investments

52,957

49,845

3,112

108,010
910,985
17,383
–
–

1,089,335

(62,492)
(81,579)
(15,458)

(377,002)
(1,215,668)
(10,948)

177,480
686,453
18,336 
5,716 
6,284 

944,114

(53,790)
(58,784)
(20,916)

(384,756)
(703,662)
–

(1,763,147)

(1,221,908)

(137,581)
2,689,754
(3,197)

2,548,976

2,015,581
1,423
295,894
–
236,078

2,548,976

275,443
2,411,085
3,226

2,689,754

2,165,914
54,581
223,423
9
245,827

2,689,754

(69,470)
224,532
(953)
(5,716) 
(6,284) 

145,221

(8,702)
(22,795)
5,458

7,754
(512,006)
(10,948)

(541,239)

(413,024)
278,669
(6,423)

(140,778)

(150,333)
(53,158)
72,471
(9)
(9,749)

(140,778)

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
%

(3%)

6%

(39%)
33%
(5%)
(100%)
(100%)

15%

(16%)
(39%)
26%

2%
(73%)
N/M

(44%)

N/M
12%
N/M

(5%)

(7%)
(97%)
32%
(100%)
(4%)

(5%)

42 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  net  outflow  of  US$137.6  million  was  recorded  in  2015  compared  with  a  net  inflow  of  US$275.4  million  in  2014.  Operating 
inflow  of  US$536.2  million  for  the  year  was  US$17.0  million  lower  than  that  of  2014  despite  improved  operating  results.  The 
capital  payments  in  2015  mainly  reflected  the  scheduled  stage  payments  arranged  for  the  ordered  vessels  and  the  acquisition 
of  container  and  terminal  equipment.  The  higher  drawdowns  and  repayments  for  2015  were  largely  caused  by  the  refinancing 
of  existing  borrowings  during  the  year.  Total  liquid  asset  balances  decreased  to  US$2,549.0  million  at  the  end  of  2015,  against 
US$2,689.8 million in 2014.

liquidity

As  at  31st  December  2015,  the  Group  had  total  liquid  asset  balances  of  US$2,549.0  million  compared  with  debt  obligations  of 
US$438.6 million repayable in 2016. Total current assets at the end of 2015 amounted to US$2,916.8 million against total current 
liabilities  of  US$1,208.8  million.  The  Group’s  shareholders’  equity  contains  no  loan  capital.  The  Group  prepares  and  updates 
cashflow  forecasts  for  asset  acquisitions,  project  development  requirements,  as  well  as  working  capital  needs,  from  time  to  time 
with  the  objective  of  maintaining  a  proper  balance  between  a  conservative  liquidity  level  and  an  effective  investment  of  surplus 
funds.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

43

Financial ReviewtUNG Chee Chen

Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen,  aged  73,  has  been  appointed  as  the  Chairman, 
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since October 1996. 
Mr. Tung chairs the Executive Committee, the Nomination Committee, the 
Inside  Information  Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company 
and  is  a  member  of  the  Remuneration  Committee  of  the  Company.  He  is 
also  the  chairman  or  a  director  of  various  subsidiaries  of  the  Company. 
Mr.  Tung  graduated  from  the  University  of  Liverpool,  England,  where  he 
received  his  Bachelor  of  Science  degree  and  acquired  a  Master’s  degree  in 
Mechanical  Engineering  at  the  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology  in 
the  United  States.  Mr.  Tung  is  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director 
of  U-Ming  Marine  Transport  Corp.,  a  listed  company.  He  was  formerly 
an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  BOC  Hong  Kong  (Holdings) 
Limited,  Cathay  Pacific  Airways  Limited  and  Sing  Tao  News  Corporation 
Limited,  all  of  which  are  companies  listed  in  Hong  Kong.  He  was  also  an 
Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  OCBC  Wing  Hang  Bank  Limited 
(formerly  known  as  Wing  Hang  Bank,  Limited),  a  company  previously 
listed  in  Hong  Kong  until  withdrawal  of  its  listing  on  16th  October  2014, 
and  was  a  member  of  the  Hong  Kong  Logistics  Development  Council. 
Mr.  Tung  is  the  brother  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa  who  has  an  interest  in  a 
trust  which  has  an  indirect  interest  in  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  and  Gala  Way 
Company  Inc.  (substantial  shareholders  of  the  Company);  the  brother-in-
law  of  Professor  Roger  King  (a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company); 
and the uncle of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew (an Executive Director of 
the  Company)  and  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan  (an  Executive  Director  and 
Chief Financial Officer of the Company). Mr. Tung is either a director, or a 
director  of a company  which is  a corporate director, of certain substantial 
shareholders  of  the  Company  which  have  disclosure  interests  in  the 
Company under the provisions of the Securities and Futures Ordinance.

tUNG lieh Cheung andrew

Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew,  aged  51,  has  been  an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company  since 
2nd  November  2011  and  is  a  member  of  the  Executive  Committee,  the  Inside  Information 
Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company.  He  has  been  a  Director  and  a  member 
of  the  Executive  Committee  of  Orient  Overseas  Container  Line  Limited  (“OOCLL”),  a  wholly-
owned subsidiary of the Company, since March 2006, and the Chief Executive Officer and Senior 
Managing  Director  of  OOCLL  since  1st  July  2012.  Mr.  Tung  is  also  a  director  of  Cargosmart 
(Hong  Kong)  Limited,  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  the  Company  as  well  as  a  director  of 
various subsidiaries of the Company. Between 1993 and 1998, he has served the Group in various 
capacities  including  Director  of  Reefer  Trade  of  OOCLL.  The  last  position  Mr.  Tung  held  in 
Hong  Kong  Dragon  Airlines  Limited  prior  to  joining  OOCLL  in  2006  was  the  Chief  Operating 
Officer.  Mr.  Tung  holds  a  Bachelor  degree  from  Princeton  University  and  a  Master  of  Business 
Administration  degree  from  Stanford  University  in  the  USA.  Mr.  Tung  became  an  Independent 
Non-Executive  Director  of  Cathay  Pacific  Airways  Limited,  a  company  listed  in  Hong  Kong, 
on  20th  May  2015,  and  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  Standard  Chartered  Bank 
(Hong  Kong)  Limited  on  31st  July  2015.  He  is  currently  a  member  of  the  Executive  Committee 
of  Hong  Kong  Shipowners  Association  and  a  member  of  the  Hong  Kong  Logistics  Development 
Council,  and  was  the  Vice-Chairman  of  the  International  Chamber  of  Commerce  Commission 
for  Transport  &  Logistics.  Mr.  Tung  is  the  son  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa  who  has  an  interest  in  a 
trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala Way Company Inc. (substantial 
shareholders  of  the  Company),  and  is  the  brother  of  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan  (an  Executive 
Director and Chief Financial Officer of the Company). He is the nephew of Mr. Tung Chee Chen 
(the  Chairman,  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the  Company)  who  has  an  interest  in  a 
trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala Way Company Inc. (substantial 
shareholders  of  the  Company),  and  Professor  Roger  King  (a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the 
Company). Mr. Tung is a director of certain substantial shareholders of the Company which have 
disclosure interests in the Company under the provisions of the Securities and Futures Ordinance.

44 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Board of DirectorstUNG lieh Sing alan

Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan, aged 48, has been an Executive Director of the Company since 1st May 
2005,  and  has  been  re-designated  from  the  Acting  Chief  Financial  Officer  to  the  Chief  Financial 
Officer of the Company since 1st January 2016. Mr. Tung is a member of the Executive Committee, 
the  Compliance  Committee,  the  Inside  Information  Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee  of  the 
Company. Mr. Tung has been with the Group in various capacities for twenty three years and is a 
Director  of  various  subsidiaries  of  the  Company.  Mr.  Tung  graduated  from  Princeton  University, 
Politics  Department  with  a  Bachelor  of  Arts  degree.  Mr.  Tung  is  a  member  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Economic  Development  Commission,  a  board  member  of  the  Hong  Kong  Maritime  Museum, 
an  executive  committee  member  of  the  International  Association  of  Dry  Cargo  Shipowners 
(Intercargo),  a  member  of  the  Advisory  Committee  of  Center  for  Transport,  Trade  and  Financial 
Studies of the City University of Hong Kong, a member of the Departmental Advisory Committee 
of  Department  of  Logistics  and  Maritime  Studies  of  The  Hong  Kong  Polytechnic  University  and 
a  non-executive  director  of  both  The  Steamship  Mutual  Underwriting  Association  (Bermuda) 
Limited and The Steamship Mutual Underwriting Association (Reinsurance) Limited. He did not 
hold  directorships  in  any  other  public  companies  listed  in  Hong  Kong  and  overseas  in  the  last 
three  years.  Mr.  Tung  is  the  son  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa  who  has  an  interest  in  a  trust  which  has 
an  indirect  interest  in  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  and  Gala  Way  Company  Inc.  (substantial  shareholders 
of  the  Company),  and  is  the  brother  of  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew  (an  Executive  Director 
of the Company). He is the nephew of Mr. Tung Chee Chen (the Chairman, President and Chief 
Executive Officer of the Company) who has an interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in 
Fortune  Crest  Inc.  and  Gala  Way  Company  Inc.  (substantial  shareholders  of  the  Company),  and 
Professor Roger King (a Non-Executive Director of the Company).

professor roger KiNG

Professor  Roger  King,  aged  75,  has  been  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  since 
March  2000  and  was  an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company  from  1992.  He  is  a  member  of  the 
Finance  Committee,  the  Share  Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company.  He  was  a 
Director  of  Orient  Overseas  (Holdings)  Limited  (“OOHL”)  from  1983  to  1992  and  the  Managing 
Director  and  Chief  Operating  Officer  of  OOHL  from  1985  to  1987.  Professor  King  is  a  graduate 
of  the  University  of  Michigan,  BSEE;  New  York  University,  MSEE;  Harvard  Business  School, 
AMP;  and  The  Hong  Kong  University  of  Science  and  Technology  (“HKUST”),  PhD  in  Finance. 
He  is  an  Adjunct  Professor  of  Finance,  Director  of  Tanoto  Center  for  Asian  Family  Business 
and  Entrepreneurship  Studies  and  Director  of  Thompson  Center  for  Business  Case  Studies  at 
HKUST.  He  also  worked  in  computer  research  and  management  consultancy  at  Bell  Telephone 
Laboratories.  Professor  King  is  a  member  of  the  Supervisory  Board  of  TNT  Express  N.V.  (listed 
on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange) and the Honorary Consul of the Republic of Latvia in Hong 
Kong. Professor King was an Independent Non-Executive Director of Sincere Watch (Hong Kong) 
Limited  (listed  on  the  Hong  Kong  Stock  Exchange),  a  member  of  the  Supervisory  Board  of  TNT 
N.V. (listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange), Chairman and founder of System-Pro Computers 
Limited,  one  of  the  largest  personal  computer  reseller  in  Hong  Kong,  Chairman  of  Pacific 
Coffee  Limited  and  a  member  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  Zhejiang  Province  People’s  Political 
Consultative  Conference.  Professor  King  is  the  brother-in-law  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa  who  has 
an interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala Way Company 
Inc.  (substantial  shareholders  of  the  Company),  and  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  (the  Chairman, 
President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the  Company)  who  has  an  interest  in  a  trust  which  has 
an  indirect  interest  in  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  and  Gala  Way  Company  Inc.  (substantial  shareholders 
of the Company), and the uncle of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew (an Executive Director of the 
Company) and Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan (an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer of the 
Company).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

45

Board of DirectorsSimon MUrraY

Mr.  Simon  Murray,  CBE,  aged  75,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company 
since  1992  and  was  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  Orient  Overseas  (Holdings)  Limited  from  1989  until 
1992.  He  serves  as  a  member  on  the  Audit  Committee  of  the  Company.  He  is  the  Non-Executive 
Chairman of General Enterprise Management Services Limited, an Independent Non-Executive Director 
of Cheung Kong Property Holdings Limited and Wing Tai Properties Limited (formerly known as USI 
Holdings Limited), a Non-Executive Director of China LNG Group Limited, Greenheart Group Limited 
and  IRC  Limited,  all  are  companies  listed  in  Hong  Kong.  Mr.  Murray  is  also  an  Independent  Non-
Executive  Director  of  Spring  Asset  Management  Limited,  manager  of  Spring  Real  Estate  Investment 
Trust which is listed in Hong Kong. He is a Non-Executive Director of Compagnie Financière Richemont 
SA, a company listed in Switzerland. Mr. Murray was formerly a Non-Executive Chairman of Glencore 
International  Plc  (renamed  to  Glencore  Plc),  a  company  listed  in  Hong  Kong;  an  Independent  Non-
Executive Director of Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited, a company previously listed in Hong Kong until 
withdrawal of its listing on 18th March 2015; an Independent Non-Executive Director of CK Hutchison 
Holdings  Limited,  a  company  listed  in  Hong  Kong  on  18th  March  2015;  an  Independent  Director  of 
Sino-Forest Corporation, previously listed in Canada; and the Vice Chairman and an Independent Non-
Executive  Director  of  Essar  Energy  Plc,  a  company  listed  in  the  United  Kingdom;  and  the  Chairman 
and an Independent Non-Executive Director of Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd., a company listed in the 
United Kingdom. Mr. Murray is a member of the Former Directors Committee of The Community Chest 
of Hong Kong and has been involved in a number of other charitable organisations, including Save The 
Children Fund and The China Coast Community Association.

CHoW philip Yiu Wah

Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  aged  68,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the 
Company  since  2nd  January  2015.  He  is  the  chairman  of  the  Remuneration  Committee  and 
a  member  of  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Nomination  Committee,  the  Finance  Committee,  the 
Share Committee and the Risk Committee of the Company. He was an Executive Director of the 
Company from 1st December 2003 to 30th June 2012, a Non-Executive Director of the Company 
from 1st July 2012 to 1st January 2015 and a consultant of the Company from 1st July 2012 to 31st 
December  2014.  Mr.  Chow  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Science  degree  in  Chemistry  and  Physics  from 
the  University  of  Hong  Kong  and  a  Master  of  Business  Administration  degree  from  the  Chinese 
University  of  Hong  Kong.  He  did  not  hold  directorships  in  any  other  public  companies  listed  in 
Hong Kong and overseas in the last three years.

professor WoNG Yue Chim richard

Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard, aged 63, has been an Independent Non-Executive Director of 
the Company since December 2003. He is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member 
of the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee of the Company. He graduated 
from  University  of  Chicago  with  Bachelor’s,  Master’s  and  Ph.D.  degrees  in  Economics  and  is 
Chair of Economics at The University of Hong Kong. He has been active in advancing economic 
research  on  policy  issues  in  Hong  Kong  and  China.  He  was  awarded  the  Silver  Bauhinia  Star  in 
1999 by the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for his contributions in 
education, housing, industry and technology development. He was appointed Justice of the Peace 
in July 2000. Professor Wong is currently an Independent Non-Executive Director of three other 
listed companies in Hong Kong, namely Great Eagle Holdings Limited, Pacific Century Premium 
Developments  Limited  and  Sun  Hung  Kai  Properties  Limited.  He  is  also  an  Independent  Non-
Executive Director of Link Asset Management Limited (formerly known as The Link Management 
Limited),  the  manager  of  Link  Real  Estate  Investment  Trust  (formerly  known  as  The  Link 
Real  Estate  Investment  Trust),  a  Hong  Kong  listed  company.  Professor  Wong  was  formerly  an 
Independent Non-Executive Director of CK Life Sciences Int’l., (Holdings) Inc., a company listed 
in Hong Kong.

46 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Board of DirectorsCHeNG Wai Sun edward

Mr.  Cheng  Wai  Sun  Edward,  aged  60,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of 
the  Company  since  19th  March  2009.  He  serves  as  a  member  on  the  Audit  Committee  of  the 
Company.  Mr.  Cheng  graduated  from  Cornell  University  with  a  Bachelor’s  degree  in  Political 
Science  and  Economics,  and  Oxford  University  with  a  Bachelor’s  degree  in  Jurisprudence  and  a 
Master’s degree. He was qualified as a solicitor in England and Wales as well as in Hong Kong. He 
is a Justice of the Peace and has been awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star by the Government of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (“HKSAR”). Mr. Cheng is an Executive Director, Chief 
Executive  and  Deputy  Chairman  of  Wing  Tai  Properties  Limited,  a  company  listed  on  The  Stock 
Exchange  of  Hong  Kong  Limited  and  also  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  Standard 
Chartered  Bank  (Hong  Kong)  Limited.  Mr.  Cheng  resigned  as  an  Independent  Non-Executive 
Director  of  Television  Broadcasts  Limited  effective  1st  January  2015,  a  company  listed  on  The 
Stock  Exchange  of  Hong  Kong  Limited.  Mr.  Cheng  has  many  years  of  public  service  experience 
in  urban  renewal,  housing,  finance,  corruption  prevention,  technology  and  education.  He  is  a 
member  of  the  board  of  The  Airport  Authority  Hong  Kong  and  a  member  of  the  Commission 
on Strategic Development of the Government of the HKSAR. He ceased to be a member and the 
Chairman  of  the  University  Grants  Committee  upon  the  expiry  of  term  on  31st  December  2015. 
Mr.  Cheng  was  the  former  Chairman  of  the  Urban  Renewal  Authority  and  former  member  of 
the  Advisory  Committee  on  Corruption  of  the  Independent  Commission  Against  Corruption. 
He  has  also  previously  served  on  the  Government  of  the  HKSAR’s  Steering  Committee  on 
Innovation  &  Technology,  the  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Education,  the  Council  of 
the  City  University  of  Hong  Kong,  the  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Polytechnic  University,  the 
Executive Committee of the Hong Kong Housing Society, the Council of the Hong Kong Institute 
of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Futures Commission’s Takeovers and Mergers 
Panel  and  the  Takeovers  Appeal  Committee,  and  was  a  part-time  member  of  the  Central  Policy 
Unit.

KWoK King Man Clement

Mr. Kwok King Man Clement, Chevalier de la Légion ďHonneur, aged 56, has been an Independent 
Non-Executive Director of the Company and a member of the Audit Committee of the Company 
since 2nd July 2015. Mr. Kwok holds a bachelor of Science in Economics from the London School 
of  Economics.  He  is  a  member  of  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  in  England  and  Wales 
and the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Mr. Kwok is the Managing Director 
and Chief Executive Officer of The Hongkong and Shanghai Hotels, Limited, a company listed in 
Hong  Kong.  His  career  began  with  Price  Waterhouse  and  Barclays  de  Zoete  Wedd  in  the  United 
Kingdom, following which he returned to Hong Kong in 1986 to work with Schroders Asia where 
he  was  appointed  as  Head  of  Corporate  Finance  in  1991.  From  1996  to  2002,  Mr.  Kwok  served 
as  Finance  Director  of  MTR  Corporation.  Mr.  Kwok  is  a  former  Independent  Non-Executive 
Director  of  Swire  Pacific  Limited,  a  company  listed  in  Hong  Kong.  Mr.  Kwok  is  a  Fellow  of  The 
Hong Kong Management Association, a Council Member of the World Travel & Tourism Council, 
and a Board Member of the Faculty of Business and Economics of The University of Hong Kong. 
Over his long career in Hong Kong, he has served on the Stock Exchange Listing Committee, the 
Takeovers  and  Mergers  Panel,  the  Securities  and  Futures  Appeals  Tribunal,  the  Hang  Seng  Index 
Advisory Committee and the Harbourfront Commission, as well as the Interpretations Committee 
of the International Accounting Standards Board in London.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

47

Board of Directors  Michael fitzgerald
Mr  Fitzgerald,  aged  42,  joined  the  group  in 
September  2014  as  Group  Finance  Director, 
became  a  member  of  the  OOCL  Executive 
Committee in December 2014, and was appointed 
Group  Deputy  Chief  Financial  Officer  in 
December  2015.  He  holds  the  degrees  of  BA 
and  MA  from  the  University  of  Oxford,  and  is  a 
Fellow  of  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants 
in  England  and  Wales.  Mr  Fitzgerald  started 
his  career  at  KPMG  in  London  in  August  1995, 
and  having  qualified  as  a  Chartered  Accountant, 
moved  to  the  Structured  Finance  division  of 
Société  Générale  in  January  1999,  where  he 
enjoyed an almost 16-year career, holding various 
posts in London, Hong Kong and Paris.

  raymond fung
Mr.  Fung,  aged  57,  has  been  the  Director  of 
Intra-Asia  Trade  since  August  2014  and  was 
appointed  a  member  of  the  OOCL  Executive 
Committee  since  1st  November,  2015.  He  holds 
a  Bachelor  of  Business  Administration  General 
Business  Management  from  Chinese  University 
of  Hong  Kong.  Mr.  Fung  joined  the  Group 
in  1983  and  has  served  the  Group  in  various 
capacities  for  32  years,  including  serving  as 
General  Manager  of  Operations,  Managing 
Director  of  OOCL  (UAE),  Director  of  Australia 
Trade,  General  Manager  of  Corporate  Methods 
and Tools.

  teddy fung
Mr.  Fung,  aged  54,  has  been  the  Director  of 
Corporate  Operation  since  September  2013  and 
was appointed a member of the OOCL Executive 
Committee  since  1st  November,  2015.  He  holds 
a  Bachelor  of  Social  Science  in  Economics  and 
a  Master  of  Arts  in  Transport  Studies  from 
University  of  Hong  Kong.  Mr.  Fung  joined  the 
Group  in  1994  and  has  served  the  Group  in 
various capacities for 21 years, including serving 
as  General  Manager  of  OOCL  South  China  sub-
region,  Director  of  Reefer  Trade,  Managing 
Director of OOCL Hong Kong Branch.

  Michael Kwok
Mr. Kwok, aged 61, has been the Chief Operating 
Officer  of  OOCL  since  July  2012,  a  Director  of 
OOCL  since  August  2010  and  Head  of  Regions 
Management  since  September  2013  until  he 
retired on 1st January 2016. He holds a Bachelor 
of  Business  Administration  from  Chinese 
University  of  Hong  Kong.  Mr.  Kwok  joined 
the  Group  in  1978  and  has  served  the  Group 
in  various  capacities  for  37  years,  including 
serving  as  Director  of  Intra  Asia  Trade,  Head  of 
Fleet  Management  and  Corporate  Logistics  and 
Director of Trades.

  lammy lee
Ms.  Lee,  aged  54,  has  been  the  Company 
Secretary  and  Group  Legal  Advisor  of  OOIL 
since  February  1997  and  Compliance  Officer 
of  OOIL  since  June  2004.  She  was  appointed  a 
Director  of  OOCL  and  a  member  of  the  OOCL 
Executive  Committee  since  1st  April  2011.  Ms. 
Lee  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Laws  from  Queen  Mary 
College,  University  of  London,  a  Barrister  and 
member  of  Lincoln’s  Inn  and  admitted  as  an 
advocate  and  solicitor  of  the  High  Court  of 
Malaya.  Ms.  Lee  joined  the  Group  in  1988  and 
has served the Group in various capacities for 27 
years.

  Stephen Ng
Mr. Ng, aged 57, has been the Director of Trades 
since  July  2012,  Director  of  Corporate  Planning 
until  June  2012  and  a  Director  of  OOCL  since 
August  2010.  He  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Social 
Sciences  from  University  of  Hong  Kong  and  a 
Master of Business Administration from Chinese 
University  of  Hong  Kong.  Mr.  Ng  joined  the 
Group  in  1987  and  has  served  the  Group  in 
various  capacities  for  28  years.  Before  being 
transferred  back  to  Hong  Kong  in  2010,  he 
worked  in  California  for  seven  years  as  Head  of 
Trans-Pacific Trade.

48 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Senior Management  Steve Siu
Mr. Siu, aged 58, has been the Chief Information 
O f f i c e r   a n d   a   D i r e c t o r   o f   O O C L   s i n c e 
November  2006  and  Chief  Executive  Officer 
of  CargoSmart  since  January  2002.  He  holds 
a  Bachelor  of  Science  and  a  Master  of  Science 
from  University  of  Essex,  UK  and  a  Master  of 
Business  Administration  jointly  organised  by 
Northwestern  University  and  The  Hong  Kong 
University  of  Science  and  Technology.  Mr.  Siu 
joined  the  Group  in  1987  and  has  served  the 
Group in various capacities for 28 years.

  erxin Yao
Mr.  Yao,  aged  58,  has  been  a  Director  of  OOCL 
since  January  2010  and  a  Director  of  Corporate 
Planning  and  Corporation  Administration  since 
January  2013.  He  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Arts  from 
Toronto/Fudan  University  joint  program  and  a 
Master  of  International  Affairs  from  Columbia 
University.  Mr.  Yao  joined  the  Group  in  1993 
and  has  served  the  Group  in  various  capacities 
for  22  years,  including  serving  as  Executive 
Vice-President  and  Head  of  Corporate  Services 
of  OOCL  Logistics  in  Hong  Kong,  Managing 
Director  of  Orient  Overseas  Container  Line 
(China)  Co.,  Ltd.  and  OOCL  Logistics  (China) 
Limited  based  in  Shanghai  and  President  of 
OOCL (USA) Inc.

  Kenny Ye
Mr.  Ye,  aged  52,  has  been  the  Chief  Executive 
Officer  of  OOCL  Logistics  and  a  member  of  the 
OOCL Executive Committee since 1st November, 
2015. He holds a Diploma of Accounting in Lixin 
Accounting  Institute  and  a  Master  of  Business 
Administration  from  Oklahoma  City  University. 
Mr.  Ye  joined  the  Group  in  1994  and  has  served 
the  Group  in  various  capacities  for  21  years. 
Since  he  was  transferred  from  OOCL  Shanghai 
to  OOCL  Hong  Kong  in  2004,  he  has  served  as 
a  Director  of  Asia-Europe  Trade,  a  Director  of 
Intra-Asia Trade and the Chief Operating Officer 
of OOCL Logistics.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

49

Senior ManagementAnnouncement of results for the half year ended 30th June 2015

10th August 2015

Despatch of 2015 Interim Report to shareholders

4th September 2015

Announcement of results for the year ended 31st December 2015

Despatch of 2015 Annual Report to shareholders

Closure of the Register of Members

(to ascertain the shareholders eligible to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting)

2015 Annual General Meeting

Closure of the Register of Members

(to ascertain the shareholders qualified to receive the proposed final dividend

in respect of the year ended 31st December 2015)

7th March 2016

5th April 2016

25th April 2016 to

29th April 2016

(Both days inclusive)

29th April 2016

9th May 2016 to

11th May 2016

(Both days inclusive)

50 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Financial Calendar 
orDiNarY SHareS

Issued shares
Nominal value per share
Board lot

aNNUal report

625,793,297 shares (as at 31st December 2015)
US$0.10
500 shares

This annual report is available in both English and Chinese.

Shareholders can obtain copies by writing to:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited
17M Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong

If you are not a shareholder, please write to:
Orient Overseas (International) Limited
33rd Floor, Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road
Wanchai, Hong Kong
Attn: Company Secretary

This annual report is also available at our website at http://www.ooilgroup.com.

SHareHolDer SerViCeS

Any  matter  relating  to  your  shareholding,  including  transfer  of  shares,  change  of  name  or  address,  and  loss  of  share  certificates 
should be addressed in writing to:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited
17M Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong
Telephone: (852) 2862 8555 

Facsimile: (852) 2865 0990

SHareHolDer eNQUirieS

Any matter relating to shareholders’ rights should be addressed in writing to:

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
33rd Floor, Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road
Wanchai, Hong Kong
Attn: Company Secretary

Our enquiry hotline is operational during normal office hours:
Facsimile: (852) 2531 8147

Telephone: (852) 2833 3888 

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

51

Shareholder InformationSHareHolDer iNforMatioN

Ordinary shareholder information as at 31st December 2015:

type of shareholders

type of shareholders

Corporate
Individual

Distribution of shareholdings

Size of shareholdings

1 – 10,000
10,001 – 100,000
100,001 – 1,000,000
1,000,001 or above

Shareholders

Shares of US$0.10 each

Number

percentage

Number

percentage

23
954

977

2.3541%
97.6459%

620,253,471
5,539,826

99.1148%
0.8852%

100.00%

625,793,297

100.00%

Shareholders

Shares of US$0.10 each

Number

percentage

Number

percentage

911
58
4
4

977

93.2447%
5.9365%
0.4094%
0.4094%

1,271,937
1,859,631
1,315,691
621,346,038

0.2033%
0.2972%
0.2102%
99.2893%

100.00%

625,793,297

100.00%

ten largest ordinary Shareholders

At  31st  December  2015,  the  interests  of  the  ten  largest  ordinary  shareholders  of  the  Company,  as  recorded  in  the  Company’s 
principal register and Hong Kong branch register of members, were as follows:

Name of ordinary shareholders

Fortune Crest Inc.
HKSCC Nominees Limited
Gala Way Company Inc.
Mok Kwun Cheung
Chang Tsann Rong Ernest
So Tung Lam
Tai Wing Kee
Ho Fuk Chuen
Leung Man Kit Albo
Kwan Bing Hang

Number of 
ordinary shares held

percentage

350,722,656
190,136,839
79,227,432
1,259,111
612,731
500,000
101,900
101,060
100,000
93,400

56.04%
30.38%
12.66%
0.20%
0.10%
0.08%
0.02%
0.02%
0.02%
0.01%

52 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Shareholder InformationCorporate GoVerNaNCe CoDe

The  Board  of  Directors  (the  “Board”)  and  the  management  of  the  Company  are  committed  to  maintaining  high  standards  of 
corporate  governance  and  the  Company  considers  that  effective  corporate  governance  makes  an  important  contribution  to 
corporate success and to the enhancement of shareholder value.

The Company has adopted its own corporate governance code (the “CG Code”), which in addition to applying the principles as set 
out in the Corporate Governance Code and Corporate Governance Report (the “SEHK Code”) contained in Appendix 14 to the 
Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”), also incorporates 
and conforms to local and international best practices. The CG Code sets out the corporate governance principles applied by the 
Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) and is constantly reviewed to ensure transparency, accountability and independence.

Throughout the year 2015, the Company complied with the SEHK Code, save for the following:

•  Code provision

Code provision

Deviation

Considered reason for deviation

Separation of the roles 
of chairman and chief 
executive officer of a listed 
issuer

Mr. Tung Chee Chen currently 
assumes the roles of both Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer of the 
Company.

The executive members of the Board currently consist 
of chief executive officer of the principal division of the 
Group and there is an effective separation of the roles 
between the chief executive of its principal division and 
the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. The Board 
considers that further separation of the roles of the 
Chief Executive Officer and Chairman would represent 
duplication and is not necessary for the time being.

•  recommended Best practices

• 
• 

the remuneration of senior management is disclosed in bands
operational results are announced and published quarterly instead of financial results

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

53

Corporate Governance ReportWe have set out in this report our guiding principles and rationale for implementation of the CG Code as well as the status of the 
Company’s compliance with Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules during the year 2015:

a.  BoarD of DireCtorS

1.  Board Composition

The  Board  currently  comprises  of  three  Executive  Directors,  one  Non-Executive  Director  and  five  Independent 
Non-Executive Directors.

executive Directors

Mr. Tung Chee Chen (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan (Chief Financial Officer) (Note 1)

Non-executive Director

Professor Roger King

independent Non-executive Directors

Mr. Simon Murray
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah (Note 2)
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard
Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward
Mr. Kwok King Man Clement (Note 3)

Notes:

(1)  Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan was re-designated from the Acting Chief Financial Officer to the Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1st 

January 2016.

(2)  Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah was re-designated from a Non-Executive Director to an Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 

2nd January 2015.

(3)  Mr. Kwok King Man Clement was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 2nd July 2015.

The  biographical  details  of  the  Directors  and  the  relevant  relationships  between  them  are  set  out  on  the  Company’s 
website at http://www.ooilgroup.com and on pages 44 to 47 of this annual report.

The Directors have formal letters of appointment setting out the key terms and conditions of their appointment, and are 
for a fixed term of three years and subject to re-election by rotation at least once every three years.

The  Directors  have  extensive  corporate  and  strategic  planning  experience  and  industry  knowledge.  All  Independent 
Non-Executive Directors are financially independent from the Group bringing independent and diversified experience, 
competencies, skills and judgment to the Group’s strategy and policies through their informed contributions. The Board 
considers that there is a reasonable balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and has provided adequate 
checks and balances for safeguarding the interests of the shareholders and the Group.

The  Company  has  received  from  each  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  a  written  annual  confirmation  of  their 
independence and considers that all the Independent Non-Executive Directors have satisfied their independence to the 
Group up to the date of this annual report.

During  the  year  2015,  the  Board  complied  with  the  Listing  Rules’  requirement  in  having  at  least  three  Independent 
Non-Executive  Directors  representing  at  least  one-third  of  the  Board,  including  one  with  appropriate  professional 
qualifications or accounting or related financial management expertise.

Among  the  members  of  the  Board,  Professor  Roger  King  (Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company)  is  the 
brother-in-law  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  (Chairman,  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the  Company).  Mr.  Tung 
Lieh  Cheung  Andrew  (Executive  Director  of  the  Company)  is  the  brother  of  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan  (Executive 
Director and Chief Financial Officer of the Company), and both of them are the nephews of Mr. Tung Chee Chen and 
Professor Roger King.

Directors’ and officers’ liabilities insurance
Since  1992,  the  Company  has  arranged  insurance  cover  for  directors’  and  officers’  liabilities  including  cover  for 
Directors, officers and senior management of the Group arising out of corporate activities.

54 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Corporate Governance Report2.  Board and Management responsibilities

The  Board  is  responsible  for  the  overall  strategic  direction  and  management  of  the  business  and  affairs  of  the  Group 
with  the  objective  of  enhancing  shareholder  value  and  presenting  a  balanced,  clear  and  understandable  assessment  of 
the Company’s performance, position and prospects in the annual and interim reports, and announcements and other 
financial  disclosures  as  required  under  the  Listing  Rules,  and  reports  to  regulators  any  information  required  to  be 
disclosed pursuant to statutory requirements.

The Board has a fiduciary duty and statutory responsibility towards the Company and the Group. Other responsibilities 
include formulation of the Group’s overall strategies and policies, setting of corporate and management targets and key 
operational  initiatives,  setting  of  policies  on  risk  management  pursuant  to  the  Group’s  strategic  objectives,  monitoring 
and  control  of  operational  and  financial  performance,  and  approval  of  budgets  and  major  capital  expenditures,  major 
investments,  material  acquisitions  and  disposals  of  assets,  corporate  or  financial  restructuring,  significant  operational, 
financial and management matters.

The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business of the Group to the management of the principal division 
under the leadership and supervision of the Chief Executive Officer, who will implement and report to the Board on the 
adoption of the Company’s strategies, policies and objectives by the principal division of the Group.

The Board also delegates certain specific responsibilities to nine committees (Executive Committee, Audit Committee, 
Remuneration  Committee,  Nomination  Committee,  Compliance  Committee,  Finance  Committee,  Share  Committee, 
Inside Information Committee and Risk Committee). The composition and functions of each committee are described 
below.  These  committees  have  specific  functions  and  authority  to  examine  issues  and  report  to  the  Board  with  their 
recommendations (if appropriate). The final decision rests with the Board, unless otherwise provided for in the terms of 
reference of the relevant committees.

The  Company  Secretary  provides  the  Directors  with  updates  on  developments  regarding  the  Listing  Rules  and  other 
applicable  regulatory  requirements.  Any  Director  may  request  the  Company  Secretary  to  organise  independent 
professional  advice  at  the  expense  of  the  Company  to  assist  the  Directors  to  effectively  discharge  their  duties  to  the 
Company. No such independent professional advice was requested by any Director in year 2015.

3.  Chairman and Chief executive officer

Mr. Tung Chee Chen is the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company with the respective roles set out 
in writing.

a.  The  primary  role  of  the  Chairman  is  to  provide  leadership  to  the  Board  and  to  ensure  that  the  Board  functions 

effectively in the discharge of its responsibilities. His duties include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

ensure that Directors are briefed and have received timely, accurate, complete and clear information on issues 
to be discussed at Board meetings;

ensure  that  the  Board  works  effectively  and  performs  its  responsibilities,  and  that  all  key  and  appropriate 
issues  are  discussed  in  a  timely  manner  and  that  good  corporate  governance  practices  and  procedures  are 
established, implemented and maintained;

approve  the  agenda  drawn  up  by  the  Company  Secretary  for  each  Board  meeting  taking  into  account  any 
matter proposed by other Directors for inclusion in the agenda;

promote a culture of openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors 
(including  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors)  in  particular  and  ensuring  constructive  relations  between 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors; and encourage Directors with different views to voice their concerns, 
allow sufficient time for discussion of issues and ensure that Board decisions fairly reflect Board consensus;

hold  meetings  at  least  annually  with  the  Non-Executive  Directors  (including  Independent  Non-Executive 
Directors) without the presence of the other Executive Directors;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

55

Corporate Governance Report– 

– 

ensure effective communication with shareholders and that their views are communicated to the Board; and 
to

attend  the  annual  general  meetings  and  invite  the  chairmen  of  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration 
Committee, the Nomination Committee and the other Board committees, or in the absence of the chairman 
of the respective Board committees, other members of the related Board committees to be available to answer 
questions at the annual general meetings.

In case of an equality of votes at any Board meeting, the Chairman shall be entitled to a second or casting vote.

b.  The primary role of the Chief Executive Officer is to be responsible for the day-to-day management and operation 

of the Company and Group business. His duties include to:

– 

provide leadership and supervise the effective management of the principal division of the Group;

–  monitor and control the operational and financial performance of the principal division of the Group;

– 

– 

– 

implement and report to the Board on the adoption of the Company’s strategies, policies and objectives by the 
principal division of the Group;

provide  information  to  the  Board  (as  necessary)  to  enable  the  Board  to  monitor  the  performance  of 
management and operation of the principal division of the Group; and to

set  up  programmes  for  management  development  and  succession  planning  for  the  principal  division  of  the 
Group.

4.  Board Meetings

Regular Board meetings are scheduled one year in advance to maximise the attendance of Directors. The Board meets at 
least four times each year and has a formal schedule of matters referred to it for consideration and decision. Additional 
meetings may be convened as and when necessary. Notice of at least fourteen days is served for regular Board meetings 
and reasonable notice is given for all other Board meetings. Directors are consulted and provided with an opportunity to 
include matters into the agenda for discussion at the Board meetings. The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in 
preparing the agenda for each Board meeting and to ensure that applicable rules and regulations regarding the meetings 
are observed. The final agenda together with the Board papers are distributed to the Directors at least three days before 
the Board meetings.

If  a  Director  (who  may  also  be  a  substantial  shareholder  of  the  Company)  has  a  conflict  of  interest  in  any  matter  to 
be  considered  by  the  Board,  the  Company  Secretary  shall  ensure  that  such  matter  is  dealt  with  by  a  physical  Board 
meeting rather than a written resolution. If considered appropriate, the Board meeting shall be attended by Independent 
Non-Executive Directors who have no material interests in the matter. The affected Director shall abstain from voting 
on any such resolution in which they or any of their associates have a material interest and shall not be counted in the 
quorum present at that Board meeting.

The Company Secretary shall ensure that the procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed. Copies of all 
signed minutes of the Board are sent to the Directors for their records.

5.  professional Development

In addition to Directors’ attendance at meetings and review of papers and circulars sent by the Company, the Directors 
have participated in continuous professional development programme to develop and refresh their knowledge and skills 
to help ensure that their contribution to the Board remains informed and relevant.

56 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Corporate Governance ReportThe programme for continuous professional development of Directors takes various forms including:

• 

• 

• 

• 

the  Company  briefing  Directors  on  important  issues  which  have  a  material  impact  on  the  Company’s  business, 
financial  and  operational  matters  including  major  investments,  corporate  governance  practices  and  funding 
strategy;

Directors meeting senior management of the Group on issues specific to the Group’s business;

Directors reading materials and updates on the regulatory changes followed by briefings by the Company Secretary 
of the Company, if requested; and

Directors  attending  external  seminars  on  business,  financial,  governance,  regulatory  and  other  issues  relevant  to 
the Group’s activities.

Below is the record of participation in continuous professional development programme by the current Directors of the 
Company  in  year  2015  relevant  to  the  directors’  duties  and  responsibilities,  regulatory  updates  and  business,  financial 
and operational matters of the Group.

executive Directors
Mr. Tung Chee Chen
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan

Non-executive Director
Professor Roger King

independent Non-executive Directors
Mr. Simon Murray
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard
Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward
Mr. Kwok King Man Clement

reading materials

attending external
seminars/briefings

3
3
3

3

3
3
3
3
3

3

3
3
3

Note: Ms. Lammy Lee, the Company Secretary of the Company, undertook no less than fifteen hours of professional training in year 2015 to 

update her skills and knowledge.

6.  Supply of and access to information

All  Directors  have  access  to  the  Board’s  and  the  Committees’  papers  and  other  materials  either  from  the  Company 
Secretary or the Chairman so that they are able to make informed decisions on matters placed before them.

7.  Nomination of Directors

The  Nomination  Committee  was  established  in  2012.  The  Committee  reviews  the  structure,  size  and  composition 
(including  the  skills,  knowledge,  experience  and  from  diversity  perspective)  of  the  Board  regularly  and  makes 
recommendation  to  the  Board.  The  Company  follows  a  formal,  considered  and  transparent  procedure  for  the 
appointment  of  new  Directors  to  the  Board.  The  appointment  of  a  new  Director  is  a  collective  decision  of  the  Board, 
taking  into  consideration  the  expertise,  experience,  integrity  and  commitment  of  that  appointee  to  the  principal 
division, the Company and the Group.

Each  Director  shall,  after  his  appointment  and  semi-annually  thereafter,  disclose  to  the  Board  the  number  and  nature 
of  offices  held  by  such  Director  in  other  public  companies  and  organisations  and  any  other  significant  commitments, 
together with the identity of the public companies and organisations and an indication of time involved.

At the annual general meeting of the Company held on 30th April 2015 (the “2014 AGM”), Professor Roger King, Mr. 
Chang Tsann Rong Ernest and Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward retired and were re-elected as Directors of the Company.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

57

Corporate Governance Report8.  Board Committees

In  addition  to  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee  and  the  Nomination  Committee  established  in 
compliance with the Listing Rules, the other committees comprise of the Executive Committee, the Finance Committee, 
the  Share  Committee,  the  Compliance  Committee,  the  Inside  Information  Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee 
(established  on  7th  August  2015).  Each  committee  has  its  own  well  defined  scope  of  duties  and  terms  of  reference. 
The  terms  of  reference  of  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee  and  the  Nomination  Committee  are 
available  on  the  Company’s  website  and  the  HKExnews  website.  The  Company  Secretary  shall  also  make  available  the 
terms of reference of all the committees to any shareholder upon receipt of a written request from such shareholder. The 
members of a committee are empowered to make decisions on matters within the terms of reference of such committee. 
Copies of all signed minutes of the committees are sent to the members of the respective committees and the Directors 
of the Company for their records.

a.  executive Committee

The Executive Committee was established in 1996. All its members are Executive Directors. It currently comprises 
of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  (chairman  of  the  Executive  Committee),  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew  and  Mr.  Tung 
Lieh Sing Alan, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of the Executive Committee.

The  Executive  Committee  operates  as  an  executive  management  committee  under  the  direct  authority  of  the 
Board. Its primary duties include to:

– 

formulate strategies and policies and to set corporate and management targets and operational initiatives and 
policies on risk management for the principal division of the Group and plans and operational directions for 
the Group;

–  monitor,  control  and  manage  operational  and  financial  performance  and  business  affairs  of  the  principal 

division of the Group;

– 

– 

– 

– 

review,  discuss  and  approve  (if  appropriate)  (i)  press  announcements,  circulars  and  other  documents 
(including  inside  information  and  financial  information)  required  to  be  disclosed  pursuant  to  the  Listing 
Rules,  regulatory  or  statutory  requirements;  (ii)  submissions  from  the  Compliance  Committee,  the  Finance 
Committee  and  the  Share  Committee  and,  if  appropriate,  to  recommend  to  the  Board  for  consideration  and 
approval;

approve capital expenditure for a specified amount;

liaise  and  consult  with,  advise  and  make  recommendations  to  its  subsidiaries  and  make  such  decisions  with 
regard thereto as the Executive Committee shall in its absolute discretion think fit, and refer such matters as it 
thinks fit to the Board of the Company for consideration, approval and/or ratification, if necessary; and to

report to the Board on its decisions, and any matter in respect of which it considers that action is needed, and 
its recommendations as to the steps to be taken.

b.  audit Committee

The  Audit  Committee  was  established  in  1992.  All  its  members  are  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors.  It 
currently comprises of Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard (chairman of the Audit Committee), Mr. Simon Murray, 
Mr.  Cheng  Wai  Sun  Edward,  Mr.  Kwok  King  Man  Clement  (appointed  as  a  member  of  the  Audit  Committee  on 
2nd  July  2015)  and  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah  (appointed  as  a  member  of  the  Audit  Committee  on  31st  August 
2015), with Mr. Fung Yee Chung Vincent, the Head of Internal Audit as the secretary of the Audit Committee and 
Ms. Lammy Lee as the assistant secretary of the Audit Committee.

The  Audit  Committee  is  delegated  by  the  Board  with  the  responsibility  to  provide  an  independent  review  and 
supervision of financial reporting and to ensure the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and the adequacy 
of the external and internal audit. To perform its duties, the Audit Committee is provided with sufficient resources 
and  is  supported  by  the  Internal  Audit  Department  to  examine  all  matters  relating  to  the  Group’s  adopted 
accounting principles and practices and to review all material financial, operational and compliance controls. The 
terms of reference of the Audit Committee are posted on the Company’s website.

58 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Corporate Governance ReportThe primary duties of the Audit Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

recommend  to  the  Board  on  the  appointment,  re-appointment  and  removal  of  the  external  auditor,  and  to 
approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor, and any question of its resignation 
or dismissal;

act as the key representative body overseeing the Company’s relation with the external auditor;

seek from the external auditor, on an annual basis, information about policies and processes for maintaining 
independence  and  monitoring  compliance  with  relevant  requirements,  including  provision  of  non-audit 
services and requirements regarding rotation of audit partners and staff;

discuss  with  the  external  auditor  any  recommendation  arising  from  the  audit,  and  to  review  the  external 
auditor’s  management  letter,  any  material  queries  raised  by  the  external  auditor  to  management  about 
accounting  records,  financial  accounts  or  systems  of  control  and  management’s  response,  and  to  ensure  that 
the Board will provide timely response to the issues raised in the external auditor’s management letter;

establish  and  review  from  time  to  time  the  procedure  to  review  and  monitor  the  external  auditor’s 
independence and objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process and the scope of the external auditor, 
and to discuss and understand the factors considered by the external auditor in determining the scope of the 
audit and reporting obligations before the audit commences;

establish and review from time to time the policy relating to hiring of employees or former employees of the 
external auditor and monitor the application of such policy; and to consider whether as a result of such hiring 
there has been any impairment of the auditor’s judgment or independence in respect of the audit;

establish  and  review from  time to time the policy on engaging external auditor to supply non-audit services 
and  to  review  such  services  do  not  impair  the  external  auditor’s  independence  or  objectivity  in  relation  to 
non-audit  services  including  whether  the  skills  and  experience  of  the  external  auditor  make  it  a  suitable 
supplier  of  non-audit  services;  whether  there  are  safeguards  in  place  to  ensure  that  there  is  no  threat  to  the 
objectivity  and  independence  of  the  audit  because  the  external  auditor  provides  non-audit  services;  and 
the  nature  of  non-audit  services,  the  related  fee  levels  and  fee  levels  individually  and  in  total  relative  to  the 
external auditor;

review the Group’s financial and accounting policies and practices;

review  the  Company’s  annual,  quarterly  (if  prepared  for  publication)  and  interim  financial  reports  and 
significant financial reporting judgments contained in them, with particular focus on changes in accounting 
policies  and  practices,  major  judgmental  areas,  any  significant  audit  adjustment,  the  going  concern 
assumption  and  any  qualification,  compliance  with  any  applicable  legal  requirements  and  accounting 
standards, and compliance with the requirements of the Listing Rules and other legal requirements in relation 
to financial reporting;

consider  any  significant  or  unusual  item  that  is,  or  may  need  to  be,  reflected  in  the  reports  and  accounts 
and to give due consideration to any matter that has been raised by the Financial Compliance Officer of the 
Company,  the  external  auditor,  the  Head  of  Internal  Audit  or  the  staff  responsible  for  the  accounting  and 
financial reporting function;

review  with  the  Group’s  management,  the  external  auditor  and  the  internal  auditor,  the  adequacy  of  the 
Group’s  policies  and  procedures  regarding  internal  control  system  (including  financial,  operational  and 
compliance  controls)  and  risk  management  system  to  ensure  that  such  systems  are  effective  with  audit  trails 
to protect the accuracy and integrity of financial data and to pursue relevant enquiries into matters having, or 
likely to have, a material effect on the business and financial conditions of the Group. The result of the review 
is to be reported in the Corporate Governance Report of the Company, including a Directors’ statement that 
they have conducted a review of its internal control system;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

59

Corporate Governance Report– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

discuss  with  the  management  the  scope  and  quality  of  the  internal  control  system  and  to  ensure  that 
management  has  performed  its  duty  to  have  an  effective  internal  control  system  including  the  adequacy  of 
resources,  staff  qualification  and  experience,  training  programmes  and  budget  and  experience  of  staff  of  the 
accounting and financial reporting function;

review findings of internal investigation and management’s response of any suspected frauds or irregularities 
or failures of internal control or infringements of laws, rules and regulations;

review  the  scope  and  effectiveness  of  the  internal  audit  functions  and  to  review  the  results  of  the  internal 
audit  functions  regularly  with  the  internal  auditor  matters  including  planning  of  the  Audit  Committee 
meetings and, if required by the internal auditor, the internal audit programme; and to ensure co-ordination 
between  the  internal  and  external  auditors  and  that  the  internal  audit  function  is  adequately  resourced  and 
has appropriate standing within the Company and to review and monitor its effectiveness;

review  the  effectiveness  and  monitor  the  use  of  the  whistleblowing  policy  and  procedures  for  employees  to 
raise  concerns,  in  confidence,  to  the  Audit  Committee  about  improprieties  in  financial  reporting,  internal 
control  and  other  matters;  and  to  ensure  that  proper  arrangements  are  in  place  for  fair  and  independent 
investigation of these improprieties and for appropriate follow-up action;

report to the Board on the matters raised in the SEHK Code; and to

report to the Board, identifying and making recommendations on any matter where action or improvement is 
needed and to consider other topics identified and referred to the Audit Committee by the Board.

Under  the  Group’s  whistleblowing  policy,  employees  may  report  any  concern  regarding  accounting,  internal 
accounting controls and auditing matters to the Audit Committee without fear of dismissal or retaliation, in order 
to  ensure  that  the  Group  complies  with  all  the  applicable  laws  and  regulations,  accounting  standards,  accounting 
controls and audit practices. The Audit Committee will review each complaint and decide on how the investigation 
should be conducted. In year 2015, the Audit Committee received no complaint from employees.

The Audit Committee held two meetings during the year ended 31st December 2015. The following is a summary 
of work performed by the Audit Committee during the year 2015:

(i) 

reviewed  and  discussed  the  annual  accounts  for  2014  and  the  interim  accounts  for  2015  with  the  external 
auditor and management of the Company, with recommendations to the Board for approval;

(ii)  reviewed the significant audit and accounting issues arising from the external auditor’s statutory audit of the 

2014 annual accounts and issues arising from the review of the 2015 interim accounts;

(iii)  reviewed the impact of the new and revised accounting standards on the Company;

(iv)  reviewed the external auditor’s audit strategy and approach;

(v)  reviewed the non-audit services provided by the external auditor in 2014;

(vi)  met with the external auditor without the presence of the management to discuss issues from the audits and 

any other matters the external auditor might raise;

(vii)  reviewed the Internal Audit Department’s audit objectives and approval of the annual internal audit plan;

(viii)  reviewed  the  findings  and  recommendations  of  the  Internal  Audit  Department  on  the  audits  carried  out  on 

the principal activities of the Group during the year 2014;

60 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Corporate Governance Report(ix)  reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems;

(x)  reviewed  the  relevant  sections  in  the  Corporate  Governance  Report  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2014 

concerning the Audit Committee;

(xi)  reviewed the adequacy of the resources, staff qualifications and experience, training programmes and budget 

of the Company’s accounting and financial reporting function;

(xii)  reviewed the continuing connected transactions and their annual caps; and

(xiii)  reviewed the continuous implementation of the whistleblowing policy.

The minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are prepared by the secretary of the Audit Committee with details 
of all matters considered by the attendees and of decisions reached, including any concern raised by the attendees 
and  dissenting  views  expressed.  The  final  version  of  the  minutes  is  sent  to  the  attendees  for  their  records.  The 
minutes are open for inspection by the Committee members and the Board members.

c.  remuneration Committee

The Remuneration Committee was established in 2005. A majority of its members are Independent Non-Executive 
Directors.  It  currently  comprises  of  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah  (appointed  as  a  member  and  the  chairman  of  the 
Remuneration  Committee  on  2nd  February  2015  and  9th  March  2015  respectively),  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  and 
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of the Remuneration Committee.

The primary duties of the Remuneration Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review  and  recommend  to  the  Board  on  the  Company’s  policy  and  structure  of  the  remuneration  of  the 
Directors  of  the  Company,  senior  management  and  employees  of  the  Group  including  performance-based 
bonus  scheme  on  the  basis  that  they  are  fairly  but  responsibly  rewarded  for  their  individual  contribution  to 
the overall performance of the Company;

establish and review a formal and transparent procedure for developing remuneration policy;

(i)  review  and  approve  the  management’s  remuneration  proposals  with  reference  to  the  Board’s  corporate 
goals  and  objectives;  and  determine  with  delegated  responsibilities  the  remuneration  packages  of  individual 
Executive  Directors  of  the  Company  and  senior  management;  and  (ii)  recommend  to  the  Board  on  the 
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

consult the Chairman of the Board and/or Chief Executive Officer of the Company about their remuneration 
proposals for the other Executive Directors of the Company and senior management;

review and approve compensation payable to the Executive Directors of the Company and senior management 
for any loss or termination of office or appointment to ensure that it is consistent with contractual terms and 
is otherwise fair and not excessive;

review and approve compensation arrangements relating to dismissal or removal of Directors for misconduct 
to ensure that they are consistent with contractual terms and are otherwise reasonable and appropriate;

ensure  that  no  Director  or  any  of  his  associates  or  senior  management  is  involved  in  deciding  his  own 
remuneration; and to

advise  the  Board  any  matter  relating  to  the  remuneration  or  reward  of  the  Executive  Directors  of  the 
Company or senior management or employees of the Group.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

61

Corporate Governance ReportThe  Remuneration  Committee  held  six  meetings  during  the  year  ended  31st  December  2015.  The  following  is  a 
summary of work performed by the Remuneration Committee during the year 2015, including:

(i) 

reviewed the Company’s policy and remuneration structure for the Directors of the Company, and the senior 
management and employees of the Group;

(ii)  reviewed the procedure for developing remuneration policy;

(iii)  reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  the  director’s  fees  and  committee  member’s  fees  for  certain 

Directors of the Company;

(iv)  reviewed  the  discretionary  management  bonus  of  the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Company,  and  the  senior 

management and employees of the Group for the year 2014; and

(v)  reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  or  determined  with  delegated  responsibilities,  as  the  case  may  be, 
in accordance with the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, the remuneration packages of the 
Directors of the Company, and the senior management of the Group for the year 2015.

No Director was involved in determining his own remuneration.

d.  Nomination Committee

The  Nomination  Committee  was  established  in  2012.  A  majority  of  its  members  are  Independent  Non-Executive 
Directors.  It  currently  comprises  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  (chairman  of  the  Nomination  Committee),  Mr.  Chow 
Philip  Yiu  Wah  (appointed  as  a  member  of  the  Nomination  Committee  on  2nd  February  2015)  and  Professor 
Wong Yue Chim Richard, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of the Nomination Committee.

The primary duties of the Nomination Committee include to:

– 

review and make recommendation to the Board on the Company’s policy for nomination of Directors;

– 

– 

– 

– 

establish  and  review  a  formal,  considered  and  transparent  procedures  for  the  appointment  of  new  directors 
and have plans in place for orderly succession for appointments;

review  and  report  annually  on  implementation  of  the  board  diversity  policy  of  the  Company  (the  “Board 
Diversity Policy”), and progress (if relevant);

review  the  structure,  size  and  composition  (including  the  skills,  knowledge,  experience  and  from  diversity 
perspective)  of  the  Board  at  least  annually  and  recommend  on  any  proposed  change  to  the  Board  to 
complement the Company’s corporate strategy;

identify,  nominate  and  recommend  to  the  Board  suitably  qualified  candidate,  based  on  meritocracy  and  the 
Board  Diversity  Policy  appropriate  for  the  Group’s  business  and  specific  needs,  to  become  a  director  of  the 
Company either to fill a casual vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board;

62 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Corporate Governance Report– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

recommend  to  the  Board  on  the  appointment  or  re-appointment/re-election  of  Directors  and  succession 
planning for Directors to maintain a balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of perspectives of 
the Board;

assess and report to the Board the qualifications of any person proposed by a shareholder of the Company for 
election as a director of the Company to ensure compliance with the nomination policy of the Company and 
the requirements as provided in the Listing Rules are satisfied;

assess the independence of Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

regularly  review  and  report  to  the  Board  the  contribution  required  from  a  Director  of  the  Company  to 
perform his responsibilities and whether he is spending sufficient time performing them; and to

assess performance of the Executive Directors and conduct a regular evaluation of the Board’s performance by 
a member of the Nomination Committee, who is an Independent Non-Executive Director, and report results 
of the evaluation to the Board.

The  Nomination  Committee  held  five  meetings  during  the  year  ended  31st  December  2015.  The  following  is  a 
summary of work performed by the Nomination Committee during the year 2015, including:

(i) 

reviewed the Company’s policy for nomination of Directors;

(ii)  reviewed procedures for appointment of new Directors and plans for orderly succession;

(iii)  reviewed the implementation of the Board Diversity Policy of the Company;

(iv)  reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board of the Company;

(v)  reviewed and recommended to the Board the changes in the directorship and officership of the Company, the 
changes in the membership of certain committees of the Company and the nomination of the membership of 
a new committee of the Company;

(vi)  recommended re-election of the retiring directors at the annual general meeting of the Company held on 30th 

April 2015;

(vii)  assessed independence of the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

(viii)  reviewed the contribution of the Directors of the Company for the year 2014; and

(ix)  evaluated performance of the Board and assessed performance of the Executive Directors of the Company by 
a member of the Nomination Committee who is an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company in 
accordance with the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee.

The Board Diversity Policy is summarized as follows:

– 

the  Company  ensures  that  its  Board  has  the  appropriate  balance  of  skills,  experience  and  diversity  of 
perspective of the Board requires to support the execution of its business strategy and in order for the Board 
to be effective;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

63

Corporate Governance Report– 

selection  of  candidates  will  be  based  on  a  range  of  perspectives,  including  but  not  limited  to  age,  culture 
and  educational  background,  ethnicity,  industry  experience,  skills,  knowledge  and  length  of  service.  The 
Board’s appointment should be based on meritocracy and diversity of perspectives appropriate for the Group’s 
business and specific needs and the contribution that the selected candidates will bring to the Board; and

– 

the  Nomination  Committee  will  take  into  consideration  of  the  Board  Diversity  Policy  in  identifying  and 
nominating suitably qualified candidates to become members of the Board.

e.  Compliance Committee

The  Compliance  Committee  was  established  in  2004  and  currently  comprises  of  Ms.  Lammy  Lee  (chairperson  of 
the Compliance Committee), Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan, Mr. Mok Yun Lee Paul and Mr. Fung Yee Chung Vincent. 
The Board has delegated the responsibility for monitoring the corporate governance compliance to the Compliance 
Committee.

The primary duties of the Compliance Committee include to:

– 

review, monitor and provide administrative support on the compliance control of the Group and compliance 
of the following corporate governance functions of the Company:

(a)  on  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  corporate  governance  and  make  recommendations  to  the 

Board;

(b)  on  the  training  and  continuous  professional  development  of  Directors  and  senior  management  of  the 

Group;

(c)  on the Company’s policies and practices on compliance with legal and regulatory requirements;

(d)  on the development of the code of conduct and compliance manuals (if any) applicable to employees of 

the Group and Directors of the Company;

(e)  on the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and the SEHK Code;

(f) 

to report the above items (a) to (e) to the Board regularly; and

– 

– 

(g) 

to  prepare  (i)  the  Corporate  Governance  Report  covering  all  mandatory  disclosure  requirements  as  set 
out in the Listing Rules; and/or (ii) information required to be disclosed by the Compliance Committee 
in  the  Company’s  results  announcements,  the  annual  reports,  the  interim  reports  and  any  other 
documents, pursuant to the Listing Rules;

review  and  report  to  the  Board  regularly  the  shareholders’  communication  policy  to  ensure  its  effectiveness; 
and to

ensure the Company is in compliance with the Listing Rules including disclosure and compliance obligations 
for  matters  including  notifiable  transactions,  connected  transactions,  continuing  connected  transactions, 
advance  to  an  entity,  financial  assistance  and  guarantees  to  affiliated  companies  of  the  Company,  loan 
agreements  with  covenants  relating  to  specific  performance  of  the  controlling  shareholder  of  the  Company, 
breach of a loan agreement by the Company, disclosure of financial information pursuant to Appendix 16 to 
the Listing Rules, and general obligations of disclosure under Rule 13.09 of the Listing Rules.

64 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Corporate Governance ReportThe Compliance Committee held two meetings and passed resolutions by way of written resolution during the year 
ended 31st December 2015. The following is a summary of work performed by the Compliance Committee during 
the year 2015, including:

(i) 

reviewed  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  corporate  governance  and  made  recommendations  to  the 
Board;

(ii)  reviewed  and  reported  to  the  Board  on  the  amendments  to  the  Listing  Rules  and  the  impacts  of  new  Hong 

Kong Companies Ordinance;

(iii)  reviewed and monitored the training and continuous professional development of Directors of the Company;

(iv)  reviewed  and  monitored  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  compliance  with  legal  and  regulatory 

requirements, particularly on legal, financial and accounting, internal control and audit;

(v)  reviewed and monitored the code of conduct and compliance manuals (if any) applicable to employees of the 

Group and Directors of the Company;

(vi)  reviewed the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and the SEHK Code and the disclosure requirements 

in the Corporate Governance Report;

(vii)  reviewed and reported to the Board on the effectiveness of the shareholders’ communication policy; and

(viii) reviewed and reported to the Board on the notifiable transactions, continuing connected transactions and the 

significant contracts of the Group.

f.  finance Committee

The Finance Committee was established in 1993 and currently comprises of Professor Roger King and Mr. Chow 
Philip Yiu Wah, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of the Finance Committee.

The primary duties of the Finance Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

assist in the financial requirements of the Group including financing, refinancing, leasing, purchase and sale 
of vessels, properties and equipment and the financing of the business operations of the Group;

report to the Board on its decisions, and any matter in respect of which it considers that action is needed, and 
its recommendation as to the steps to be taken; and to

discuss  and  review  the  disclosure  obligations  of  the  Company  on  financial,  accounting  or  related  issues 
on  compliance  with  the  Listing  Rules  and  refer  transactions  with  their  recommendations  to  the  Executive 
Committee of the Company for its endorsement and/or approval.

g.  Share Committee

The  Share  Committee  was  established  in  1992  and  currently  comprises  of  Professor  Roger  King  (appointed  as  a 
member of the Share Committee on 2nd February 2015) and Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah, with Ms. Lammy Lee as 
the secretary of the Share Committee.

The primary duties of the Share Committee include to:

– 

deal  with  and  grant  approval  on  the  removal  of  the  ordinary  shares  of  the  Company  from  the  Principal 
Register in Bermuda to the Branch Register in Hong Kong or vice versa;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

65

Corporate Governance Report– 

– 

– 

deal  with  share  transactions  including,  but  not  limited  to  share  repurchases,  issue  of  bonus  shares,  scrip 
dividend schemes, top up placings, share subscriptions and placement of the Company’s shares;

give  authorisation  to  the  Company’s  Principal  Registrar  and  Branch  Registrar  to  issue  share  certificates  to 
shareholders who have reported loss of share certificates and in connection with the above share transactions; 
and to

discuss and review the disclosure obligations of the Company on share transactions and compliance with the 
Listing Rules.

h. 

inside information Committee

The  Inside  Information  Committee  was  established  in  2013  and  currently  comprises  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen 
(chairman  of  the  Inside  Information  Committee),  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew,  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan  and 
Ms. Lammy Lee.

The primary duties of the Inside Information Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

ensure proper systems and control are in place to collect, review and verify potential inside information;

identify, assess and escalate potential inside information to the attention of the Board; report to the Board on 
the  recommendation  of  the  Inside  Information  Committee,  and  any  matter  in  respect  of  which  it  considers 
that  action  is  needed,  and  its  recommendation  as  to  the  actions  to  be  taken  and  what  information  to  be 
disclosed;

vet and clear announcements or other public disclosures; and to

supervise the Company’s compliance with continuing disclosure obligations.

i.  risk Committee

The  Risk  Committee  was  established  in  2015  and  currently  comprises  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  (chairman  of  the 
Risk Committee), Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew, Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan, Professor Roger King and Mr. Chow 
Philip Yiu Wah, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of the Risk Committee.

The primary duties of the Risk Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

establish  risk  appetite,  risk  management  strategy,  and  a  strong  and  independent  internal  control  and  review 
systems;

align strategic direction and business objective of the Group with risk appetite;

oversight on adequacy of the Group’s risk management policies, process and system. In pursuing the Group’s 
strategic direction and business objective, aims to optimize risk and return;

identify, assess and manage principal risks to pursue the Group’s strategic and business objective; and to

provide direction on the importance of risk management and risk management culture.

66 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Corporate Governance Report9.  attendance records of Board Meetings, Board Committees Meetings and General Meetings

The attendance records of each Director and each member of the following Board Committees at the relevant meetings 
held in year 2015 are as follows:

actual attendance/Number of Meetings a Director is entitled to attend

Board

audit
Committee

remuneration
Committee

Nomination
Committee

Compliance
Committee

No. of meetings held during the year

executive Directors
Mr. Tung Chee Chen

(Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer)

Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan (Chief Financial Officer)

Non-executive Director
Professor Roger King

independent Non-executive Directors
Mr. Simon Murray
Mr. Chang Tsann Rong Ernest(Note 1)
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah(Note 2)
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard
Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward
Mr. Kwok King Man Clement(Note 3)

others
Ms. Lammy Lee (Company Secretary)
Mr. Mok Yun Lee Paul (Group Financial Controller)
Mr. Fung Yee Chung Vincent (Chief Auditor)

7

7/7

7/7
7/7

7/7

5/7
5/5
7/7
6/7
7/7
3/3

–
–
–

2

–

–
–

–

1/2
2/2
–
2/2
2/2
1/1

–
–
–

6

6/6

–
–

–

–
2/2
5/5
6/6
–
–

–
–
–

5

5/5

–
–

–

–
2/2
4/4
5/5
–
–

–
–
–

2

–

–
2/2

–

–
–
–
–
–
–

2/2
2/2
2/2

2014 
aGM

1

1/1

1/1
1/1

1/1

0/1
1/1
1/1
0/1
1/1
N/A

–
–
–

Average attendance rate

95.71%

90%

100%

100%

100%

77.78%

Notes:

(1)  Mr.  Chang  Tsann  Rong  Ernest  (i)  ceased  as  the  chairman  and  member  of  the  Remuneration  Committee,  and  as  a  member  of  the 

Nomination Committee, the Finance Committee and the Share Committee, all with effect from 9th March 2015; and (ii) resigned as an 

Independent Non-Executive Director and ceased as a member of the Audit Committee, both with effect from 31st August 2015.

(2)  Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah was (i) re-designated from a Non-Executive Director to an Independent Non-Executive Director with effect 

from 2nd January 2015; (ii) appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee, both with effect 

from 2nd February 2015, the chairman of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 9th March 2015, and a member of the Audit 

Committee with effect from 31st August 2015.

(3)  Mr.  Kwok  King  Man  Clement  was  appointed  as  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  and  a  member  of  the  Audit  Committee,  both 

with effect from 2nd July 2015.

10.  Securities transactions by Directors

The  Company  has  adopted  its  own  code  of  conduct  regarding  securities  transactions  by  Directors  on  terms  no  less 
exacting than the required standard set out in the Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers 
(the “Model Code”) contained in Appendix 10 to the Listing Rules.

All  Directors  have  confirmed,  following  specific  enquiry  by  the  Company,  that  they  have  fully  complied  with  the 
required  standards  set  out  in  both  the  Company’s  own  code  and  the  Model  Code  for  the  year  ended  31st  December 
2015.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

67

Corporate Governance Report 
11.  Share interests of Directors and Senior Management

a.  Directors

Directors’ interests in the shares of the Company are set out on pages 76 and 77 of this annual report.

b.  Senior Management

As at 31st December 2015, the number of shares of the Company held by the senior management of the Group are 
as follows:

Name

Mr. Michael Fitzgerald
Mr. Raymond Fung
Mr. Teddy Fung
Mr. Michael Kwok*
Ms. Lammy Lee
Mr. Stephen Ng
Mr. Steve Siu
Mr. Erxin Yao
Mr. Kenny Ye

* 

retired on 1st January 2016

Number of shares held

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
5,000
500

12.  emoluments of Directors and Senior Management(Note 1)

a.  emoluments of Directors

The emoluments of the Directors of the Company for the year ended 31st December 2015 are set out on page 113 
of this annual report.

b.  emoluments of Senior Management

The emoluments of the senior management of the Group for the year ended 31st December 2015 are set out below:

emolument bands (US$)

0 – 64,102
384,601 – 448,700
448,701 – 512,800

Total

Notes:

Number of individuals 2015

3(Note 2)
2
4

9

(1) 

biographical details of senior management are set out on pages 48 and 49 of this annual report.

(2) 

designated as senior management during the year 2015 with emolument bands on a pro-rata basis.

68 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Corporate Governance ReportB.  aCCoUNtaBilitY aND aUDit

1.  external auditor

PricewaterhouseCoopers  was  re-appointed  as  the  Company’s  external  auditor  by  shareholders  at  the  2014  AGM  until 
the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.

The Company has established a policy on appointment of external auditor in providing non-audit services, setting out 
the principles by which an external auditor may be appointed to provide non-audit services, with a view to ensuring the 
independence of the external auditor.

The fee in respect of audit and non-audit services provided by the external auditor to the Company for the year ended 
31st December 2015 is set out on page 115 note 11 to the consolidated financial statements of this annual report.

2.  Directors’ and auditor’s acknowledgement

All  Directors  acknowledge  their  responsibilities  for  preparing  the  consolidated  financial  statements  for  the  year  ended 
31st December 2015.

PricewaterhouseCoopers,  the  external  auditor  of  the  Company,  acknowledges  the  reporting  responsibilities  in  the 
auditor’s report on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2015.

3.  internal Controls

The  Board  is  responsible  for  maintaining  sound  and  effective  internal  control  systems  for  the  Group,  and  through  the 
Audit Committee, conducts reviews of the effectiveness of such systems at least annually, covering all material controls 
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management functions. The process used in reviewing 
the  effectiveness  of  these  internal  control  systems  includes  discussion  with  management  on  risk  areas  identified  by 
management of the Company and principal division of the Group and review of significant issues arising from internal 
and  external  audits.  The  Company’s  internal  control  systems  comprise  a  well  established  organisational  structure  and 
comprehensive  policies  and  standards.  Procedures  have  been  designed  to  safeguard  assets  against  unauthorised  use  or 
disposition, to maintain proper accounting records, for assurance of the reliability of financial information for internal 
use  or  publication,  and  to  ensure  compliance  with  applicable  laws  and  regulations.  The  purpose  of  the  Company’s 
internal  control  is  to  provide  reasonable,  but  not  absolute,  assurance  against  material  misstatement  or  loss  and  to 
manage rather than eliminate risks of failure in operational systems and achievement of the Company’s objectives.

The Board has established the following measures to provide effective internal controls:

– 

– 

– 

– 

a  distinct  organisational  structure  for  the  principal  division  with  defined  authority  responsibilities  and  control/
measures;

an  annual  budget  for  the  principal  division  allocating  resources  in  accordance  with  identified  and  prioritised 
business opportunities. The annual budget for the principal division is approved by the Board on an annual basis;

a  comprehensive  management  accounting  system  for  the  principal  division  to  provide  financial  and  operational 
performance  indicators  to  the  relevant  management,  and  financial  information  for  reporting  and  disclosure 
purposes. Actual operational results are measured against budget each month. Detailed forecasts for the year and 
long-term forecasts of profit and loss, cash flow and balance sheets are regularly reviewed and updated. Variances 
to budget are analysed and explained and appropriate action taken, if necessary;

systems and procedures are in place to identify, measure, manage and control risks including business, compliance, 
operational,  financial  and  information  services  risks  that  may  have  an  impact  on  the  Group  and  the  principal 
division.  Exposure  to  these  risks  is  monitored  by  the  Executive  Committee  and  the  management  of  the  principal 
division;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

69

Corporate Governance Report– 

– 

clearly defined procedures are in place for the control of capital and major expenditure commitments, off-balance 
sheet financial instruments and the supervision, control and review of the investment portfolio; and

the  Internal  Audit  Department  performs  independent  reviews  of  the  risks  and  controls  identified  to  provide 
reasonable  assurance  to  management  of  the  Company  and  principal  division  and  the  Audit  Committee  that 
controls have been set in place and adequately addressed.

The  internal  audit  function,  which  is  centrally  controlled,  monitors  compliance  with  policies  and  standards  as  well  as 
the  effectiveness  of  internal  control  structures  across  the  Company  and  the  Group.  To  preserve  the  independence  of 
the internal audit function, the Head of Internal Audit reports functionally to the Audit Committee whose chairman is 
an Independent Non-Executive Director who has direct access to the Board. Using a risk-based approach, the Internal 
Audit  Department  plans  its  internal  audit  schedules  annually  in  consultation  with,  but  independent  of,  management 
of  the  Company  and  the  principal  division.  The  Internal  Audit  Department  has  unrestricted  access  to  information 
that  allows  it  to  review  all  aspects  of  the  Group’s  risk  management,  control  and  governance  processes.  Independent 
reviews of different financial, business and functional operations and activities are conducted with audit resources being 
focused on high risk areas. Ad hoc reviews are also conducted on areas of concern identified by the Audit Committee 
and  management  of  the  Company  and  the  principal  division.  The  management  of  the  Company  and  the  principal 
division including the affected subsidiary are notified of the deficiencies noted for rectification, and the Internal Audit 
Department follows up with the implementation of audit recommendations.

The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board assesses the effectiveness of the internal control system including detecting 
fraud  and  other  irregularities  by  reviewing  the  Internal  Audit  Department’s  work  and  findings.  On  a  yearly  basis,  the 
Internal Audit Department summarises the major audit findings and other relevant information that have come to the 
Internal Audit Department’s attention during the course of the audits and reports to the Audit Committee.

According to the 2015 Internal Audit report, the Group’s internal control system is functioning effectively, there was no 
significant weakness found in the course of the audits carried out during the year, and there is no change in the nature 
and  extent  of  significant  risks  as  well  as  the  scope  and  quality  of  management’s  ongoing  monitoring  of  the  risks  and 
the  internal  control  system.  The  Audit  Committee  has  concluded  that  the  Group  has  maintained  sound  and  effective 
internal  controls  to  safeguard  the  Group’s  assets,  and  there  is  an  ongoing  process  in  place  for  identifying,  evaluating 
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The Board, therefore, is of the view that there are no significant 
frauds,  irregularities,  internal  control  deficiencies  or  suspected  infringement  of  laws,  rules  and  regulations  that  cause 
the Board to believe that the systems of internal control are ineffective or inadequate, and there are no significant areas 
of concern which may affect shareholders. The Board is satisfied that the Company and the Group have fully complied 
with the code provisions on internal control as set forth in the SEHK Code for the year ended 31st December 2015.

To  ensure  on-going  compliance  with  the  SEHK  Code,  the  Audit  Committee  reviewed  the  adequacy  of  staffing  of  the 
accounting  and  financial  reporting  function  on  behalf  of  the  Board  and  was  satisfied  with  the  adequacy  of  resources, 
staff  qualifications  and  experience,  training  programmes  and  budget  of  the  Company’s  accounting  and  financial 
reporting function.

The  Company  has  implemented  the  following  procedures  and  internal  controls  for  the  handling  and  dissemination  of 
inside information:

a) 

it monitors any inside information and makes appropriate announcement as required by the Listing Rules;

b) 

it conducts its affairs by reference to the “Guidelines on Disclosure of Inside Information” issued by the Securities 
and Futures Commission;

c) 

it has established procedures for handling external affairs about the Group; and

d) 

it has established guidelines to be followed by senior management and employees in dealing with confidential and 
inside information.

70 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Corporate Governance ReportC.  CoMMUNiCatioN WitH SHareHolDerS

The  Company  attaches  great  importance  to  communications  with  shareholders.  Extensive  information  on  the  Group’s 
activities,  business  strategies  and  developments  is  provided  in  the  Company’s  annual  reports  and  interim  reports. 
Shareholders  of  the  Company  are  encouraged  to  attend  the  annual  general  meetings  of  the  Company  which  offer  a 
valuable  forum  for  dialogue  and  interaction  with  management.  The  Chairman  of  the  Board  and  the  chairpersons  of  the 
Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee,  the  Nomination  Committee  and  other  Board  committees,  or  in  their 
absence,  another  member  of  the  relevant  committee,  are  available  at  the  annual  general  meetings  to  answer  questions  from 
shareholders on the business of the Group. A separate resolution is proposed by the Chairman in respect of each issue at the 
general meetings.

The  Company  has  also  established  a  shareholders’  communication  policy  to  ensure  shareholders  are  provided  with  ready, 
equal and timely access to balanced and understandable information about the Company. The policy is regularly reviewed to 
ensure its effectiveness and is available on written request to the Company Secretary.

The most recent shareholders’ meeting of the Company was the 2014 AGM held at Dynasty Room, 7th Floor, The Dynasty 
Club,  South  West  Tower,  Convention  Plaza,  1  Harbour  Road,  Wanchai,  Hong  Kong  on  30th  April  2015,  at  which  the 
following ordinary resolutions were passed with the voting results as follows:

ordinary resolutions

1.

To consider and adopt the audited Financial Statements and
the Reports of the Directors and the Auditor
for the year ended 31st December 2014.

2.

To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31st December 2014.

3(a). To re-elect Professor Roger King as Director.

3(b). To re-elect Mr. Chang Tsann Rong Ernest as Director.

3(c). To re-elect Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward as Director.

4.

5.

To authorise the Board of Directors to fix the Directors’ remuneration.

To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers as Auditor and to authorise
the Board of Directors to fix their remuneration.

6(a). To grant a general mandate to the Directors to allot, issue and

deal with the Company’s shares.

6(b). To grant a general mandate to the Directors to repurchase

the Company’s shares.

6(c). To extend the general mandate to issue shares to cover the shares 

repurchased by the Company under Resolution No. 6(b).

Number of Votes (%)

for

against

529,036,229
(99.999716%)

529,408,229
(99.999717%)

505,571,449
(95.495663%)

526,989,423
(99.541231%)

528,694,729
(99.863341%)

528,829,222
(99.890348%)

508,181,349
(95.990179%)

442,493,205
(83.582371%)

528,763,229
(99.970978%)

442,617,139
(83.683710%)

1,500
(0.000284%)

1,500
(0.000283%)

23,846,780
(4.504337%)

2,428,806
(0.458769%)

723,500
(0.136659%)

580,507
(0.109652%)

21,228,380
(4.009821%)

86,916,524
(16.417629%)

153,500
(0.029022%)

86,299,590
(16.316290%)

Since  the  publication  of  the  Company’s  2010  interim  report,  the  Company  has  offered  to  the  shareholders  of  the  Company 
the  following  options  to  choose  the  language  and  means  of  receipt  of  the  corporate  communications  of  the  Company  in 
support of environment protection and for the purpose of saving printing and mailing costs:

(1) 

to  read  the  corporate  communication  published  on  the  Company’s  website  at  http://www.ooilgroup.com  in  place  of 
receiving  printed  copies,  and  receive  an  e-mail  notification  or  a  printed  notification  letter  (as  the  case  may  be)  of  the 
publication of the corporate communication on website; or

(2) 

to  receive  either  the  printed  English  version,  the  printed  Chinese  version  or  both  the  printed  English  and  Chinese 
versions of the Company’s corporate communication.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

71

Corporate Governance ReportD.  SHareHolDerS’ riGHtS

1.  Convening a special general meeting

Pursuant to the Bermuda Companies Act and the Company’s Bye-law, the shareholder(s) of the Company holding not 
less than one-tenth of the paid up capital of the Company having the right to vote at general meetings of the Company 
shall have the right, by written requisition sent to the Company’s registered office at Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, 
Hamilton  HM11,  Bermuda  and  to  the  Company’s  principal  office  at  33rd  Floor,  Harbour  Centre,  25  Harbour  Road, 
Wanchai, Hong Kong, for the attention of the Company Secretary of the Company, to require a special general meeting 
(the “SGM”) to be called by the Board for the transaction of any business specified in such requisition.

The written requisition must state the purposes of the general meeting, signed by the shareholder(s) concerned and may 
consist of several documents in like form, each signed by one or more of those shareholders.

Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  Company’s  branch  share  registrar  (the  “Registrar”)  that  the  shareholder(s) 
submitting the requisition is/are qualified to attend and vote at any general meeting, the Company will convene a SGM 
by serving sufficient notice in accordance with the statutory requirements to all the registered shareholders.

2.  putting forward proposals at general meetings

The shareholder(s) of the Company holding (i) not less than one-twentieth of the total voting rights of all shareholders 
having the right to vote at the general meeting of the Company; or (ii) not less than 100 shareholders of the Company, 
can submit:

(i) 

a written request stating the resolution intended to be moved at an annual general meeting; or

(ii)  a statement of not more than 1,000 words with respect to the matter referred to in any proposed resolution or the 

business to be dealt with at a particular general meeting.

The  written  request/statement  must  be  signed  by  the  shareholder(s)  concerned  and  deposited  at  the  Company’s 
registered office at Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda and to the Company’s principal office 
at 33rd Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong, for the attention of the Company Secretary of 
the Company, not less than six weeks before the annual general meeting in the case of a requisition requiring notice of a 
resolution and not less than one week before the general meeting in the case of any other requisition.

Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  Registrar  of  the  Company  that  the  shareholder(s)  making  the  proposal  is/are 
qualified to attend and vote at the general meeting, the Company will:

(i) 

include the resolution in the agenda for the annual general meeting; or

(ii)  circulate the statement for the general meeting,

provided that the shareholder(s) concerned have deposited a sum of money sufficient to meet the Company’s expenses 
in serving the notice of the resolution and/or circulating the statement to all the registered shareholders.

3.  putting enquiries to the Board

Shareholders  who  have  enquiries  to  put  to  the  Board  of  the  Company  may  write  to  the  Company  Secretary  of  the 
Company at 33rd Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong.

e.  iNVeStor relatioNS

The  Company  continues  to  promote  and  enhance  investor  relations  and  communication  with  its  investors.  The  Company’s 
investor  relations  team  maintains  regular  dialogue  with  institutional  investors,  analysts  and  fund  managers  to  keep  them 
abreast of the Group’s development.

Shareholders, investors and members of the public are able to access up-to-date corporate information and events related to 
the Group on the Company’s website.

72 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Corporate Governance Report1.  Shareholdings information

As at 31st December 2015:

Authorised  share  capital:  US$205,000,000,  comprising  900,000,000  ordinary  shares  of  US$0.1  each,  65,000,000  limited 
voting convertible redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each and 50,000,000 redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each.

Issued and fully-paid up capital: US$62,579,329.7 comprising 625,793,297 ordinary shares of US$0.1 each.

Details of the shareholding of the ordinary shares of the Company by the type of Shareholders as at 31st December 2015 
are as follows:

type of Shareholders

Corporate
Individual

Total

Number of
Shareholders

Shareholders
% of total

23
954

977

2.3541%
97.6459%

100.00%

Number
of Shares

620,253,471
5,539,826

625,793,297

Details of the shareholding of the ordinary shares of the Company by range as at 31st December 2015 are as follows:

Size of shareholdings

1 – 10,000
10,001 – 100,000
100,001 – 1,000,000
1,000,001 or above

Total

2.  public float

Number of
Shareholders

Shareholders
% of total

911
58
4
4

977

93.2447%
5.9365%
0.4094%
0.4094%

100.00%

Based  on  information  that  is  publicly  available  to  the  Company  and  within  the  knowledge  of  the  Directors,  the 
percentage of its public float exceeds 25% as at 31st December 2015.

3.  financial Calendar

Important dates for the coming financial year are set out on page 50 of this annual report.

4.  Memorandum of association and Bye-laws

There  are  no  changes  to  the  memorandum  of  association  and  bye-laws  of  the  Company  (the  “Constitutional 
Documents”) during the year. The consolidated version of the Constitutional Documents is available on the Company’s 
website and the HKExnews website.

In order to bring the bye-laws of the Company in line with the Listing Rules and the Bermuda Companies Act and to 
incorporate certain house-keeping amendments, a special resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general 
meeting for the shareholders to consider and, if thought fit, approve the adoption of the new bye-laws in substitution for 
and to the exclusion of the existing bye-laws.

A circular containing, among others, details of the proposed amendments to the existing bye-laws has been despatched 
to the shareholders of the Company.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

73

Corporate Governance ReportThe  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Company  (the  “Board”)  presents  this  report  together  with  the  audited  consolidated  financial 
statements for the year ended 31st December 2015.

priNCipal aCtiVitieS

The principal activity of the Company is investment holding and the activities of its principal subsidiaries, associated companies 
and joint ventures are set out on pages 139 to 147 of this annual report.

GroUp reSUltS

The consolidated results of the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Group”) are set out on page 84 of this 
annual report.

DiViDeNDS

An interim dividend of US9.6 cents (HK$0.749) per ordinary share was paid on 15th October 2015.

The Board has recommended the payment of a final dividend of US1.85 cents (HK$0.145 at the exchange rate of US$1: HK$7.8) 
per ordinary share for the year ended 31st December 2015 to be paid on 8th June 2016 to the shareholders of the Company whose 
names appear on the register of members of the Company on 11th May 2016. Shareholders should complete the dividend election 
form  (if  applicable)  and  return  it  to  the  Company’s  Hong  Kong  branch  share  registrar,  Computershare  Hong  Kong  Investor 
Services Limited at 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong, not later than 4:30 p.m. on 31st 
May 2016.

BUSiNeSS reVieW

A  review  of  the  business  of  the  Group  and  an  analysis  of  the  Group’s  performance  during  the  year  are  provided  in  Chairman’s 
Letter on pages 6 to 9, Operations Review on pages 10 to 19 and Financial Review sections on pages 28 to 43 of this annual report. 
Description  of  the  principal  risks  and  uncertainties  that  the  Group  is  facing  can  be  found  in  Chairman’s  Letter  on  pages  6  to  9 
and Operations Review on pages 10 to 19. Also, the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group can be found 
in  note  3  to  the  consolidated  financial  statements.  No  important  events  affecting  the  Group  have  occurred  since  the  end  of  the 
financial year ended 31st December 2015. The Group’s future business development is provided in Chairman’s Letter on pages 6 to 
9 and Operations Review on pages 10 to 19 of this annual report. In addition, discussions on the Group’s environmental policies 
and performance and compliance with the relevant laws and regulations and an account of the Group’s key relationships with its 
employees,  customers  and  suppliers  and  stakeholders,  that  have  a  significant  impact  on  the  Group  are  contained  in  Corporate 
Responsibility section on pages 20 to 27 of this annual report and in the Sustainability Report available on the Company’s website.

74 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Report of the DirectorsDireCtorS

The Directors of the Company during the year and up to the date of this report were:

executive Directors

Mr. Tung Chee Chen (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan (Chief Financial Officer)(Note 1)

Non-executive Director

Professor Roger King

independent Non-executive Directors

Mr. Simon Murray
Mr. Chang Tsann Rong Ernest(Note 2)
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah(Note 3)
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard
Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward
Mr. Kwok King Man Clement(Note 4)

Notes:

1.  Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan was re-designated from Acting Chief Financial Officer to Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1st January 2016.

2.  Mr. Chang Tsann Rong Ernest resigned as an Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 31st August 2015.

3.  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah  was  re-designated  from  a  Non-Executive  Director  to  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  with  effect  from  2nd 

January 2015.

4.  Mr. Kwok King Man Clement was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 2nd July 2015.

In accordance with bye-law 86(2) of the Bye-laws of the Company (the “Bye-laws”), Mr. Kwok King Man Clement, appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company on 2nd July 2015, will hold office until the next following general meeting 
of the Company and, being eligible, will offer himself for re-election at the annual general meeting of the Company to be held on 
29th April 2016 (the “Annual General Meeting”).

In  addition,  in  accordance  with  bye-laws  87(2)  and  87(3)  of  the  Bye-laws,  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen,  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan  and 
Professor  Wong  Yue  Chim  Richard  will  retire  by  rotation  and,  being  eligible,  will  offer  themselves  for  re-election  at  the  Annual 
General Meeting. Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard, an Independent Non-Executive Director, has served the Company for more 
than nine years, and his re-election will be subject to a separate resolution to be approved at the Annual General Meeting pursuant 
to the Corporate Governance Code (the “SEHK Code”) contained in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities 
on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”).

None  of  the  Directors  has  a  service  contract  with  the  Company  or  any  of  its  subsidiaries  which  is  not  determinable  by  the 
employing company within one year without payment of compensation, other than statutory compensation.

The  Company  has  received  from  each  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company,  confirmation  of  his  independence 
pursuant to rule 3.13 of the Listing Rules and considers all of them are independent.

DireCtorS’ riGHtS to aCQUire SHareS or DeBeNtUreS

Neither  the  Company  nor  any  of  its  subsidiaries  was  a  party  to  any  arrangement  to  enable  the  Directors  of  the  Company  to 
acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate at any time 
during the year or at the end of the year.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

75

Report of the DirectorsDireCtorS’ aND CHief eXeCUtiVe’S iNtereSt

1.  Significant Contracts

The  Group  shares  the  rental  of  office  premises  at  Harbour  Centre,  Hong  Kong  on  an  actual  cost  reimbursement  basis  with 
Island  Navigation  Corporation  International  Limited  (“INCIL”),  which  is  owned  by  a  Tung  family  trust.  The  total  amount 
of  rental  on  an  actual  cost  reimbursement  basis  paid  by  INCIL  to  the  Group  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2015  was 
approximately US$1,589,000.

Yuensung Investment Company Limited (“Yuensung”), a company controlled by Mr. C U Tung, the uncle of Mr. Tung Chee 
Chen,  also  shares  the  rental  of  an  office  premises  at  Harbour  Centre,  Hong  Kong  with  our  Group.  The  total  amount  of 
rental  on  an  actual  cost  reimbursement  basis  paid  by  Yuensung  to  the  Group  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2015  was 
approximately US$90,000.

Except for the above (other than contracts amongst Group companies), no other contracts or arrangements of significance in 
relation to the Group’s business to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party, and in which a Director of the 
Company had a material interest, subsisted at the year end or at any time during the year.

2.  Shares

As at 31st December 2015, the issued share capital of the Company consisted of 625,793,297 ordinary shares (the “Shares”). 
The  interests  and  short  positions  of  the  Directors  and  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Company  in  the  Shares,  the  underlying 
Shares  and  the  debentures  of  the  Company  or  any  of  its  associated  corporations  (within  the  meaning  of  Part  XV  of  the 
Securities and Futures Ordinance (“SFO”)) as recorded in the register kept by the Company pursuant to Section 352 of the 
SFO or otherwise notified to the Company and The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Stock Exchange”) pursuant 
to  the  Model  Code  for  Securities  Transactions  by  Directors  of  Listed  Issuers  (the  “Model  Code”)  contained  in  the  Listing 
Rules, were as follows:–

Name

Tung Chee Chen

Chow Philip Yiu Wah

Simon Murray
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard

Notes:

Direct 
interests

–

133,100

10,000
–

other 
interests

429,950,088
(Notes 1 & 2)
20,000
(Note 3)
–
500
(Note 4)

total number 
of Shares 
(long position)

429,950,088

percentage

68.70%

153,100

0.024%

10,000
500

0.002%
0.00008%

1.  Mr. Tung Chee Chen has an interest in a trust which, through Artson Global Limited (“Artson”) as trustee, holds shares of Thelma Holdings 

Limited  (“Thelma”),  which  has  an  indirect  interest  in  429,950,088  Shares,  in  which  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  (“Fortune  Crest”)  and  Gala  Way 

Company  Inc.  (“Gala  Way”),  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  of  Thelma,  have  direct  interests  in  350,722,656  Shares  and  79,227,432  Shares 

respectively.  The  voting rights in respect of such 429,950,088 Shares are held by Mr. Tung Chee Chen through Tung Holdings (Trustee) Inc. 

(“THTI”).

2. 

Fortune Crest and Gala Way together are referred to as the controlling shareholders.

3. 

20,000 Shares are held by the spouse of Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah.

4. 

500 Shares are held by the spouse of Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard.

76 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Report of the DirectorsSave  as  disclosed  above,  as  at  31st  December  2015,  none  of  the  Directors  or  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Company  had  any 
interest  or  short  position  in  the  Shares,  the  underlying  Shares  and  the  debentures  of  the  Company  or  any  of  its  associated 
corporation (within the meaning of the SFO) which were required to be: (a) notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange 
pursuant to Divisions 7 and 8 of Part XV of the SFO (including interests and short positions which they are taken or deemed 
to have under such provisions of the SFO); or (b) entered in the register kept by the Company pursuant to Section 352 of the 
SFO; or (c) notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange pursuant to the Model Code.

Save as disclosed in below section “Substantial Shareholders’ Share Interest”, as at 31st December 2015, none of the Directors 
or the Chief Executive of the Company is a director or an employee of a company which had an interest or short position in 
the Shares and the underlying Shares which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of Divisions 2 
and 3 of Part XV of the SFO.

3.  Directors’ interests in Competing Business

As  at  31st  December  2015,  none  of  the  Directors  and  their  respective  associates  (as  defined  in  the  Listing  Rules)  had  any 
interest in a business, which competes or may compete with the business of the Group.

MaNaGeMeNt CoNtraCtS

No contracts concerning the management and administration of the whole or any substantial part of any business of the Company 
were entered into during the year or subsisted at the end of the year.

SUBStaNtial SHareHolDerS’ SHare iNtereSt

As at 31st December 2015, the following persons (other than the Directors or the Chief Executive of the Company) had an interest 
or short position in the Shares and the underlying Shares which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of 
Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO as recorded in the register required to be kept by the Company under Section 336 of the 
SFO:

Name

Artson Global Limited *
Hanberry Global Limited #
Thelma Holdings Limited *
Tung Chee Hwa
Archmore Investment Limited *
Edgemont Holdings Limited *
Javier Global Limited *
Bartlock Assets Ltd. #
Flowell Development Inc.
Izone Capital Limited *
Jeference Capital Inc. *
Tung Holdings (Trustee) Inc. *
Fortune Crest Inc. *
Gala Way Company Inc. *

Nature of interest

Trustee
Trustee
Indirect
Indirect
Beneficiary of a trust
Indirect
Indirect
Beneficiary of a trust
Beneficiary of a trust
Beneficiary of a trust
Beneficiary of a trust
Voting
Direct
Direct

Number of Shares 
interested 
(long position)

429,950,088 (Note 1)
429,950,088 (Note 2)
429,950,088 (Note 3)
429,975,319 (Note 4)
429,950,088 (Note 5)
429,950,088 (Note 6)
429,950,088 (Note 7)
429,950,088 (Note 8)
429,950,088 (Note 9)
429,950,088 (Note 10)
429,950,088 (Note 11)
429,950,088 (Note 12)
350,722,656 (Note 13)
79,227,432 (Note 14)

percentage

68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
56.04%
12.66%

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

77

Report of the DirectorsNotes:

1. 

Artson, a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, holds 56.36% of the shares of Thelma and, accordingly, has an indirect interest 

in the same Shares in which Thelma has an interest.

2. 

Hanberry  Global  Limited  (“Hanberry”),  a  company  which  is  wholly  owned  by  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa  (brother  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen,  brother-in-

law of Professor Roger King, and father of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew and Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan), holds 43.64% of the shares of Thelma and, 

accordingly, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Thelma has an interest.

3. 

Thelma,  a  company  which  is  owned  collectively  by  Artson  and  Hanberry,  has  an  indirect  interest  in  the  same  Shares  in  which  Fortune  Crest  and 

Gala Way, wholly-owned subsidiaries of Thelma, have an interest.

4.  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa  has  an  interest  in  a  trust  which,  through  Hanberry  as  trustee,  holds  shares  of  Thelma,  which  has  an  indirect  interest  in 

429,950,088  Shares.  Mrs.  Tung  Chiu  Hung  Ping  Betty  (spouse  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa,  sister-in-law  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  and  Professor  Roger 

King, and mother of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew and Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan) owns 25,231 Shares.

5. 

Archmore Investment Limited (“Archmore”), a company which is wholly owned by Edgemont Holdings Limited (“Edgemont”), has an interest in a 

trust which, through Artson as trustee, holds shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

6. 

Edgemont has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Archmore, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Edgemont, has an interest.

7. 

Javier  Global  Limited  (“Javier”),  a  company  which  is  wholly  owned  by  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen,  has  an  indirect  interest  in  the  same  Shares  in  which 

Edgemont, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Javier, has an interest.

8. 

Bartlock Assets Ltd., a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Hwa, has an interest in a trust which, through Hanberry as trustee, holds 

shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

9. 

Flowell Development Inc., a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, has an interest in a trust which, through Artson as trustee, 

holds shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

10. 

Izone Capital Limited, a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, has an interest in a trust which, through Artson as trustee, holds 

shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

11. 

Jeference Capital Inc., a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, has an interest in a trust which, through Artson as trustee, holds 

shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

12.  THTI is a company wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen.

13.  Fortune Crest has a direct interest in 350,722,656 Shares.

14.  Gala Way has a direct interest in 79,227,432 Shares.

* 

For those companies marked with “*”, Mr. Tung Chee Chen is either a director of these companies or a director of a company which is a corporate 

director of these companies.

# 

For those companies marked with “#”, Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew is a director of these companies.

Save as disclosed herein, as at 31st December 2015, the Company has not been notified by any person (other than the Directors 
or the Chief Executive of the Company) who had an interest or short position in the Shares or the underlying Shares which were 
required to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO, or which were recorded 
in the register required to be kept by the Company under Section 336 of the SFO.

78 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Report of the DirectorsCoNNeCteD traNSaCtioNS

During  the  year  ended  31st  December  2015,  the  Group  had  the  following  continuing  connected  transactions  (the  “Continuing 
Connected  Transactions”)  constituted  by  the  following  agreements  entered  into  by  OOCL  (Taiwan)  Co.,  Ltd.  (“OTWL”),  the 
Group’s Taiwanese subsidiary and acting as the general agent for the carrier of the Group in Taiwan:

a)  CMt Master agreement

Pursuant  to  a  master  agreement  dated  29th  June  2005,  as  supplemented  by  the  supplemental  agreements  dated  10th 
December  2007,  15th  December  2010  and  4th  December  2013,  all  entered  into  between  OTWL  and  Chinese  Maritime 
Transport  Ltd.  (“CMT”),  CMT  agreed  to  provide  and  to  procure  members  of  the  CMT  group  to  provide  various  services 
to  the  Group  including,  inter  alia,  (i)  trucking  service;  (ii)  leasing  of  equipment  (including  chassis  and  tractors);  (iii) 
maintenance  and  repair  services  for  generator  sets  and  chassis;  (iv)  freight  station  depot  and  container  storage  facilities; 
(v)  container  yard  and  gate  services;  and  (vi)  crew  manning  services,  for  successive  periods  of  three  years  expiring  on  31st 
December 2016 subject to the annual caps of not exceeding US$50,000,000, US$52,500,000 and US$55,000,000 for the years 
2014, 2015 and 2016 respectively.

During the year 2015, US$29,327,000 was paid by OTWL to the CMT group for the aforesaid services.

b)  aii Master agreement

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 29th June 2005, as supplemented by the supplemental agreement dated 10th December 
2007, 15th December 2010 and 4th December 2013, all entered into between OTWL and Associated International Inc. (“AII”), 
AII agreed to provide and to procure members of the AII group to provide various services to the Group including, inter alia, 
(i) provision of office premises; and (ii) freight station depot and container storage facilities, for successive periods of three 
years expiring on 31st December 2016 subject to the annual caps of not exceeding US$2,800,000 for the years 2014, 2015 and 
2016 respectively.

During the year 2015, US$1,135,000 was paid by OTWL to the AII group for the aforesaid services.

Mr. John Peng is the controlling shareholder of CMT and AII, and the brother-in-law of Mr. Tung Chee Chen who is an Executive 
Director, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company; the brother-in-law of Professor Roger King, a Non-
Executive Director of the Company; the uncle of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew, an Executive Director of the Company, and Mr. 
Tung Lieh Sing Alan, an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer of the Company; and the brother-in-law of Mr. Tung Chee 
Hwa  who  has  an  interest  in  a  trust  which  has  an  indirect  interest  in  certain  substantial  shareholders  of  the  Company.  Mr.  Peng 
and accordingly CMT and AII are therefore connected persons of the Company as defined in the Listing Rules.

Pursuant  to  rule  14A.55  of  the  Listing  Rules,  the  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors  of  the  Company,  namely  Mr.  Simon 
Murray,  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  Professor  Wong  Yue  Chim  Richard,  Mr.  Cheng  Wai  Sun  Edward  and  Mr.  Kwok  King  Man 
Clement, have reviewed the Continuing Connected Transactions and confirmed that the Continuing Connected Transactions have 
been entered into (a) in the ordinary and usual course of business of the Group; (b) on normal commercial terms or better; and (c) 
according to the relevant agreements governing them on terms that are fair and reasonable and in the interests of the shareholders 
of the Company as a whole.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

79

Report of the DirectorsThe  Company’s  auditor  was  engaged  to  report  on  the  Group’s  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  in  accordance  with  Hong 
Kong Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) “Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
Financial  Information”  and  with  reference  to  Practice  Note  740  “Auditor’s  Letter  on  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  under 
the  Hong  Kong  Listing  Rules”  issued  by  the  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified  Public  Accountants.  The  auditor  has  issued  his 
unqualified letter containing the findings and conclusions in respect of the Continuing Connected Transactions as disclosed above 
in  accordance  with  rule  14A.56  of  the  Listing  Rules  and  nothing  has  come  to  his  attention  that  causes  him  to  believe  that  the 
disclosed Continuing Connected Transactions:

(i)  have not been approved by the Board of Directors of the Company;

(ii)  were not entered into, in all material respects, in accordance with the relevant agreements governing the transactions; and

(iii)  have exceeded the maximum aggregate annual caps in respect of each of the disclosed Continuing Connected Transactions.

perMitteD iNDeMNitY

Pursuant  to  the  Company’s  Bye-laws  and  subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  statutes,  every  Director  of  the  Company  shall  be 
indemnified and secured harmless out of the assets and profits of the Company from and against all actions, costs, charges, losses, 
damages  and  expenses  which  he  may  incur  or  sustain  in  or  about  the  execution  of  his  duty;  provided  that  the  indemnity  shall 
not  extend  to  any  matter  in  respect  of  any  wilful  negligence,  wilful  default,  fraud  or  dishonesty  which  may  attach  to  any  of  the 
Directors.

Since 1992, the Company has arranged insurance cover for directors’ and officers’ liabilities including cover for Directors, officers 
and senior management of the Group arising out of the corporate activities of the Group.

pUrCHaSe, Sale or reDeMptioN of SHareS

During the year ended 31st December 2015, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has purchased, sold or redeemed any 
of the Company’s Shares.

pre-eMptiVe  riGHtS

No pre-emptive rights exist under Bermudan law in relation to the issue of new shares by the Company.

SHare Capital

Details of the shares of the Company issued during the year are set out in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements on page 
132 of this annual report.

reSerVeS

Movements during the year in the reserves of the Group and the Company are set out in note 35 and note 42 to the consolidated 
financial statements on pages 132 and 138 of this annual report.

eQUitY-liNKeD aGreeMeNtS

For the year ended 31st December 2015, the Company has not entered into any equity-linked agreement.

Corporate GoVerNaNCe

The  Board  and  management  of  the  Company  are  committed  to  maintaining  high  standards  of  corporate  governance  and  the 
Company  considers  that  effective  corporate  governance  makes  an  important  contribution  to  corporate  success  and  to  the 
enhancement of shareholder value.

80 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Report of the DirectorsThe Company has adopted its own corporate governance code (the “CG Code”), which in addition to applying the principles as set 
out in the SEHK Code contained in Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules, also incorporates and conforms to local and international 
best  practices.  The  CG  Code  sets  out  the  corporate  governance  principles  applied  by  the  Company  and  its  subsidiaries  and  is 
constantly reviewed to ensure transparency, accountability and independence. Further information on the CG Code is set out in 
the corporate governance report (the “Corporate Governance Report”) on pages 53 to 73 of this annual report.

Throughout the year of 2015, the Company complied with the SEHK Code, except as set out in the Corporate Governance Report 
on page 53.

pUBliC float

Based  on  information  that  is  publicly  available  to  the  Company  and  within  the  knowledge  of  the  Directors  of  the  Company,  as 
at the date of this report, there is sufficient public float of more than 25% of the Company’s issued Shares as required under the 
Listing Rules.

DoNatioNS

Donations made by the Group during the year amount to US$306,000.

aNNUal GeNeral MeetiNG

The Annual General Meeting will be held on 29th April 2016.

A  circular  containing,  inter  alia,  (i)  a  notice  convening  the  Annual  General  Meeting;  (ii)  details  of  the  retiring  Directors  to  be 
re-elected  at  the  Annual  General  Meeting;  (iii)  the  general  mandate  to  authorise  the  allotment  of  and  otherwise  dealing  with 
shares  of  all  classes  in  the  capital  of  the  Company  and  securities  convertible  into  shares  and  options,  warrants  or  similar  rights 
to  subscribe  for  shares  or  such  convertible  securities;  (iv)  the  general  mandate  to  authorise  the  repurchase  of  the  Company’s 
securities; and (v) adoption of new Bye-laws of the Company together with a proxy form will be despatched to the shareholders of 
the Company on or around 24th March 2016.

CoMpaNY SeCretarY

The Company Secretary of the Company is Ms. Lammy Lee, Barrister.

aUDitor

The  Group’s  consolidated  financial  statements  have  been  audited  by  PricewaterhouseCoopers  who  will  retire  at  the  Annual 
General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.

On behalf of the Board
orient overseas (international) limited
tung Chee Chen
Chairman

Hong Kong, 4th March 2016

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

81

Report of the DirectorsContent
Independent Auditor’s Report
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures

General information
Summary of significant accounting policies
Financial risk management
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Revenue and segment information
Operating costs
Other operating income
Other operating expenses
Employee benefit expense
Directors’ and management’s emoluments
Operating profit
Finance costs
Taxation
Earnings per ordinary share
Dividends
Property, plant and equipment
Investment property
Prepayments of lease premiums
Joint ventures
Associated companies
Intangible assets
Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities)
Pension and retirement benefits
Restricted bank balances
Available-for-sale financial assets
Held-to-maturity investments
Other non-current assets
Inventories
Debtors and prepayments
Amounts due from joint ventures
Portfolio investments
Derivative financial instruments
Cash and bank balances
Share capital
Reserves
Borrowings
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to joint ventures
Commitments
Financial guarantees
Notes to consolidated cash flow statement
Company balance sheet
Comparative figures
Approval of financial statements

82 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Page no.
83
84
85
86
88
89

90
90
102
107
109
111
112
112
112
113
115
115
115
116
117
117
119
120
120
120
121
121
122
125
126
126
127
127
128
129
130
130
131
132
132
133
134
135
135
136
137
137
138
138
139

Index – Financial Informationto the Shareholders of orient overseas (international) limited
(Incorporated in Bermuda with limited liability)

We  have  audited  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of  Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (the  “Company”)  and  its 
subsidiaries  set  out  on  pages  84  to  147,  which  comprise  the  consolidated  balance  sheet  as  at  31st  December  2015,  and  the 
consolidated profit and loss account, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated cash flow statement 
and the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and 
other explanatory information.

Directors’ responsibility for the consolidated financial statements

The  Directors  of  the  Company  are  responsible  for  the  preparation  of  consolidated  financial  statements  that  give  a  true  and 
fair  view  in  accordance  with  Hong  Kong  Financial  Reporting  Standards  issued  by  the  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified  Public 
Accountants  and  the  disclosure  requirements  of  the  Hong  Kong  Companies  Ordinance,  and  for  such  internal  control  as  the 
Directors  determine  is  necessary  to  enable  the  preparation  of  consolidated  financial  statements  that  are  free  from  material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

auditor’s responsibility

Our  responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these  consolidated  financial  statements  based  on  our  audit  and  to  report  our 
opinion solely to you, as a body, in accordance with Section 90 of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda and for no other purpose.  
We do not assume responsibility towards or accept liability to any other person for the contents of this report.

We  conducted  our  audit  in  accordance  with  Hong  Kong  Standards  on  Auditing  issued  by  the  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified 
Public Accountants.  Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.

An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial 
statements.    The  procedures  selected  depend  on  the  auditor’s  judgement,  including  the  assessment  of  the  risks  of  material 
misstatement  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements,  whether  due  to  fraud  or  error.    In  making  those  risk  assessments,  the 
auditor  considers  internal  control  relevant  to  the  entity’s  preparation  of  consolidated  financial  statements  that  give  a  true  and 
fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an 
opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.  An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting 
policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation 
of the consolidated financial statements.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.

opinion

In  our  opinion,  the  consolidated  financial  statements  give  a  true  and  fair  view  of  the  financial  position  of  the  Company  and  its 
subsidiaries as at 31st December 2015, and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance 
with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards and have been properly prepared in compliance with the disclosure requirements 
of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance.

pricewaterhouseCoopers
Certified Public Accountants

Hong Kong, 4th March 2016

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

83

Independent Auditor’s ReportUS$’000

Revenue
Operating costs

Gross profit
Fair value gain from an investment property
Other operating income
Other operating expenses

operating profit
Finance costs
Share of profits of joint ventures
Share of profits of associated companies

profit before taxation
Taxation

profit for the year

profit/(loss) attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company
Non-controlling interests

earnings per ordinary share (US cents)
Basic and diluted

Note

2015

2014

5
6

17
7
8

11
12
19
20

13

14

5,953,444
(5,262,429)

6,521,589
(5,875,797)

691,015
19,545
112,250
(469,742)

353,068
(63,642)
4,168
13,614

307,208
(23,357)

283,851

283,851
–

283,851

645,792
9,653
119,380
(445,678)

329,147
(54,000)
4,364
15,072

294,583
(24,145)

270,438

270,538
(100)

270,438

45.4

43.2

84 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Consolidated Profit and Loss AccountFor the year ended 31st December 2015 
 
US$’000

profit for the year

other comprehensive income:
Item that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit schemes

Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Available-for-sale financial assets
  – Change in fair value
Currency translation adjustments
  – Foreign subsidiaries
  – Non-controlling interests
  – Associated companies
  – Joint ventures
  – Release of reserve upon disposal of a subsidiary

Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss

Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax

total comprehensive income for the year

total comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company
Non-controlling interests

2015

283,851

2014

270,438

6,048

(1,988)

(28,464)

(42,287)

(8,068)
–
(8,620)
(410)
–

(45,562)

(39,514)

244,337

244,337
–

244,337

1,048
(52)
(525)
(30)
(4,027)

(45,873)

(47,861)

222,577

222,729
(152)

222,577

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

85

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive IncomeFor the year ended 31st December 2015 
 
 
Note

2015

2014

16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
32
24
25
26
27

28
29
30
26
31
32

24
33

6,020,744
200,000
8,462
8,887
145,249
55,646
3,765
7,855
1,507
980
127,998
217,004
16,635

5,608,929
180,000
9,109
9,011
152,499
48,578
3,887
–
2,888
54,168
139,636
221,035
19,710

6,814,732

6,449,450

72,481
499,409
2,871
19,074
295,894
147
10,942
443
2,015,581

2,916,842
–

128,652
574,517
237
24,792
223,423
–
13,010
413
2,165,914

3,130,958
53,047

2,916,842

3,184,005

9,731,574

9,633,455

34
35

62,579
4,734,931

62,579
4,572,173

4,797,510

4,634,752

US$’000

aSSetS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
Investment property
Prepayments of lease premiums
Joint ventures
Associated companies
Intangible assets
Deferred taxation assets
Pension and retirement assets
Derivative financial instruments
Restricted bank balances
Available-for-sale financial assets
Held-to-maturity investments
Other non-current assets

Current assets
Inventories
Debtors and prepayments
Amounts due from joint ventures
Held-to-maturity investments
Portfolio investments
Derivative financial instrument
Tax recoverable
Restricted bank balances
Cash and bank balances

Asset held for sale

total assets

eQUitY
equity holders
Share capital
Reserves

total equity

86 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Consolidated Balance SheetAs at 31st December 2015 
 
 
US$’000

liaBilitieS
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings
Deferred taxation liabilities
Pension and retirement liabilities
Derivative financial instrument

Current liabilities
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to joint ventures
Borrowings
Derivative financial instruments
Current taxation

total liabilities

total equity and liabilities

C C tung
alan tung
Directors

Note

2015

2014

36
22
23
32

37
38
36
32

3,663,100
62,041
109
–

3,595,625
53,655
1,665
2,949

3,725,250

3,653,894

750,378
11,037
438,619
5,316
3,464

942,704
7,145
388,877
406
5,677

1,208,814

1,344,809

4,934,064

4,998,703

9,731,574

9,633,455

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

87

Consolidated Balance SheetAs at 31st December 2015 
 
 
US$’000

Note

2015

2014

Cash flows from operating activities
  Operating profit
Interest income

  Dividend income and distribution
  Depreciation and amortisation
  Fair value gain from assets and liabilities
  Gain on disposal of a subsidiary
  Net gain on disposal of non-current assets

  Operating profit before working capital changes
  Decrease in inventories
  Decrease/(increase) in debtors and prepayments
(Decrease)/increase in creditors and accruals

  Change in net pension assets/liabilities
  Settlement of derivative financial instruments

  Cash generated from operations

Interest and financing charges paid
  Hong Kong profits tax (paid)/refunded
  Overseas taxes paid

  Net cash from operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities
  Sale and redemption on maturity of non-current assets
  Purchase of property, plant and equipment
  Purchase of other non-current assets

Investment in a joint venture and an associated company

  Disposal of a subsidiary

(Increase)/decrease in portfolio investments
  Net change in amounts due to joint ventures

Increase in restricted bank balances and bank deposits
  maturing more than three months
Interest received

  Dividends and distribution received from investments
  Dividends received from joint ventures and associated companies

353,068
(38,219)
(31,696)
319,613
(4,332)
–
(221)

598,213
56,171
75,258
(189,926)
(2,415)
(1,070)

536,231
(62,492)
(60)
(15,398)

458,281

132,825
(366,189)
(25,870)
–
–
(83,419)
3,660

(1,807)
38,129
14,828
13,723

329,147
(37,688)
(44,645)
332,154
(17,232)
(4,964)
(9,724)

547,048
21,397
(41,630)
27,598
(2,617)
1,441

553,237
(53,790)
645
(21,561)

478,531

186,358
(360,448)
(14,094)
(10,347)
5,716
847
(83)

(59,370)
37,479
12,366
18,419

  Net cash used in investing activities

(274,120)

(183,157)

Cash flows from financing activities
  Drawdown of loans
  Repayment of loans
  Capital element of finance lease rental payments
  Dividend paid to equity holders of the Company

  Net cash used in financing activities

Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments

910,985
(991,287)
(224,394)
(81,579)

686,453
(477,485)
(225,864)
(58,784)

(386,275)

(75,680)

(202,114)
1,942,822
(3,197)

219,694
1,719,902
3,226

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

41(b)

1,737,511

1,942,822

88 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Consolidated Cash Flow StatementFor the year ended 31st December 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$’000

At 31st December 2013
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
Transactions with owners
  2013 final dividend
  2014 interim dividend
  Disposal of a subsidiary company

At 31st December 2014
Total comprehensive income for the year
Transactions with owners
  2014 final dividend
  2015 interim dividend

equity holders

Share
capital

62,579
–

reserves

Sub-total

4,408,228
222,729

4,470,807
222,729

–
–
–

(11,795)
(46,989)
–

(11,795)
(46,989)
–

62,579
–

4,572,173
244,337

4,634,752
244,337

–
–

(21,400)
(60,179)

(21,400)
(60,179)

at 31st December 2015

62,579

4,734,931

4,797,510

Non-
controlling
interests

5,817
(152)

–
–
(5,665)

–
–

–
–

–

total

4,476,624
222,577

(11,795)
(46,989)
(5,665)

4,634,752
244,337

(21,400)
(60,179)

4,797,510

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

89

Consolidated Statement of Changes in EquityFor the year ended 31st December 2015 
1.  General information

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (“the  Company”)  is  a  limited  liability  company  incorporated  in  Bermuda.  The 
address  of  its  registered  office  is  Clarendon  House,  2  Church  Street,  Hamilton  HM11,  Bermuda  and  the  principal  office  is 
33rd floor, Harbour Centre, No. 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong.

The  principal  activity  of  the  Company  is  investment  holding  and  the  activities  of  its  principal  subsidiaries,  associated 
companies and joint ventures are set out on pages 139 to 147 of the consolidated financial statements.

The Company has its listing on the Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.

2.  Summary of significant accounting policies

The  significant  accounting  policies  applied  in  the  preparation  of  these  consolidated  financial  statements  are  set  out  below. 
These policies have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless otherwise stated.

2.1  Basis of preparation

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards 
(“HKFRS”). They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investment 
property, available-for-sale financial assets, portfolio investments and derivative financial instruments which are carried 
at fair value.

The  preparation  of  consolidated  financial  statements  in  conformity  with  HKFRS  requires  the  use  of  certain  critical 
accounting  estimates.  It  also  requires  management  to  exercise  its  judgement  in  the  process  of  applying  the  Group’s 
accounting  policies.  The  areas  involving  a  higher  degree  of  judgement  or  complexity,  or  areas  where  assumptions  and 
estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 4.

Change of estimated useful lives of the containers

During  the  year,  management  has  reviewed  the  estimated  useful  lives  of  the  dry  and  special  containers.  With  due 
consideration  of  the  standard  of  performance  and  the  Group’s  maintenance  programme  over  these  containers,  the 
Directors consider that it is more fair and appropriate to extend the estimated useful lives of dry and special containers 
from  10  years  to  12  years.  The  revision  of  the  estimated  useful  lives  of  the  containers  has  the  effect  of  reducing  the 
depreciation charge for the year ended 31st December 2015 by US$23.0 million.

the adoption of revised HKfrS

In 2015, the Group adopted the following amendments and improvements to existing HKFRS below, which are relevant 
to its operations.

amendments and improvements to existing standards

HKAS 19 (2011) Amendment
HKFRSs
HKFRSs

Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contribution
Annual Improvements 2010-2012 Reporting Cycle
Annual Improvements 2011-2013 Reporting Cycle

Amendment  to  HKAS  19  on  contributions  from  employees  or  third  parties  to  defined  benefit  plans.  The  amendment 
distinguishes  between  contributions  that  are  linked  to  service  only  in  the  period  in  which  they  arise  and  those  linked 
to  service  in  more  than  one  period.  The  amendment  allows  contributions  that  are  linked  to  service,  and  do  not  vary 
with  the  length  of  employee  service,  to  be  deducted  from  the  cost  of  benefits  earned  in  the  period  that  the  service  is 
provided. Contributions that are linked to service, and vary according to the length of employee service, must be spread 
over the service period using the same attribution method that is applied to the benefits.

Amendments from annual improvements to HKFRSs – 2010-2012 Cycle, on HKFRS 8, ‘Operating segments’, HKAS 16, 
‘Property, plant and equipment’ and HKAS 38, ‘Intangible assets’ and HKAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’.

90 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

the adoption of revised HKfrS (Continued)

Amendments from annual improvements to HKFRSs – 2011-2013 Cycle, on HKFRS 3, ‘Business combinations’, HKFRS 
13, ‘Fair value measurement’ and HKAS 40, ‘Investment property’.

The  adoption  of  the  improvements  made  in  the  2010-2012  Cycle  has  required  additional  disclosures  in  the  segment 
note. Other than that, the remaining amendments are not material to the Group.

There are no other new standards, amendments, interpretations and improvements that are effective for the first time in 
2015 that would have a material impact on the Group.

New  standards,  amendments  and  improvements  to  existing  standards  that  are  relevant  but  not  yet 
effective to the Group

New standards, amendments and improvements to existing standards

HKFRSs
HKAS 1 Amendments
HKAS 16 and HKAS 38 
  Amendments
HKFRS 9
HKFRS 15

Annual Improvements 2012-2014 Reporting Cycle
Disclosure Initiative
Classification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and
  Amortisation
Financial Instruments
Revenue from Contracts with Customers

effective for
accounting periods
beginning on or after

1st January 2016
1st January 2016
1st January 2016

1st January 2018
1st January 2018

The Group has not early adopted the above new standards, amendments and improvements and is not yet in a position 
to  state  whether  substantial  changes  to  the  Group’s  accounting  policies  and  presentation  of  financial  statements  will 
result.

New Hong Kong Companies ordinance (Cap. 622)

In addition, the requirements of Part 9 “Accounts and Audit” of the new Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) 
come  into  operation  during  the  financial  year,  as  a  result,  there  are  changes  to  presentation  and  disclosures  of  certain 
information in the consolidated financial statements.

2.2  Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 
31st December.

The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s attributable share of post-acquisition results and reserves 
of its joint ventures and associated companies.

(a)  Subsidiaries

A subsidiary is an entity (including a structured entity) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an 
entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has 
the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on 
which control is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

91

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.2  Consolidation (Continued)

(a)  Subsidiaries (Continued)

The  Group  uses  the  acquisition  method  of  accounting  to  account  for  business  combinations.  The  consideration 
transferred  for  the  acquisition  of  a  subsidiary  is  the  fair  values  of  the  assets  transferred,  the  liabilities  incurred 
and  the  equity  interests  issued  by  the  Group.  The  consideration  transferred  includes  the  fair  value  of  any  asset 
or  liability  resulting  from  a  contingent  consideration  arrangement.  Acquisition-related  costs  are  expensed  as 
incurred.  Identifiable  assets  acquired  and  liabilities  and  contingent  liabilities  assumed  in  a  business  combination 
are  measured  initially  at  their  fair  values  at  the  acquisition  date.  The  Group  recognises  any  non-controlling 
interest  in  the  acquiree  on  an  acquisition-by-acquisition  basis.  Non-controlling  interests  in  the  acquiree  that  are 
present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets in the event 
of  liquidation  are  measured  at  either  fair  value  or  the  present  ownership  interests’  proportionate  share  in  the 
recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. All other components of non-controlling interests are 
measured at their acquisition date fair value, unless another measurement basis is required by HKFRS.

The  excess  of  the  consideration  transferred,  the  amount  of  any  non-controlling  interest  in  the  acquiree  and  the 
acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net 
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised 
and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the 
case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Inter-company  transactions,  balances  and  unrealised  gains  on  transactions  between  group  companies  are 
eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the 
asset transferred.

(b)  transactions with non-controlling interests

Transactions  with  non-controlling  interests  that  do  not  result  in  a  loss  of  control  are  accounted  for  as  equity 
transactions – that is, as transactions with the owners of the subsidiary in their capacity as owners. The difference 
between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary 
is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.

When  the  Group  ceases  to  have  control,  any  retained  interest  in  the  entity  is  remeasured  to  its  fair  value,  with 
the  change  in  carrying  amount  recognised  in  profit  or  loss.  The  fair  value  is  the  initial  carrying  amount  for  the 
purposes  of  subsequent  accounting  for  the  retained  interest  as  an  associate,  joint  venture  or  financial  asset.  In 
addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted 
for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.

(c)  Joint arrangements

Joint  arrangements  are  classified  as  either  joint  operations  or  joint  ventures  depending  on  the  contractual  rights 
and obligations of each investor. The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them 
to be joint ventures. Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.

Under  the  equity  method  of  accounting,  interests  in  joint  ventures  are  initially  recognised  at  cost  and  adjusted 
thereafter  to  recognise  the  Group’s  share  of  the  post-acquisition  profits  or  losses  and  movements  in  other 
comprehensive  income.  When  the  Group’s  share  of  losses  in  a  joint  venture  equals  or  exceeds  its  interests  in  the 
joint ventures (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment 
in  the  joint  ventures),  the  Group  does  not  recognise  further  losses,  unless  it  has  incurred  obligations  or  made 
payments on behalf of the joint ventures.

Unrealised  gains  on  transactions  between  the  Group  and  its  joint  ventures  are  eliminated  to  the  extent  of  the 
Group’s interest in the joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence 
of an impairment of the asset transferred.

92 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.2  Consolidation (Continued)

(d)  associated companies

Associated  companies  are  all  entities  over  which  the  Group  has  significant  influence  but  not  control,  generally 
accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associated companies 
are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investments 
in associated companies includes goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) identified on acquisition.

If  the  ownership  interest  in  an  associate  is  reduced  but  significant  influence  is  retained,  only  a  proportionate 
share of the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where 
appropriate.

The  Group’s  share  of  its  associated  companies’  post-acquisition  profits  or  losses  is  recognised  in  the  consolidated 
profit  and  loss  account,  and  its  share  of  post-acquisition  movements  in  reserves  is  recognised  in  reserves.  The 
cumulative  post-acquisition  movements  are  adjusted  against  the  carrying  amount  of  the  investment.  When  the 
Group’s share of losses in an associated company equals or exceeds its interest in the associated company, including 
any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or 
made payments on behalf of the associated company.

Profits  and  losses  resulting  from  upstream  and  downstream  transactions  between  the  Group  and  its  associate  are 
recognised in the Group’s financial statements only to the extent of unrelated investor’s interests in the associates. 
Unrealised  losses  are  also  eliminated  unless  the  transaction  provides  evidence  of  an  impairment  of  the  asset 
transferred. Accounting policies of associated companies have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency 
with the policies adopted by the Group.

2.3  property, plant and equipment

All  property,  plant  and  equipment  are  stated  at  historical  cost  less  depreciation  and  impairment  losses.  Historical  cost 
includes  expenditure  that  is  directly  attributable  to  the  acquisition  of  the  items.  Subsequent  costs  are  included  in  the 
asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic 
benefits  associated  with  the  item  will  flow  to  the  Group  and  the  cost  of  the  item  can  be  measured  reliably.  All  other 
repairs  and  maintenance  are  charged  to  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  during  the  financial  period  in  which 
they are incurred.

No depreciation is provided for assets under construction and freehold land.

Vehicles, computer and other equipment include terminal equipment and improvements.

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their 
residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows:

Container vessels
Containers
Chassis
Terminal equipment and improvements
Freehold buildings
Leasehold buildings
Leasehold improvement
Furnitures, vehicles, computer and other equipment

25 years
5 to 12 years
10 to 12 years
10 to 15 years
Not exceeding 75 years
Over period of the lease
Over period of the lease
3 to 15 years

The  residual  values  of  the  assets  and  their  useful  lives  are  reviewed  and  adjusted  if  appropriate,  at  each  balance  sheet 
date.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

93

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.3  property, plant and equipment (Continued)

The carrying amount of an asset is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount of the 
asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.

Gains  and  losses  on  disposals  are  determined  as  the  difference  between  the  net  disposal  proceeds  and  the  carrying 
amounts of the assets and are dealt with in the consolidated profit and loss account.

2.4  investment property

Property  that  is  held  for  long-term  rental  yields  or  for  capital  appreciation  or  both,  and  that  is  not  occupied  by  the 
companies  in  the  Group,  is  classified  as  investment  property.  Investment  property  comprises  freehold  land,  land  held 
under  operating  leases  and  buildings  held  under  finance  leases.  Land  held  under  operating  leases  are  classified  and 
accounted for as investment property when the rest of the definition of investment property is met. The operating lease 
is accounted for as if it were a finance lease.

Investment  property  is  initially  measured  at  cost,  including  related  transaction  costs  and  where  applicable  borrowing 
costs. After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair value. Fair value is based on valuation carried out 
semi-annually  by  an  independent  external  valuer.  Changes  in  fair  values  are  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and 
loss account.

2.5  Vessel repairs and surveys

Upon  acquisition  of  a  vessel,  the  components  of  the  vessel  which  are  required  to  be  replaced  at  the  next  dry-docking 
are  identified  and  their  costs  are  depreciated  over  the  period  to  the  next  estimated  dry-docking  date,  usually  ranging 
from  three  to  five  years.  Costs  incurred  on  subsequent  dry-docking  of  vessels  are  capitalised  and  depreciated  over  the 
period to the next estimated dry-docking date. When significant dry-docking costs incurred prior to the expiry of the 
depreciation period, the remaining costs of the previous dry-docking are written off immediately.

2.6  intangible assets

(a)  Goodwill

Goodwill  represents  the  excess  of  the  cost  of  an  acquisition  over  the  fair  value  of  the  Group’s  share  of  the  net 
identifiable  assets  of  the  acquired  subsidiary,  associated  company  or  joint  ventures  at  the  effective  date  of 
acquisition.

Goodwill on acquisition of a foreign operation is treated as an asset of the foreign operation.

Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiaries is retained at the carrying amount as an intangible asset. Goodwill 
arising  on  acquisition  of  associated  companies  and  joint  ventures  is  included  within  investments  in  associated 
companies  and  joint  ventures  respectively  and  is  tested  for  impairment  as  part  of  overall  balance.  Separately 
recognised  goodwill  is  subject  to  impairment  review  annually  and  when  there  are  indications  that  the  carrying 
value  may  not  be  recoverable.  If  the  cost  of  acquisition  is  less  than  the  fair  value  of  the  Group’s  share  of  the  net 
identifiable assets of the acquired company, the difference is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

(b)  Computer software

Costs  associated  with  maintaining  computer  software  programmes  are  recognised  as  an  expense  as  incurred. 
Costs  that  are  directly  associated  with  the  production  of  identifiable  and  unique  software  products  controlled  by 
the  Group,  and  that  will  probably  generate  economic  benefits  exceeding  costs  beyond  one  year,  are  recognised 
as  intangible  assets.  Direct  costs  include  the  software  development  employee  costs  and  an  appropriate  portion  of 
relevant overheads.

Computer  software  development  costs  recognised  as  assets  are  stated  at  cost  less  accumulated  amortisation. 
Amortisation is calculated on the straight-line basis over their estimated useful life of five years.

94 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.7  impairment of investments in subsidiaries and non-financial assets

Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation, and are at least tested annually for impairment. 
Assets  that  are  subject  to  amortisation  are  reviewed  for  impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which 
the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value 
of an asset less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest 
levels  for  which  there  are  separately  identifiable  cash  flows  (cash  generating  units).  Non-financial  assets  other  than 
goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.

Impairment  testing  of  the  investments  in  subsidiaries  is  required  upon  receiving  dividends  from  these  investments  if 
the dividend exceeds the total comprehensive income of the subsidiary in the period the dividend is declared or if the 
carrying  amount  of  the  investment  in  the  separate  account  exceeds  the  carrying  amount  in  the  consolidated  financial 
statements of the investee’s net assets including goodwill.

2.8  investments

The  Group  classifies  its  investments  into  the  following  categories:  portfolio  investments,  loans  and  receivables,  held-
to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which the 
investments  were  acquired.  Management  determines  the  classification  of  its  investments  at  initial  recognition  and  re-
evaluates this designation at every reporting date.

(a)  portfolio investments

Portfolio investments include financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through profit or 
loss at inception. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in 
the short term or if so designated by management. Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are 
either held for trading or are expected to be realised within 12 months from the balance sheet date.

(b)  loans and receivables

Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted 
in an active market. They arise when the Group provides money or services directly to a debtor with no intention 
of trading the receivable. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the 
balance sheet date; which are classified as non-current assets.

(c)  Held-to-maturity investments

Held-to-maturity  investments  are  non-derivative  financial  assets  with  fixed  or  determinable  payments  and  fixed 
maturities  that  the  Group’s  management  has  the  positive  intention  and  ability  to  hold  to  maturity.  If  the  Group 
were  to  sell  other  than  an  insignificant  amount  of  held-to-maturity  investments,  the  whole  category  would  be 
reclassified  as  available-for-sale  financial  assets.  Held-to-maturity  investments  are  included  in  non-current  assets, 
except  for  those  with  maturities  less  than  12  months  from  the  balance  sheet  date;  which  are  classified  as  current 
assets.

(d)  available-for-sale financial assets

Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in 
any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the 
investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.

Interest  on  available-for-sale  financial  assets  calculated  using  the  effective  interest  method  is  recognised  in  the 
profit and loss account as part of other income. Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised 
in  the  profit  and  loss  account  as  part  of  “other  operating  income”  when  the  Group’s  right  to  receive  payments  is 
established.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

95

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.8  investments (Continued)

(e)  recognition and measurement

Regular  way  purchases  and  sales  of  investments  are  recognised  on  trade-date  –  the  date  on  which  the  Group 
commits  to  purchase  or  sell  the  asset.  Investments  are  initially  recognised  at  fair  value  plus  transaction  costs  for 
all  financial  assets  not  carried  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss.  Investments  are  derecognised  when  the  rights 
to  receive  cash  flows  from  the  investments  have  expired  or  have  been  transferred  and  the  Group  has  transferred 
substantially  all  risks  and  rewards  of  ownership.  Available-for-sale  financial  assets  and  portfolio  investments  are 
subsequently carried at fair value. Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method less impairment losses, if any.

Realised  and  unrealised  gains  and  losses  arising  from  changes  in  the  fair  value  of  the  portfolio  investments  are 
included in the consolidated profit and loss account in the period in which they arise. Unrealised gains and losses 
arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets are 
recognised in other comprehensive income. When securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets are sold 
or  impaired,  the  accumulated  fair  value  adjustments  are  included  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  as 
gains and losses from available-for-sale financial assets.

The  fair  values  of  quoted  investments  are  based  on  current  bid  prices.  If  the  market  for  a  financial  asset  is  not 
active  (and  for  unlisted  securities),  the  Group  establishes  fair  value  by  using  valuation  techniques.  These  include 
the  use  of  recent  arm’s  length  transactions,  reference  to  other  instruments  that  are  substantially  the  same, 
discounted cash flow analysis, and option pricing models refined to reflect the issuer’s specific circumstances.

The  Group  may  choose  to  reclassify  a  non-derivative  trading  financial  asset  out  of  the  portfolio  investments 
category  if  the  financial  asset  is  no  longer  held  for  the  purpose  of  selling  it  in  the  near  term.  Financial  assets 
other  than  loans  and  receivables  are  permitted  to  be  reclassified  out  of  the  held  for  trading  category  only  in  rare 
circumstances arising from a single event that is unusual and highly unlikely to recur in the near term. In addition, 
the  Group  may  choose  to  reclassify  financial  assets  that  would  meet  the  definition  of  loans  and  receivables  or 
held-to-maturity investments out of the portfolio investments or available-for-sale financial assets categories if the 
Group has the intention and ability to hold these financial assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity at the 
date of reclassification.

Reclassifications  are  made  at  fair  value  as  of  the  reclassification  date.  Fair  value  becomes  the  new  cost  or 
amortised cost as applicable, and no reversals of fair value gains or losses recorded before reclassification date are 
subsequently  made.  Effective  interest  rates  for  financial  assets  reclassified  to  loans  and  receivables  and  held-to-
maturity  categories  are  determined  at  the  reclassification  date.  Further  increases  in  estimates  of  cash  flows  adjust 
effective interest rates prospectively.

The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group 
of  financial  assets  is  impaired.  In  the  case  of  equity  securities  classified  as  available-for-sale  financial  assets,  a 
significant  or  prolonged  decline  in  the  fair  value  of  the  securities  below  its  cost  is  considered  in  determining 
whether the securities are impaired. If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative 
loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on 
that  financial  asset  previously  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  is  removed  from  equity  and 
recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account. Impairment losses recognised in the consolidated profit and 
loss account on equity instruments are not reversed through the consolidated profit and loss account.

96 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.8  investments (Continued)

(e)  recognition and measurement (Continued)

Impairment  on  held-to-maturity  investments  is  considered  at  both  an  individual  and  collective  level.  The 
individual  impairment  allowance  is  measured  as  the  difference  between  the  asset’s  carrying  amount  and  the 
present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at asset’s original effective interest rate, where the effect of 
discounting is material.

For loans and receivables category, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount  and  the  present  value  of  estimated  future  cash  flows  (excluding  future  credit  losses  that  have  not  been 
incurred)  discounted  at  the  financial  asset’s  original  effective  interest  rate.  The  carrying  amount  of  the  asset  is 
reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account. If a loan or held-to-
maturity investment has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current 
effective interest rate determined under the contract. As a practical expedient, the Group may measure impairment 
on the basis of an instrument’s fair value using an observable market price.

(f)  offsetting financial instruments

Financial  assets  and  liabilities  are  offset  and  the  net  amount  reported  in  the  balance  sheet  when  there  is  a  legally 
enforceable  right  to  offset  the  recognised  amounts  and  there  is  an  intention  to  settle  on  a  net  basis  or  realise  the 
asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events 
and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of 
the company or the counterparty.

2.9  inventories

Inventories mainly comprise bunkers  and consumable stores. Cost is calculated on weighted average basis. Inventories 
are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses.

2.10 Debtors

Debtors  are  recognised  initially  at  fair  value  and  subsequently  measured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective  interest 
method,  less  provision  for  impairment.  A  provision  for  impairment  of  debtors  is  established  when  there  is  objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. The 
amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future 
cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The amount of the provision is recognised in the consolidated profit 
and loss account.

If collection of debtors is expected in one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they 
are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets.

2.11 Cash and cash equivalents

Cash  and  cash  equivalents  include  cash  in  hand,  deposits  held  at  call  with  banks  with  original  maturities  of  three 
months  or  less  and  net  of  bank  overdrafts.  Bank  overdrafts  are  shown  within  borrowings  in  current  liabilities  on  the 
consolidated balance sheet.

2.12 Share capital

Ordinary shares are classified as equity.

Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the 
proceeds.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

97

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.13 Creditors

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business 
from suppliers. Creditors are  classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal 
operating cycle of the business if longer. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.

Trade  creditors  are  recognised  initially  at  fair  value  and  subsequently  measured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective 
interest method.

2.14 Borrowings

Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at 
amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in 
the consolidated profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.

Borrowings  are  classified  as  current  liabilities  unless  the  Group  has  an  unconditional  right  to  defer  settlement  of  the 
liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.

Fees  paid  on  the  establishment  of  loan  facilities  are  recognised  as  transaction  costs  of  the  loan  to  the  extent  that  it 
is  probable  that  some  or  all  of  the  facility  will  be  drawn  down.  In  this  case,  the  fee  is  deferred  until  the  draw-down 
occurs. To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is 
capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.

2.15 Current and deferred taxation

The  tax  expense  for  the  year  comprises  current  and  deferred  tax.  Tax  is  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss 
account, except to the extent that it relates to item recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In 
this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.

The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet  date  in  the  countries  where  the  Company’s  subsidiaries,  joint  ventures  and  associated  companies  operate  and 
generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in 
which  applicable  tax  regulation  is  subject  to  interpretation.  It  establishes  provisions  where  appropriate  on  the  basis  of 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.

Deferred taxation is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases 
of  assets  and  liabilities  and  their  carrying  amounts  in  the  consolidated  financial  statements.  However,  if  the  deferred 
taxation arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at 
the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred taxation 
is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected 
to apply when the related deferred taxation asset is realised or the deferred taxation liability is settled.

Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be utilised.

Deferred  taxation  is  provided  on  temporary  differences  arising  on  investments  in  subsidiaries,  associated  companies 
and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it 
is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
against  current  tax  liabilities  and  when  the  deferred  income  tax  assets  and  liabilities  related  to  income  taxes  levied  by 
the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle 
the balances on a net basis.

98 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.16 employee benefits

(a)  pension obligations

The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension and retirement benefit schemes 
in  the  main  countries  in  which  the  Group  operates.  These  schemes  are  generally  funded  by  payments  from 
employees and by relevant group companies, taking into account of the recommendations of independent qualified 
actuaries where required.

A  defined  benefit  plan  is  a  pension  plan  that  is  not  a  defined  contribution  plan.  Typically  defined  benefit  plans 
define  an  amount  of  pension  benefit  that  an  employee  will  receive  on  retirement,  usually  dependent  on  one  or 
more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.

The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit 
obligation  is  calculated  annually  by  independent  actuaries  using  the  projected  expected  benefit  payments.  The 
present  value  of  the  defined  benefit  obligation  is  determined  by  discounting  the  estimated  future  cash  outflows 
using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will 
be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. In countries 
where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.

The  current  service  cost  of  the  defined  benefit  plan,  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  in 
employee benefit expense, except where included in the cost of an asset, reflects the increase in the defined benefit 
obligation results from employee service in the current year, benefit changes, curtailments and settlements.

Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the consolidated profit and loss account.

The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation 
and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in the consolidated profit and 
loss account.

Actuarial  gains  and  losses  arising  from  experience  adjustments  and  changes  in  actuarial  assumptions  are  charged 
or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.

Contributions under the defined contribution schemes are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are 
due and are reduced by contributions forfeited by those employees who leave the scheme prior to vesting fully in 
the contributions. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction 
in the future payments is available.

(b)  Bonus plans

The  Group  recognises  a  liability  and  an  expense  for  bonuses,  based  on  a  formula  that  takes  into  consideration 
the profit attributable to the Company’s shareholders after certain adjustments. The Group recognises a provision 
where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.

(c)  employee leave entitlements

Employee  entitlements  to  annual  leave  are  recognised  when  they  accrue  to  employees.  A  provision  is  made  for 
the estimated liability for annual leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the balance sheet date. 
Employee entitlements to sick leave and maternity leave are not recognised until the time of leave.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

99

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.17 provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated.

Where  there  are  a  number  of  similar  obligations,  the  likelihood  that  an  outflow  will  be  required  in  settlement  is 
determined  by  considering  the  class  of  obligations  as  a  whole.  A  provision  is  recognised  even  if  the  likelihood  of  an 
outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.

2.18 insurance contracts

The Company regards its financial guarantees provided to its subsidiaries as insurance contracts. The Company initially 
and subsequently assesses at each balance sheet date the liabilities under its insurance contracts using current estimates 
of future cash flows. Changes in carrying amount of these insurance liabilities are recognised in the consolidated profit 
and loss account.

2.19 Segment information

Operating  segments  are  reported  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the  internal  reporting  provided  to  the  chief  operating 
decision-maker.  The  chief  operating  decision-maker,  who  is  responsible  for  allocating  resources  and  assessing 
performance of the operating segments and making strategic decisions, has been identified as the Board of Directors.

2.20 foreign currency translation

(a)  functional and presentation currency

Items  included  in  the  financial  statements  of  each  of  the  Group’s  entities  are  measured  using  the  currency  of 
the  primary  economic  environment  in  which  the  entity  operates  (the  “functional  currency”).  The  consolidated 
financial  statements  are  presented  in  US  dollar,  which  is  the  Company’s  functional  currency  and  the  Group’s 
presentation currency.

(b)  transactions and balances

Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and 
from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Changes  in  the  fair  value  of  debt  securities  denominated  in  foreign  currency  classified  as  available  for  sale  are 
analysed  between  translation  differences  resulting  from  changes  in  the  amortised  cost  of  the  security  and  other 
changes  in  the  carrying  amount  of  the  security.  Translation  differences  related  to  changes  in  amortised  cost  are 
recognised in profit or loss, and other changes in carrying amount are recognised in other comprehensive income.

Translation  differences  on  non-monetary  items,  such  as  equities  held  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss,  are 
reported  as  part  of  the  fair  value  gain  or  loss.  Translation  differences  on  non-monetary  items,  such  as  equities 
classified as available-for-sale financial assets, are included in the assets revaluation reserve in other comprehensive 
income.

100 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.20 foreign currency translation (Continued)

(c)  Group companies

The results and financial position of all the group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary 
economy)  that  have  a  functional  currency  different  from  the  presentation  currency  are  translated  into  the 
presentation currency as follows:

(i) 

assets  and  liabilities  for  each  balance  sheet  presented  are  translated  at  the  closing  rate  at  the  date  of  that 
balance sheet;

(ii) 

income  and  expenses  for  each  profit  and  loss  account  are  translated  at  average  exchange  rates  (unless 
this  average  is  not  a  reasonable  approximation  of  the  cumulative  effect  of  the  rates  prevailing  on  the 
transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rates prevailing on the dates of the 
transactions); and

(iii)  all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.

On  consolidation,  exchange  differences  arising  from  the  translation  of  the  net  investment  in  foreign  entities,  and  of 
borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to other comprehensive 
income. When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss 
account as part of the gain or loss on sale.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of 
the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.

2.21 revenue recognition

Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of services, net of value-added 
tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. The Group recognises revenue when the amount 
of  revenue  can  be  reliably  measured,  it  is  probable  that  future  economic  benefits  will  flow  to  the  entity  and  when 
specific criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities as described below. Revenue is recognised as follows:

(a)  Freight revenues from the operation of the container transport are recognised on a percentage of completion basis, 

which is determined on the time proportion method of each individual vessel voyage.

(b)  Revenues from logistics business are recognised when services are rendered or on an accrual basis.

(c)  Revenues from the operation of container terminals and provision of other services are recognised when services 

are rendered or on an accrual basis.

(d)  Rental income under operating leases is recognised over the periods of the respective leases on a straight-line basis.

(e) 

Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.

(f)  Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

101

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.22 leases

(a)  operating lease

Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified 
as  operating  leases.  Payments  made  under  operating  leases,  net  of  any  incentives  received  from  the  lessor,  are 
charged to the consolidated profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.

The up-front prepayments made for the leasehold land and land use rights are expensed in the consolidated profit 
and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease or where there is impairment, the impairment 
is expensed in the consolidated profit and loss account.

(b)  finance lease

Leases of assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance 
leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased assets 
and  the  present  value  of  the  minimum  lease  payments.  Each  lease  payment  is  allocated  between  the  liability  and 
finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the balance outstanding. The corresponding rental obligations, 
net  of  finance  charges,  are  included  in  current  and  non-current  borrowings.  The  interest  element  of  the  finance 
cost  is  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  over  the  lease  period  so  as  to  produce  a  constant 
periodic rate of interest on the remaining balances of the liability for each period.

2.23 Borrowing costs

Borrowing  costs  are  expensed  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  in  the  period  in  which  they  are  incurred, 
except to the extent that they are capitalised as being directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production 
of a qualifying asset which necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale.

The  capitalisation  of  borrowing  costs  as  part  of  the  cost  of  a  qualifying  asset  commences  when  expenditure  for  the 
asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for its 
intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the 
activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.

2.24 Derivative financial instruments

Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and 
are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. Changes in fair value are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss 
account.

2.25 Dividend distribution

Dividend  distribution  to  the  Company’s  equity  holders  is  recognised  as  a  liability  in  the  Group’s  and  the  Company’s 
financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s Directors/equity holders.

3.  financial risk management

3.1  financial risk factors

The  Group’s  activities  expose  it  to  a  variety  of  financial  risks:  foreign  exchange  risk,  price  risk,  credit  risk,  liquidity 
risk  and  cash  flow  and  fair  value  interest-rate  risk.  The  Group’s  overall  risk  management  policy  focuses  on  the 
unpredictability  of  financial  markets  and  seeks  to  minimise  potential  adverse  effects  on  the  Group’s  financial 
performance.

The  Group  has  regularly  monitored  current  and  expected  liquidity  requirements  against  the  cash  on  hand,  expected 
net  operating  cash  flow,  committed  facilities  and  its  compliance  with  loan  covenants,  to  ensure  the  Group’s  liquidity 
requirements can be met in the short and longer term.

102 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.1  financial risk factors (Continued)

The Group has paid ongoing attention on credit quality of counterparties, in particular major customers and financial 
institutions with relationship in terms of debt securities, derivatives and cash transactions. Credit qualities of respective 
counterparties are disclosed in respective notes to the consolidated financial statements.

(a)  foreign exchange risk

The  Group  operates  internationally  and  is  exposed  to  foreign  exchange  risk  arising  from  various  currency 
exposures,  primarily  with  respect  to  fluctuation  in  the  exchange  rates  of  foreign  currencies  to  the  US  dollar. 
Foreign currency exposures are covered by forward contracts and options whenever appropriate.

Income and expenses from container transport and logistics activities are mainly denominated in US dollar and in 
various currencies, mainly including Euro, Canadian dollar, Japanese yen and Renminbi.

To  limit  currency  exposure,  the  US  dollar  based  activities  are  financed  primarily  by  loans  in  US  dollar.  With  all 
other  variables  held  constant,  an  average  change  in  the  US  dollar  exchange  rate  of  1%,  compared  with  all  other 
non-US  dollar  related  currencies,  has  a  positive/negative  effect  on  the  results  for  2015  of  approximately  US$5.0 
million (2014: US$10.9 million).

(b)  price risk

The  container  transport  and  logistics  activities  are  sensitive  to  economic  fluctuations.  The  Group  is  exposed  to 
freight  rate  risk.  The  Group’s  revenue  will  increase/decrease  by  US$50.9  million  (2014:  US$56.5  million)  for  1% 
increase/reduction of the average container freight rates with all other variables held constant.

The  Group  is  exposed  to  bunker  price  risk  for  its  container  transport  and  logistics  activities.  Bunker  cost  is  one 
of the major cost components of container transport and logistics activities. To manage its price risk arising from 
bunker, the Group enters into bunker price derivative contracts. An increase in bunker price can only be partially 
compensated  through  freight  surcharge  bunker  price  adjustment.  With  all  other  variables  held  constant,  the 
operating cost will be increased by approximately US$1.7 million (2014: US$1.7 million) for one US dollar increase 
in bunker price per ton.

The  Group  is  also  exposed  to  equity/debt  securities  price  risk  because  of  investments  held  by  the  Group  include 
available-for-sale financial assets or portfolio investments which are accounted at fair value through profit or loss. 
To  manage  its  price  risk  arising  from  investments  in  equity/debt  securities,  the  Group  diversifies  its  portfolio.  If 
the prices of the respective quoted equity/debt securities of the Group had been increased/decreased by 1% and all 
other  variables  held  constant,  the  profit  after  taxation  and  the  other  comprehensive  income  of  the  Group  for  the 
year  ended  31st  December  2015  would  increase/decrease  by  US$2.9  million  (2014:  US$2.1  million)  and  US$0.8 
million  (2014:  US$0.7  million)  respectively  as  a  result  of  the  changes  in  fair  value  of  equity/debt  securities  under 
portfolio investments and equity securities classified as available-for-sale.

(c)  Credit risk

The  Group  has  no  significant  concentrations  of  credit  risk.  It  has  policies  in  place  to  ensure  that  services  are 
provided to customers with an appropriate credit history.

The  extent  of  the  Group’s  credit  exposure  is  represented  by  the  aggregate  balance  of  cash  and  bank  balances, 
portfolio  investments,  held-to-maturity  investments,  derivative  financial  instruments,  restricted  bank  balances, 
other deposits and debtors and prepayments. The credit quality of these exposures is disclosed in relevant notes to 
the consolidated financial statements.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

103

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.1  financial risk factors (Continued)

(d)  liquidity risk

Prudent  liquidity  risk  management  implies  maintaining  sufficient  cash  and  cash  equivalents,  the  availability  of 
funding  through  an  adequate  amount  of  committed  credit  facilities  and  the  ability  to  close  out  market  positions. 
The  Group  aims  to  maintain  flexibility  in  funding  by  keeping  sufficient  cash  and  cash  equivalents  and  readily 
realisable liquid assets.

Surplus  cash  held  by  the  operating  entities  over  and  above  balance  required  for  working  capital  management  is 
transferred to the Group Treasury. Group Treasury invests surplus cash in interest bearing current accounts, time 
deposits,  money  market  deposits  and  marketable  securities,  choosing  instruments  with  appropriate  maturities 
or  sufficient  liquidity  to  provide  sufficient  head-room.  At  the  reporting  date,  the  Group  held  liquid  assets  of 
US$2,387.4  million  (2014:  US$2,456.7  million)  that  are  expected  to  readily  generate  cash  inflows  for  managing 
liquidity risk.

The  table  below  analyses  the  Group’s  non-derivative  financial  liabilities  and  net-settled  derivative  financial 
liabilities  into  relevant  maturity  groupings  based  on  the  remaining  period  at  the  balance  sheet  date  to  the 
contractual  maturity  date.  The  amounts  disclosed  in  the  table  are  the  contractual  undiscounted  cash  flows. 
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.

US$’000

at 31st December 2015
Borrowings
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to joint ventures
Derivative financial instruments

At 31st December 2014
Borrowings
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to joint ventures
Derivative financial instruments

less than
1 year

Between 1
and 2 years

Between 2
and 5 years

over
5 years

511,559
750,378
11,037
5,316

443,959
942,704
7,145
1,371

715,273
–
–
–

470,497
–
–
2,503

1,629,265
–
–
–

1,672,921
–
–
–

1,623,415
–
–
–

1,789,107
–
–
–

(e)  Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk

The  Group’s  income  and  operating  cash  flows  are  substantially  independent  of  changes  in  market  interest  rates. 
The Group has a policy to place surplus funds with creditable financial institutions which offer the best return for 
the Group on a short-term basis.

There are no material fixed rate receivables or borrowings in the Group.

The  Group  is  exposed  to  cash  flow  interest  rate  risk  through  the  impact  of  rate  changes  on  interest  bearing 
bank  balances  and  borrowings.  These  exposures  are  partially  managed  through  the  use  of  derivative  financial 
instruments such as interest rate swaps.

At 31st December 2015, if interest rates had been 0.1% higher/lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax 
profit for the year would have been US$1.8 million lower/higher (2014: US$1.7 million lower/higher), mainly as a 
result of higher/lower net interest expense on the net floating rate borrowings.

104 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.2  Capital risk management

The  Group’s  objectives  when  managing  capital  are  to  safeguard  the  Group’s  ability  to  continue  as  a  going  concern 
in  order  to  provide  returns  for  shareholders  and  benefits  for  other  stakeholders  and  to  maintain  an  optimal  capital 
structure to reduce the cost of capital.

In  order  to  maintain  or  adjust  the  capital  structure,  the  Group  may  adjust  the  amount  of  dividends  paid  to  equity 
holders, return capital to equity holders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.

Consistent  with  others  in  the  industry,  the  Group  monitors  capital  on  the  basis  of  the  gearing  ratio.  This  ratio  is 
calculated  as  net  debt  divided  by  total  equity.  Net  debt  is  calculated  as  total  borrowings  (including  “current  and  non-
current borrowings” as shown in the consolidated balance sheet) less restricted bank balances, cash and bank balances 
and portfolio investments.

The gearing ratios at 31st December 2015 and 2014 were as follows:

US$’000

Total borrowings (note 36)
Less: 

Restricted bank balances (note 24)
Cash and bank balances (note 33)
Portfolio investments (note 31)

Net debt

Total equity

Gearing ratio

2015

2014

(4,101,719)
1,423
2,015,581
295,894

(3,984,502)
54,581
2,165,914
223,423

(1,788,821)

(1,540,584)

4,797,510

4,634,752

0.37

0.33

The change in net debt position results primarily from the purchase of property, plant and equipment.

3.3  fair value estimation

The  financial  instruments  that  are  measured  in  the  balance  sheet  at  fair  value,  require  disclosure  of  fair  value 
measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy:

•  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).
• 

Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
(that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2).
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).

• 

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

105

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.3  fair value estimation (Continued)

The  following  tables  present  the  Group’s  financial  assets  and  liability  that  are  measured  at  fair  value  at  31st  December 
2015 and 2014.

US$’000

assets
Portfolio investments
  – Equity securities
  – Debt securities
  – Funds and other investments
Derivative financial instruments
Available-for-sale financial assets
  – Listed equity securities
  – Other investments

total assets

liability
Derivative financial instruments

total liability

US$’000

assets
Portfolio investments
  – Equity securities
  – Debt securities
  – Funds and other investments
Derivative financial instruments
Available-for-sale financial assets
  – Listed equity securities
  – Other investments

total assets

liability
Derivative financial instruments

total liability

2015

level 1

level 2

level 3

total

51,865
234,172
–
–

75,962
–

–
–
9,857
1,654

–
–

361,999

11,511

–

–

5,316

5,316

2014

–
–
–
–

–
52,036

52,036

–

–

51,865
234,172
9,857
1,654

75,962
52,036

425,546

5,316

5,316

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

17,297
194,436
–
–

67,404
–

279,137

–

–

–
–
11,690
2,888

–
–

14,578

3,355

3,355

–
–
–
–

–
72,232

72,232

–

–

17,297
194,436
11,690
2,888

67,404
72,232

365,947

3,355

3,355

There were no transfers among levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year.

The  fair  value  of  financial  instruments  traded  in  active  markets  is  based  on  quoted  market  prices  at  the  balance  sheet 
date. A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, 
industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market 
transactions on an arm’s length basis. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current 
bid price. These instruments are included in level 1. Instruments included in level 1 comprise portfolio investments and 
listed equity securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets.

106 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.3  fair value estimation (Continued)

The  fair  value  of  financial  instruments  that  are  not  traded  in  an  active  market  (for  example,  over-the-counter 
derivatives)  is  determined  by  using  valuation  techniques.  These  valuation  techniques  maximise  the  use  of  observable 
market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required 
to  fair  value  an  instrument  are  observable,  the  instrument  is  included  in  level  2.  Instruments  in  level  2  include  the 
derivative financial instruments.

If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.

Specific valuation techniques used to value level 2 and 3 financial instruments include:

• 
• 

• 

Dealer quotes.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on 
observable yield curves.
The  fair  value  of  forward  foreign  exchange  contracts  is  determined  using  forward  exchange  rates  at  the  balance 
sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value.

•  Marketability discount rate derived from management’s judgement is applied to estimate the fair value of unlisted 

equity security classified as available-for-sale financial asset.

There were no changes in valuation techniques during the year.

Instruments included in level 3 mainly comprise unlisted equity securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets.

The following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments.

US$’000

Opening balance
Disposals
Fair value change recognised in other comprehensive income

Closing balance

2015

72,232
–
(20,196)

52,036

2014

112,146
(10)
(39,904)

72,232

For level 3 instruments, the discount rate used to compute the fair value is 15%. The higher the discount rate, the lower 
the fair value.

4.  Critical accounting estimates and judgements

Estimates  and  judgements  used  in  preparing  the  financial  statements  are  continually  evaluated  and  are  based  on  historical 
experience  and  other  factors,  including  expectations  of  future  events  that  are  believed  to  be  reasonable  under  the 
circumstances.

The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 
financial year are discussed below.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

107

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
4.  Critical accounting estimates and judgements (Continued)

(a)  income taxes

The  Group  is  subject  to  income  taxes  in  numerous  jurisdictions.  Significant  judgement  is  required  in  determining 
the  worldwide  provision  for  income  taxes.  There  are  many  transactions  and  calculations  for  which  the  ultimate  tax 
determination  is  uncertain  during  the  ordinary  course  of  business.  Where  the  final  tax  outcome  of  these  matters  is 
different  from  the  amounts  that  were  initially  recorded,  such  differences  will  impact  the  income  tax  and  deferred  tax 
provisions in the period in which such determination is made.

Recognition  of  deferred  tax  assets,  which  principally  relate  to  tax  losses,  depends  on  the  management’s  expectation  of 
future taxable profit that will be available against which tax losses can be utilised. The outcome of their actual utilisation 
may be different.

(b)  investment property

The fair value of investment property is determined by an independent valuer on an open market for existing use basis. 
In  making  the  judgement,  consideration  has  been  given  to  assumptions  that  are  mainly  based  on  market  conditions 
existing at the balance sheet date and appropriate capitalisation rates. Management has critically assessed these estimates 
and has regularly compared to actual market data and, if applicable actual transactions entered into by the Group.

(c)  property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Management  determines  the  estimated  useful  lives  and  residual  values  for  the  Group’s  property,  plant  and  equipment 
and intangible assets. Management will revise the depreciation charge where useful lives and residual values are different 
from previously estimated.

Management  determines  the  estimated  useful  lives  and  related  depreciation  expenses  for  the  vessels  and  containers. 
Management  estimates  useful  lives  of  its  vessels  and  containers  by  reference  to  expected  usage  of  the  vessels  and 
containers,  expected  repair  and  maintenance,  and  technical  or  commercial  obsolescence  arising  from  changes  or 
improvements  in  the  market.  It  could  change  significantly  as  a  result  of  the  changes  of  these  factors.  After  the  review 
carried  out  this  year,  the  estimated  useful  lives  of  containers  were  revised  as  set  out  in  note  2.1  to  the  consolidated 
financial statements.

Were  the  useful  lives  of  vessels  and  containers  to  differ  by  10%  from  management  estimates  with  all  other  variables 
held constant, it is estimated that depreciation expense would increase or decrease by approximately US$49.9 million or 
US$35.4 million respectively (2014: US$55.2 million or US$38.4 million respectively).

The  Group’s  management  determines  the  residual  values  for  its  vessels  and  containers.  This  estimate  is  based  on  the 
current scrap values of steels in an active market at each measurement date since management decides to dispose of the 
fully depreciated vessels and containers as scrap steels. Depreciation expense would increase where the residual values 
are less than previously estimated values.

Were the residual values of containers and vessels to differ by 10% from management estimates with all other variables 
held constant, it is estimated that depreciation expense would increase or decrease by approximately US$11.1 million or 
US$12.0 million respectively (2014: US$12.9 million or US$14.1 million respectively).

(d)  provision of operating cost

Operating  costs,  which  mainly  comprise  cargo,  vessel  and  voyage  costs,  equipment  repositioning  cost  and  terminal 
operating  cost.  Invoices  in  relation  to  these  expenses  are  received  approximately  up  to  four  months  after  the  expenses 
have been incurred. Consequently, recognition of accrued operating costs is based on the rendering of services as well 
as the latest tariff agreed with vendors.

If  the  actual  expenses  of  a  voyage  differ  from  the  estimated  expenses,  this  will  have  an  impact  on  operating  cost  in 
future periods. Historically, the Group has not experienced significant deviation from the actual expenses.

108 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements4.  Critical accounting estimates and judgements (Continued)

(e)  Held-to-maturity investments

The  Group  follows  HKAS  39  guidance  on  classifying  non-derivative  financial  assets  with  fixed  or  determinable 
payments  and  fixed  maturity  as  held-to-maturity  investments.  This  classification  requires  significant  judgement.  In 
making this judgement, the Group evaluates its intention and ability to hold such investments to maturity.

5.  revenue and segment information

(a)  revenue

US$’000

Container transport and logistics
Others

2015

5,927,023
26,421

2014

6,494,859
26,730

5,953,444

6,521,589

The principal activities of the Group are container transport and logistics.

Revenue comprises turnover which includes gross freight, charter hire, service and other income from the operation of 
the container transport and logistics and rental income from the investment property.

(b)  Segment information

The  principal  activities  of  the  Group  are  container  transport  and  logistics.  Container  transport  and  logistics  include 
global  containerised  shipping  services  in  major  trade  lanes,  covering  Trans-Pacific,  Trans-Atlantic,  Asia/Europe,  Asia/
Australia and Intra-Asia trades, and integrated services over the management and control of effective storage and flow 
of goods. In accordance with the Group’s internal financial reporting provided to the chief operating decision-makers, 
who  are  responsible  for  allocating  resources,  assessing  performance  of  the  operating  segments  and  making  strategic 
decisions,  the  reportable  operating  segments  are  container  transport  and  logistics  and  others.  The  executive  directors 
are the Group’s chief operating decision makers.

operating segments

The segment results for the year ended 31st December 2015 are as follows:

US$’000

revenue

Operating profit
Finance costs (note 12)
Share of profits of joint ventures (note 19)
Share of profits of associated companies (note 20)

profit before taxation
Taxation

profit for the year

Capital expenditure
Depreciation
Amortisation

Container
transport
and logistics

5,927,023

276,211
(63,642)
4,168
13,614

230,351
(12,338)

218,013

796,265
315,425
4,187

others

elimination

Group

27,364

76,857
–
–
–

76,857
(11,019)

65,838

455
1
–

(943)

5,953,444

–
–
–
–

–
–

–

–
–
–

353,068
(63,642)
4,168
13,614

307,208
(23,357)

283,851

796,720
315,426
4,187

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

109

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
5.  revenue and segment information (Continued)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

operating segments (Continued)

The segment results for the year ended 31st December 2014 are as follows:

US$’000

revenue

Operating profit
Finance costs (note 12)
Share of profits of joint ventures (note 19)
Share of profits of associated companies (note 20)

profit before taxation
Taxation

profit for the year

Capital expenditure
Depreciation
Amortisation

Container
transport
and logistics

6,494,859

229,979
(54,000)
4,364
15,072

195,415
(16,727)

178,688

848,422
323,481
8,672

Others

Elimination

Group

27,638

99,168
–
–
–

99,168
(7,418)

91,750

347
1
–

(908)

6,521,589

–
–
–
–

–
–

–

–
–
–

329,147
(54,000)
4,364
15,072

294,583
(24,145)

270,438

848,769
323,482
8,672

The segment assets and liabilities at 31st December 2015 and 2014 are as follows:

US$’000 

Segment assets 
Joint ventures 
Associated companies  

Total assets 

Segment liabilities 

US$’000

Segment assets
Joint ventures
Associated companies

Total assets

Segment liabilities

Container 
transport 
and logistics 

6,947,634
11,758
145,249

2015 

others 

Group  

2,626,933
–
–

9,574,567
11,758
145,249

7,104,641

2,626,933

9,731,574

(4,865,720)

(68,344)

(4,934,064)

Container
transport
and logistics

6,861,002
9,248
152,499

2014

Others

2,610,706
–
–

Group

9,471,708
9,248
152,499

7,022,749

2,610,706

9,633,455

(4,938,332)

(60,371)

(4,998,703)

The segment of “Others” primarily includes assets and liabilities of property and corporate level activities. Assets under 
the  segment  of  “Others”  consist  primarily  of  investment  property,  available-for-sale  financial  assets,  held-to-maturity 
investments  and  portfolio  investments  together  with  cash  and  bank  balances  that  are  managed  at  the  corporate  level. 
Liabilities  under  the  segment  of  “Others”  primarily  include  creditors  and  accruals  and  deferred  taxation  liabilities 
related to corporate level activities.

110 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  revenue and segment information (Continued)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

Geographical information

The Group’s two reportable operating segments operate in four main geographical areas, even though they are managed 
on  a  worldwide  basis.  Freight  revenues  from  container  transport  and  logistics  are  analysed  based  on  the  outbound 
cargoes of each geographical territory.

The Group’s total assets mainly include container vessels and containers which are primarily utilised across geographical 
markets  for  shipment  of  cargoes  throughout  the  world.  Accordingly,  non-current  assets  by  geographical  areas  are  not 
presented.

US$’000

Year ended 31st December 2015
  Asia
  Europe
  North America
  Australia
  Unallocated *

Year ended 31st December 2014
  Asia
  Europe
  North America
  Australia
  Unallocated *

revenue

Capital
expenditure

3,905,144
1,013,852
861,808
172,640
–

18,294
585
59,221
23
718,597

5,953,444

796,720

4,237,331
1,168,338
894,056
221,864
–

16,288
391
177,601
14
654,475

6,521,589

848,769

* 

Unallocated capital expenditure comprises additions to vessels, dry-docking, containers and intangible assets.

6.  operating costs

US$’000

Cargo
Vessel and voyage
Equipment and repositioning

Investment property

2015

2014

2,927,464
1,598,549
721,408

5,247,421
15,008

3,070,264
2,047,527
742,970

5,860,761
15,036

5,262,429

5,875,797

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

111

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
7.  other operating income

US$’000

Income from available-for-sale financial assets
  – Gain on disposal
  – Distribution
  – Dividend income
Interest income from banks
Interest income from held-to-maturity investments
Portfolio investment income
  – Fair value gain (realised and unrealised)
  – Interest income
  – Dividend income
Net gain on interest rate swap contracts
Fair value gain on foreign exchange forward contracts
Gain on derecognition of borrowings
Profit on disposal of a subsidiary
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Others

8.  other operating expenses

US$’000

Business and administrative
Portfolio investment loss
  – Fair value loss (realised and unrealised)
Loss on bunker price derivative contracts
Exchange loss

9.  employee benefit expense

US$’000

Wages and salaries

Pension and retirement benefits
  – Defined contribution plans (note 23)
  – Defined benefit plans

2015

2014

–
5,803
24,749
16,954
11,481

–
9,784
1,144
411
1,919
35,533
–
221
4,251

27
3,660
40,175
17,714
12,306

6,284
7,668
810
165
1,130
13,508
4,964
9,697
1,272

112,250

119,380

2015

2014

441,917

432,448

10,948
6,595
10,282

–
–
13,230

469,742

445,678

2015

2014

497,148

490,616

26,498
1,269

26,262
1,232

524,915

518,110

Employee  benefit  expenses  of  US$184.8  million  (2014:  US$181.1  million)  are  included  in  “operating  costs”  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account.

112 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  Directors’ and management’s emoluments

(a)  Directors’ emoluments

The remuneration of every Director is set out below:

Name of Director
US$’000

for the year ended
  31st December 2015

Mr. C C Tung
Mr. Tsann Rong Chang*2
Prof. Roger King
Mr. Philip Chow
Mr. Andrew Tung
Mr. Alan Tung
Mr. Simon Murray
Prof. Richard Wong
Mr. Edward Cheng
Mr. Clement Kwok

fees

107
28
60
53
–
–
32
47
32
16

Name of Director
US$’000

For the year ended 31st December 2014 

(Restated)

Mr. C C Tung
Mr. Tsann Rong Chang
Prof. Roger King
Mr. Philip Chow
Mr. Andrew Tung
Mr. Alan Tung
Mr. Simon Murray
Prof. Richard Wong
Mr. Edward Cheng

Salary
and
benefits

estimated
money value
of other
benefits*1

employer’s
contribution
to provident
fund scheme

Discre-
tionary
bonuses

663
–
–
–
502
474
–
–
–
–

Fees

107
59
60
32
–
–
32
47
32

107
–
–
–
81
65
–
–
–
–

75
–
–
–
9
6
–
–
–
–

77
–
–
–
58
54
–
–
–
–

Estimated
money value
of other
benefits*1

Employer’s
contribution
to provident
fund scheme

Salary
and
benefits

637
–
–
270
482
331
–
–
–

81
–
–
–
9
6
–
–
–

64
–
–
–
48
33
–
–
–

total

1,029
28
60
53
650
599
32
47
32
16

Total

889
59
60
302
539
370
32
47
32

The discretionary bonuses paid in 2015 relate to performance for year 2014.

*1  Other benefits include car related expenses and club membership.

*2 

Resigned on 31st August 2015.

None of the Directors has waived the right to receive their emoluments.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

113

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  Directors’ and management’s emoluments (Continued)

(b)  five highest paid individuals

The five individuals whose emoluments were the highest in the Group for the year include three (2014: two) Directors 
whose  emoluments  are  reflected  in  the  analysis  presented  above.  The  emoluments  payable  to  the  remaining  two 
individuals (2014: three individuals) are as follows:

US$’000

Basic salaries, housing allowances, other allowances and benefits in kind
Discretionary bonuses
Estimated money value of other benefits
Pension costs – defined contribution plans

The emoluments of the five individuals fell within the following bands:

emolument bands (US$)

384,601 ~ 448,700 
(HK$3,000,001 ~ HK$3,500,000)
448,701 ~ 512,800 
(HK$3,500,001 ~ HK$4,000,000)
512,801 ~ 576,900 
(HK$4,000,001 ~ HK$4,500,000)
576,901 ~ 641,000 
(HK$4,500,001 ~ HK$5,000,000)
641,001 ~ 705,100 
(HK$5,000,001 ~ HK$5,500,000)
(HK$6,500,001 ~ HK$7,000,000)
833,301 ~ 897,400 
1,025,601 ~ 1,089,700 (HK$8,000,001 ~ HK$8,500,000)

(c)  Key management compensation

US$’000

Salaries and other employee benefits
Estimated money value of other benefits
Pension costs – defined contribution plans

2015

850
69
5
68

992

2014
(Restated)

1,099
–
11
109

1,219

Number of individuals

2015

2014
(Restated)

–
2
–
1
1
–
1

5

3
–
1
–
–
1
–

5

2015

4,678
106
434

5,218

2014
(Restated)

3,665
109
323

4,097

(d)  Certain of the comparative information of directors’ and management’s emoluments for the year ended 31st December 
2014  previously  disclosed  in  accordance  with  the  predecessor  Companies  Ordinance  have  been  restated  in  order  to 
comply with the new scope and requirements by the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622).

The  Group  usually  determines  and  pays  discretionary  bonuses  to  employees  (including  Directors)  around  April/May  each 
year  based  on  the  actual  financial  results  of  the  Group  for  the  preceding  year.  The  discretionary  bonuses  shown  above 
represent  actual  payments  to  the  Directors  and  individuals  during  the  current  financial  year  in  relation  to  performance  for 
the preceding year.

114 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  operating profit

US$’000

Operating profit is arrived at after crediting:
  Operating lease rental income

  Land and buildings

and after charging:
  Depreciation

  Owned assets
  Leased assets

  Operating lease rental expense

  Vessels and equipment
  Terminals and berths
  Land and buildings

  Rental outgoings in respect of an investment property
  Amortisation of intangible assets
  Amortisation of prepayments of lease premiums
  Auditors’ remuneration

  Audit
  Non-audit

2015

2014

26,421

26,730

228,169
87,257

341,789
32,394
32,254
15,008
3,956
231

2,917
870

247,301
76,181

323,156
33,865
28,969
15,036
8,310
362

2,974
1,209

Operating  lease  rental  expenses  of  US$381.2  million  and  US$25.2  million  (2014:  US$361.6  million  and  US$24.4  million) 
respectively are included in “operating costs” and “other operating expenses” in the consolidated profit and loss account.

12.  finance costs

US$’000

Interest expense
  Bank loans and bank overdrafts
  Finance lease obligations

Amount capitalised under assets

Net interest expense

2015

2014

38,543
30,667

69,210
(5,568)

63,642

36,716
21,717

58,433
(4,433)

54,000

The borrowing costs of the loans to finance the assets under construction (note 16) represent an average capitalisation rate of 
approximately 3.2% (2014: 2.3%) per annum.

13.  taxation

US$’000

Current taxation
  Hong Kong profits tax
  Overseas taxation

Deferred taxation
  Hong Kong profits tax
  Overseas taxation

2015

2014

87
15,935

16,022

(273)
7,608

7,335

23,357

105
26,043

26,148

43
(2,046)

(2,003)

24,145

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

115

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13.  taxation (Continued)

Taxation  has  been  provided  at  the  appropriate  tax  rates  prevailing  in  the  countries  in  which  the  Group  operates  on  the 
estimated assessable profits for the year. These rates range from 11% to 47% (2014: 11% to 47%) and the rate applicable for 
Hong Kong profits tax is 16.5% (2014: 16.5%).

The associated companies in the People’s Republic of China enjoy preferential tax treatment.

The  tax  of  the  Group’s  profit  before  taxation  differs  from  the  theoretical  amount  that  would  arise  using  the  applicable  tax 
rates, being the weighted average of rates prevailing in the territories in which the Group operates, as follows:

US$’000

Profit before taxation
Share of profits of joint ventures
Share of profits of associated companies

Tax calculated at applicable tax rates
Income not subject to tax
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
Tax losses not recognised
Temporary differences not recognised
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses
Utilisation of previously unrecognised temporary differences
Recognition of previously unrecognised temporary differences
Withholding tax
Change in tax rates
Other items

2015

307,208
(4,168)
(13,614)

2014

294,583
(4,364)
(15,072)

289,426

275,147

91,880
(306,413)
232,949
4,671
536
(404)
(861)
(23)
1,354
(12)
(320)

65,258
(358,254)
315,263
2,584
701
(1,658)
(1,193)
–
2,515
(121)
(950)

23,357

24,145

14.  earnings per ordinary share

The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share is based on the Group’s profit attributable to equity holders 
of the Company divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.

The basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share are the same since there are no potential dilutive shares.

US$’000

Number of ordinary shares in issue (thousands)

Group’s profit/(loss) attributable to:
  Equity holders of the Company
  Non-controlling interests

2015

2014

625,793

625,793

283,851
–

270,538
(100)

283,851

270,438

Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the Company (US cents)

45.4

43.2

116 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
15.  Dividends

US$’000

Interim paid: US9.6 cents (2014: US7.5 cents) per ordinary share
Proposed final of US1.85 cents (2014: US3.4 cents) per ordinary share

2015

60,179
11,577

71,756

2014

46,989
21,277

68,266

The Board of Directors proposes a final dividend in respect of 2015 of US1.85 cents (2014: US3.4 cents) per ordinary share. 
The proposed dividend will be accounted for as an appropriation of retained profit in the year ending 31st December 2016.

16.  property, plant and equipment

Container
vessels and
capitalised
dry-docking
costs

assets
under
construction

Containers
and
chassis

terminal
equipment

freehold
land and
buildings
outside
Hong Kong

leasehold
improvement
and
furnitures

Vehicles,
computer
and other
equipment

Buildings
outside
Hong Kong

4,605,497
–
23,870
424,610
(89,163)

581,350
–
561,194
(426,148)
–

1,972,922
(125)
169,576
–
(27,422)

177,832
–
3,284
1,395
(2,081)

52,755
(2,981)
–
–
–

54,352
(2,096)
5,197
–
(4,498)

131,011
(2,159)
22,120
143
(17,302)

total

7,582,881
(7,531)
785,241
–
(140,466)

US$’000

Cost
  At 31st December 2014
  Currency translation adjustments
  Additions
  Reclassification
  Disposals

  at 31st December 2015

4,964,814

716,396

2,114,951

180,430

Accumulated depreciation
  At 31st December 2014
  Currency translation adjustments
  Charge for the year
  Disposals

939,492
–
178,858
(38,440)

  at 31st December 2015

1,079,910

–
–
–
–

–

755,897
(90)
108,647
(24,426)

116,164
–
9,324
(2,055)

840,028

123,433

Net book amount
  at 31st December 2015

3,884,904

716,396

1,274,923

  At 31st December 2014

3,666,005

581,350

1,217,025

Net book amount of leased assets
  at 31st December 2015

1,788,072

105,940

131,430

  At 31st December 2014

1,504,508

103,498

141,339

56,997

61,668

73

–

7,162
(170)
–
–
–

6,992

2,831
(115)
119
–

2,835

4,157

4,331

–

–

49,774

52,955

133,813

8,220,125

15,290
(867)
1,868
–

41,245
(1,539)
4,720
(4,452)

103,033
(1,662)
11,890
(16,351)

1,973,952
(4,273)
315,426
(85,724)

16,291

39,974

96,910

2,199,381

33,483

37,465

12,981

13,107

36,903

6,020,744

27,978

5,608,929

–

–

–

–

1,608

1,854

2,027,123

1,751,199

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

117

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
16.  property, plant and equipment (Continued)

assets
under
construction

Containers
and
chassis
(restated)

terminal
equipment
(restated)

freehold
land and
buildings
outside
Hong Kong

leasehold
improvement
and
furnitures

Buildings
outside
Hong Kong

Container
vessels and
capitalised
dry-docking
costs

4,635,626
–
21,652
(242,535)
–
272,173
(81,419)

US$’000

Cost
  At 31st December 2013
  Currency translation adjustments
  Additions
  Disposals
  Disposal of a subsidiary
  Reclassification
  Classified as asset held for sale

Accumulated depreciation
  At 31st December 2013
  Currency translation adjustments
  Charge for the year
  Disposals
  Disposal of a subsidiary
  Classified as asset held for sale

  At 31st December 2014

Net book amount
  At 31st December 2014

408,221
–
447,502
–
–
(274,373)
–

1,686,918
(29)
339,246
(53,213)
–
–
–

172,275
–
5,598
(2,241)
–
2,200
–

880,063
–
177,393
(89,442)
–
(28,522)

939,492

–
–
–
–
–
–

–

678,242
(16)
118,707
(41,036)
–
–

108,571
–
9,708
(2,115)
–
–

755,897

116,164

  At 31st December 2014

4,605,497

581,350

1,972,922

177,832

3,666,005

581,350

1,217,025

  At 31st December 2013

3,755,563

408,221

1,008,676

Net book amount of leased assets
  At 31st December 2014

1,504,508

103,498

141,339

  At 31st December 2013

1,452,740

–

30,862

61,668

63,704

–

–

Vehicles,
computer
and other
equipment
(restated)

131,156
(1,003)
12,285
(8,598)
(2,625)
–
(204)

total

7,149,611
(2,199)
834,194
(309,316)
(7,786)
–
(81,623)

131,011

7,582,881

101,143
(875)
11,761
(6,318)
(2,624)
(54)

1,829,360
(1,416)
323,482
(141,570)
(7,328)
(28,576)

103,033

1,973,952

27,978

30,013

1,854

1,823

5,608,929

5,320,251

1,751,199

1,485,425

7,167
(5)
–
–
–
–
–

7,162

2,712
(4)
123
–
–
–

2,831

4,331

4,455

–

–

57,911
(231)
–
–
(4,925)
–
–

52,755

17,755
190
1,817
–
(4,472)
–

15,290

37,465

40,156

–

–

50,337
(931)
7,911
(2,729)
(236)
–
–

54,352

40,874
(711)
3,973
(2,659)
(232)
–

41,245

13,107

9,463

–

–

(a)  The  aggregate  net  book  amount  of  assets  pledged  as  security  for  bank  loans  amounts  to  US$3,062.6  million  (2014: 
US$2,967.2  million).  Specific  charges  on  vessels  of  the  Group  include  legal  mortgages  and  assignments  of  insurance 
claims and charter hire income relating to these vessels.

(b)  Interest  costs  of  US$5.6  million  (2014:  US$4.4  million)  during  the  year  were  capitalised  as  part  of  assets  under 

construction.

(c)  Depreciation charge of US$298.9 million (2014: US$305.9 million) for the year has been expensed in “operating costs” 

and US$16.5 million (2014: US$17.6 million) in “other operating expenses”.

(d)  As at 31st December 2015 and 2014, the buildings outside Hong Kong are held under medium-term leasehold land.

118 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements16.  property, plant and equipment (Continued)

Property, plant and equipment include the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under finance leases:

US$’000

Cost – capitalised finance leases
Accumulated depreciation

Net book amount

2015

2,487,548
(460,425)

2014
(Restated)

2,159,700
(408,501)

2,027,123

1,751,199

The  Group  leases  various  container  vessels,  containers  and  assets  under  construction  under  non-cancellable  finance  lease 
agreements. The lease terms are between 5 and 25 years.

17.  investment property

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Additions

Fair value gain

Balance at end of year

2015

180,000
455

180,455
19,545

200,000

2014

170,000
347

170,347
9,653

180,000

Background and valuation processes of the Group

The  investment  property,  “Wall  Street  Plaza”,  is  a  commercial  property  located  at  88,  Pine  Street,  New  York,  USA.  The 
property is situated on three parcels of freehold land, two of which are wholly owned by the Group. The freehold interest in 
the third parcel, representing approximately 10% of the site, is 50% owned by the Group and under a long-term lease to the 
Group expiring in the year 2066.

Valuation processes of the Group

The Group’s investment property was valued at 31st December 2015 by an independent professionally qualified valuer who 
holds  a  recognised  relevant  professional  qualification.  The  Group’s  finance  department  reviews  the  valuation  performed  by 
the  independent  valuer  for  financial  reporting  purposes.  This  team  reports  directly  to  the  Chief  Financial  Officer  “CFO”. 
Discussions  of  valuation  processes  and  results  are  held  between  the  CFO,  the  finance  team  and  the  valuer.  As  at  31st 
December 2015, the fair value of the property has been determined by Cushman & Wakefield, Inc.

Valuation techniques

Fair  value  of  the  investment  property  is  derived  by  using  the  discounted  cash  flow  method.  The  net  present  value  of  the 
income stream is estimated by applying an appropriate discount rate which reflects the risk profile.

There were no changes to the valuation techniques during the year.

information about fair value measurement using significant unobservable inputs

Discount  rate  is  estimated  by  Cushman  &  Wakefield,  Inc.  based  on  the  risk  profile  of  the  property  being  valued.  If  the 
discount rate is higher, the fair value would be lower. At 31st December 2015, discount rate of 7.5% per annum (2014: 7.5% 
per annum) is used in the valuation.

Net  operating  income  growth  rates  of  5%  per  annum  (2014:  3%  per  annum)  for  the  second  and  third  years  and  3%  per 
annum  (2014:  3%  per  annum)  for  the  remaining  years  are  used  in  the  valuation.  If  the  growth  rate  is  higher,  the  fair  value 
would be higher.

Prevailing market rents are estimated based on recent lettings of US$38 per sq ft to US$41 per sq ft (2014: US$37 per sq ft to 
US$40 per sq ft), within the subject property. If the rents are higher, the fair value would be higher.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

119

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
18.  prepayments of lease premiums

The Group’s interests in leasehold land and land use rights represent prepaid operating lease payments for leases between 30 
and 50 years and their net book values are analysed as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Amortisation
Disposal of a subsidiary

Balance at end of year

2015

9,109
(416)
(231)
–

8,462

2014

9,543
(29)
(362)
(43)

9,109

Amortisation  of  US$0.2  million  (2014:  US$0.4  million)  is  included  in  “other  operating  expenses”  in  the  consolidated  profit 
and loss account.

19.  Joint ventures

US$’000

Share of net assets

The Group’s share of assets, liabilities and results of the joint ventures are summarised below:

US$’000

Non-current assets
Current assets
Current liabilities

Share of net assets

Income
Expenses

Share of profits of joint ventures

Share of total comprehensive income of joint ventures

Particulars of the joint ventures at 31st December 2015 are shown on page 147.

20.  associated companies

US$’000 

Share of net assets 

2015

8,887

2014

9,011

2015

134
13,516
(4,763)

8,887

14,716
(10,548)

4,168

3,758

2014

55
10,052
(1,096)

9,011

11,325
(6,961)

4,364

4,334

2015 

145,249 

2014 

152,499 

The Group’s share of assets, liabilities and results of the associated companies are summarised as follows:

US$’000

Non-current assets
Current assets
Non-current liabilities
Current liabilities

Share of net assets

Income
Expenses

Share of profits of associated companies

Share of total comprehensive income of associated companies

Particulars of the associated companies at 31st December 2015 are shown on page 146.

120 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

2015

158,688
11,148
(7,916)
(16,671)

145,249

46,571
(32,957)

13,614

4,994

2014

173,767
13,147
(14,623)
(19,792)

152,499

47,746
(32,674)

15,072

14,547

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21.  intangible assets

US$’000

At 1st January 2014
  Cost
  Accumulated amortisation

  Net book amount

Year ended 31st December 2014
  Opening net book amount
  Additions
  Amortisation
  Disposal of a subsidiary

  Closing net book amount

At 31st December 2014
  Cost
  Accumulated amortisation

  Net book amount

Year ended 31st December 2015
  Opening net book amount
  Additions
  Amortisation

  Closing net book amount

at 31st December 2015
  Cost
  Accumulated amortisation

  Net book amount

Computer software
development costs

142,855
(100,192)

42,663

42,663
14,228
(8,310)
(3)

48,578

157,055
(108,477)

48,578

48,578
11,024
(3,956)

55,646

168,079
(112,433)

55,646

Computer software development costs mainly comprise internally generated capitalised software development costs.

Amortisation  of  US$4.0  million  (2014:  US$8.3  million)  is  included  in  “other  operating  expenses”  in  the  consolidated  profit 
and loss account.

22.  Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities)

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets
Deferred taxation liabilities

2015

3,765
(62,041)

(58,276)

2014

3,887 
(53,655)

(49,768)

Deferred  taxation  assets  and  liabilities  are  offset  when  there  is  a  legal  right  to  set  off  current  taxation  assets  with  current 
taxation  liabilities  and  when  the  deferred  taxation  relates  to  the  same  taxation  authority.  The  above  assets/(liabilities) 
shown in the consolidated balance sheet are determined after appropriate offsetting of the relevant amounts and include the 
following:

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets to be recovered after more than twelve months

2015

761

2014

2,121

Deferred taxation liabilities to be settled after more than twelve months

(61,965)

(53,553)

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

121

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22.  Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities) (Continued)

Deferred taxation is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using applicable tax rates prevailing 
in the countries in which the Group operates. The movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities (prior to offsetting of 
balances within the same taxation jurisdiction) during the year were as follows:

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets

At 31st December 2013
Currency translation adjustments
(Charged)/credited to consolidated
  profit and loss account
Charged to other comprehensive income

At 31st December 2014
Currency translation adjustments
(Charged)/credited to consolidated 
  profit and loss account
Charged to other comprehensive income

at 31st December 2015

US$’000

Deferred taxation liabilities

At 31st December 2013
Currency translation adjustments
(Credited)/charged to consolidated 
  profit and loss account

At 31st December 2014
Currency translation adjustments
(Credited)/charged to consolidated 
  profit and loss account

at 31st December 2015

accelerated
accounting
depreciation

pensions

revenue
expenditure

tax
losses

total

15,219
(169)

(2,208)
(115)

12,727
(223)

941
(948)

1,093
18

(43)
–

1,068
(7)

(34) 
–

1,027

1,880
(83)

(232)
(115)

1,450
(69)

(316)
(948)

117

8,339
(62)

562
–

8,839
(58)

45
–

3,907
(42)

(2,495)
–

1,370
(89)

1,246
–

8,826

2,527

 12,497

accelerated
tax
depreciation

revaluation
of investment
property

revenue
expenditure

11,973
2

(4,473)

7,502
–

(1,552)

5,950

49,386
–

4,167

53,553
–

8,350

61,903

5,345
–

(3,905)

1,440
2

1,478

2,920

total

66,704
2

(4,211)

62,495
2

8,276

70,773

Deferred  taxation  assets  of  US$30.8  million  (2014:  US$28.9  million)  arising  from  unused  tax  losses  of  US$123.8  million 
(2014: US$122.2 million) have not been recognised in the consolidated financial statements. Unused tax losses of US$117.4 
million  (2014:  US$107.1  million)  have  no  expiry  date  and  the  remaining  balance  will  expire  at  various  dates  up  to  and 
including 2035.

Deferred taxation liabilities of US$92.2 million (2014: US$31.4 million) on temporary differences associated with investments 
in  subsidiaries  of  US$388.1  million  (2014:  US$180.9  million)  have  not  been  recognised  as  there  is  no  current  intention  of 
remitting the retained profit of these subsidiaries to the holding companies in the foreseeable future.

23.  pension and retirement benefits

The  Group  operates  a  number  of  defined  benefit  and  defined  contribution  pension  and  retirement  schemes  in  the  main 
countries  in  which  the  Group  operates.  The  total  charges  to  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  for  the  year  were 
US$27.8 million (2014: US$27.5 million).

122 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
 
 
23.  pension and retirement benefits (Continued)

Defined contribution schemes

The  principal  defined  contribution  schemes  are  operated  in  Hong  Kong  and  the  USA.  These  schemes  cover  approximately 
79%  of  the  Group’s  employees.  Contributions  to  the  defined  contribution  schemes,  all  the  assets  of  which  are  held  in  trust 
funds  separate  from  the  Group,  are  based  on  a  percentage  of  an  employee’s  salary,  depending  upon  the  length  of  service  of 
the employee, but the Group’s contributions to certain schemes may be reduced by contributions forfeited by those employees 
who leave the schemes prior to vesting fully in those contributions.

In  2008,  the  Group  terminated  the  defined  benefit  scheme  and  post-retirement  medical  plans  in  the  USA  at  the  request  of 
the labour unions. All the pension assets and obligations were transferred to a defined benefit multi-employer pension plan 
and a defined benefit multi-employer post-retirement medical plan (the “Plans”) together with other industry players. Since 
the Group is not able to identify its share of the underlying financial position and performance of the Plans with sufficient 
reliability for accounting purposes, accordingly the Plans are accounted for by the Group as defined contribution plans.

The charges for the defined contribution schemes to the consolidated profit and loss account during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Contributions to the schemes
Forfeitures utilised

Defined benefit schemes

The amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are as follows:

US$’000

Funded scheme assets
Funded scheme liabilities
Unfunded scheme liabilities

Net scheme assets/(liabilities)

Net funded scheme assets/(liabilities)

2015

27,110
(612)

26,498

2014

26,841
(579)

26,262

2015

7,855
–
(109)

7,746

2014
(Restated)

–
(1,409)
(256)

(1,665)

The  principal  defined  benefit  scheme  is  operated  in  the  United  Kingdom  which  was  valued  by  Barnett  Waddingham  LLP. 
The defined benefit scheme (the “Scheme”) cover approximately 1% of the Group’s employees and are funded. The assets of 
the Scheme are held in trust funds separate from the Group. Contributions to the Scheme are assessed in accordance with the 
advice  of  qualified  actuaries  in  compliance  with  local  practice  and  regulations.  The  actuarial  assumptions  used  to  calculate 
the projected benefit obligations of the Group’s pension schemes vary according to the economic conditions of the countries 
in which they are situated.

The net Scheme assets/(liabilities) recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are determined as follows:

US$’000

Fair value of plan assets
Present value of funded obligations

Surplus/(deficit) of funded plan

2015

226,692
(218,837)

2014
(Restated)

252,656
(254,065)

7,855

(1,409)

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

123

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
23.  pension and retirement benefits (Continued)

Defined benefit schemes (Continued)

Net funded scheme assets/(liabilities) (Continued)

Movements in the fair value of the plan assets of the Scheme during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Interest income on plan assets
Remeasurement (losses)/gains on assets
Contributions from the Group
Contributions from the plan members
Benefits paid

Balance at end of year

Movements in the present value of obligations of the Scheme during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Current service cost
Interest expense
Experience gains on liabilities
Gains from changes to demographic assumptions
(Gains)/losses from changes to financial assumptions
Contributions from the plan members
Benefits paid

Balance at end of year

The charges of the Scheme recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account are as follows:

US$’000

Current service cost
Interest expense
Interest income on plan assets

Net expense recognised for the year

2015

252,656
(12,364)
8,245
(11,707)
3,392
89
(13,619)

226,692

2014

244,639
(13,755)
9,929
22,375
3,591
99
(14,222)

252,656

2015

2014
(Restated)

254,065
(12,465)
1,217
8,253
(4,993)
(2,563)
(11,147)
89
(13,619)

218,837

246,739
(13,878)
1,119
9,960
(1,047)
(1,050)
26,345
99
(14,222)

254,065

2015

1,217
8,253
(8,245)

1,225

2014
(Restated)

1,119
9,960
(9,929)

1,150

Charges of US$1.2 million (2014: charges of US$1.2 million) were included in “other operating expenses” in the consolidated 
profit and loss account.

The main actuarial assumptions made for the Scheme were as follows:

Discount rate
Inflation rate
Expected future salary increases
Expected future pension increases

Actual return on plan assets (US$’000)

124 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

2015

3.7%
2.5%
3.0%
2.3%

2014

3.4%
2.6%
3.1%
2.4%

(3,815)

34,232

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements23.  pension and retirement benefits (Continued)

Defined benefit schemes (Continued)

Net funded scheme assets/(liabilities) (Continued)

At 31st December 2015, if discount rate had been 0.2% higher/lower, with all other variables held constant, the fair value of 
the funded obligations would have been US$5.8 million lower/US$6.1 million higher. At 31st December 2015, if inflation rate 
had been 0.1% higher/lower, with all other variables held constant, the fair value of the funded obligations would have been 
US$1.9  million  higher/US$1.7  million  lower.  The  sensitivities  show  the  likely  effect  of  a  single  assumption  being  adjusted 
while holding all other assumptions constant.

Plan assets of the Scheme comprise the following:

US$’000

Equity
Debt
Others

2015

2014

36,709
169,807
20,176

226,692

16%
75%
9%

100%

–
165,243
87,413

252,656

0%
65%
35%

100%

The  current  agreed  contribution  rate  is  29.1%  of  contributory  salaries  and  the  estimated  duration  of  the  Scheme’s  liability 
was 14 years. Expected normal and deficit reduction contributions to the Scheme for the year ending 31st December 2016 is 
US$3.4 million.

Through its defined benefit pension plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks as follows:

• 

• 

• 

Investment risk. The Scheme holds investments in asset classes, such as equities, which have volatile market values and 
while these assets are expected to provide real returns over the long-term, the short-term volatility can cause additional 
funding to be required if deficit emerges.

Interest rate and market risk. The Scheme’s liabilities are assessed using market yields on high quality corporate bonds 
to  discount  the  liabilities.  As  the  Scheme  holds  assets  such  as  equities,  the  value  of  the  assets  and  liabilities  may  not 
move in the same way.

Inflation risk. A significant proportion of the benefits under the Scheme are linked to inflation. Although the Scheme’s 
assets are expected to provide a good hedge against inflation over the long term, movements over the short-term could 
lead to deficits emerging.

• 

Longevity and other demographic risk. If members live longer than assumed a deficit will emerge in the Scheme.

24.  restricted bank balances

US$’000

Non-current
Current

Restricted bank balances

2015

980
443

1,423

2014

54,168
413

54,581

As  at  31st  December  2015,  the  restricted  bank  balances  of  US$1.4  million  (2014:  US$54.6  million)  are  funds  pledged  as 
securities for banking facilities or required to be utilised for specific purposes.

The  carrying  amounts  of  the  Group’s  restricted  bank  balances  are  mainly  denominated  in  New  Taiwan  dollar  (2014:  US 
dollar).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

125

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
24.  restricted bank balances (Continued)

The credit quality of restricted bank balances by reference to Standard & Poor’s, and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

AA
A
BBB

25.  available-for-sale financial assets

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Additions
Disposals
Change in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income

Balance at end of year

Available-for-sale financial assets include the following:

US$’000

Listed equity securities
  Hong Kong
  Overseas

Market value of listed equity securities
Unlisted equity security
Others

2015

392
1,029
2

1,423

2015

139,636
(12)
16,847
(9)
(28,464)

127,998

2014

387
1,027
53,167

54,581

2014

149,667
(6)
32,272
(10)
(42,287)

139,636

2015

2014

75,962
–

75,962
51,300
736

67,395
9

67,404
71,500
732

127,998

139,636

The carrying amounts of the Group’s available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

Renminbi
Hong Kong dollar
Other currencies

26.  Held-to-maturity investments

US$’000

Listed debt securities
  Hong Kong
  Overseas

Less: Current portion included in current assets

Market value

126 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

2015

127,293
562
143

127,998

2014

138,929
546
161

139,636

2015

2014

146,960
89,118

236,078
(19,074)

217,004

245,101

165,997
79,830

245,827
(24,792)

221,035

260,750

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26.  Held-to-maturity investments (Continued)

Movements in held-to-maturity investments are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Additions
Redemptions on maturity
Amortisation
Currency translation adjustments

Balance at end of year

2015

245,827
17,466
(24,806)
(295)
(2,114)

236,078

2014

254,572
2,737
(8,878)
(204)
(2,400)

245,827

The carrying amounts of held-to-maturity investments are mainly denominated in US dollar (2014: US dollar).

The  credit  quality  of  held-to-maturity  investments  by  reference  to  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s  credit  ratings  is  as 
follows:

US$’000

AAA
AA
A
BBB
BB
Non-ranking

2015

9,523
20,186
73,912
71,980
15,895
44,582

2014

9,530
19,367
85,917
77,971
6,206
46,836

236,078

245,827

The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying amount of held-to-maturity investments.

27.  other non-current assets

US$’000

Other deposit
Others

28.  inventories

US$’000

Bunker
Consumable stores

2015

7,788
8,847

16,635

2015

58,374
14,107

72,481

2014

11,825
7,885

19,710

2014

113,990
14,662

128,652

The  cost  of  inventories  recognised  as  expense  and  included  in  “operating  costs”  amounts  to  US$603.2  million  (2014: 
US$1,014.0 million).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

127

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29.  Debtors and prepayments

US$’000

Trade receivables
– Fully performing
– Past due but not impaired
– Impaired and provided for

Less: provision for impairment

Trade receivables – net
Other debtors
Other prepayments
Utility and other deposits

2015

2014

195,897
113,286
9,548

318,731
(9,548)

309,183
80,850
97,002
12,374

226,750
141,228
10,704

378,682
(10,704)

367,978
89,299
106,718
10,522

499,409

574,517

The  credit  quality  of  trade  receivables  net  of  provision  for  impairment,  by  reference  to  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s 
credit ratings (if available) or to historical information about counterparty default rates is as follows:

US$’000

Counterparties with external credit rating
A
BBB
BB

Counterparties without external credit rating
Group 1
Group 2
Group 3

Notes:

Group 1 – new customers (less than 6 months).

Group 2 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with no defaults in the past.

Group 3 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with some defaults in the past.

2015

2014

20,028
8,830
4,604

33,462

13,032
262,633
56

18,592
15,026
4,852

38,470

16,851
312,154
503

275,721

329,508

309,183

367,978

128 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
29.  Debtors and prepayments (Continued)

Trade  receivables  are  normally  due  for  payment  on  presentation  of  invoices  or  granted  with  an  approved  credit  period 
ranging mainly from 10 to 30 days. Debtors with overdue balances are requested to settle all outstanding balances before any 
further credit is granted.

The majority of past due but not impaired trade receivables are less than three months old. The ageing analysis of the Group’s 
trade receivables, net of provision for impairment, prepared in accordance with the due dates of invoices, is as follows:

US$’000

Below one month
Two to three months
Four to six months
Over six months

2015

276,684
25,900
4,673
1,926

309,183

2014

329,896
27,954
8,506
1,622

367,978

There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a large number of internationally 
dispersed customers. Other debtors are fully performing.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Canadian dollar
Euro
Japanese yen
Hong Kong dollar
Renminbi
Pound sterling
Australian dollar
Other currencies

Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Provision
Write off
Reversal

Balance at end of year

2015

108,639
14,954
40,433
15,465
5,548
44,308
9,971
19,488
50,377

309,183

2015

10,704
1,581
(1,823)
(914)

9,548

2014

128,368
15,720
52,902
13,055
6,703
53,034
16,492
21,927
59,777

367,978

2014

7,850
3,516
(617)
(45)

10,704

The provision for impairment has been included in “other operating expenses” in the consolidated profit and loss account.

30.  amounts due from joint ventures

The amounts receivable are unsecured, interest free and have no specific repayment terms.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

129

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
 
 
31.  portfolio investments

US$’000

Listed equity securities
  Hong Kong
  Overseas

Market value of listed equity securities
Unit trust
Listed debt securities
  Hong Kong
  Overseas

2015

2014

37,198
14,667

51,865
9,857

183,417
50,755

295,894

17,297
–

17,297
11,690

149,777
44,659

223,423

The carrying amounts of the Group’s portfolio investments are mainly denominated in US dollar (2014: US dollar).

The credit quality of listed debt securities by reference to Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

AA
A
BBB
BB
Non-ranking

2015

4,752
30,063
103,665
12,479
83,213

234,172

2014

–
24,286
91,999
–
78,151

194,436

The fair value of all equity securities and debt securities are based on their current bid prices in active markets.

32.  Derivative financial instruments

US$’000

assets
Non-current assets

Interest rate swap contracts

Current asset

Interest rate swap contract

liabilities
Non-current liability
  Foreign exchange forward contract

Current liabilities

Interest rate swap contract

  Foreign exchange forward contract
  Bunker price derivative contracts

130 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

2015

2014

1,507

2,888

147

1,654

–

2,888

–

(2,949)

–
(3,157)
(2,159)

(5,316)

(5,316)

(406)
–
–

(406)

(3,355)

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32.  Derivative financial instruments (Continued)

The  credit  quality  of  derivative  financial  assets  by  reference  to  the  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s  credit  rating  is  as 
follows:

US$’000

AA
A

2015

147
1,507

1,654

2014

377
2,511

2,888

(a)  foreign exchange forward contract

The notional principal amount of the outstanding foreign exchange forward contract at 31st December 2015 was US$4.0 
million (2014: US$5.4 million).

(b)  interest rate swap contracts

The  notional  principal  amounts  of  the  outstanding  interest  rate  swap  contracts  at  31st  December  2015  were  US$30.8 
million (2014: US$92.4 million).

(c)  Bunker price derivative contracts

At  31st  December  2015,  the  Group  had  entered  into  contracts  covering  approximately  5%  of  expected  purchase  of 
bunker for the next year through bunker price derivative contracts.

33.  Cash and bank balances

US$’000

Short-term bank deposits
  – Maturing within three months from the date of placement
Cash at bank and in hand

Short-term bank deposits
  – Maturing more than three months from the date of placement

2015

2014

1,252,796
484,729

1,336,547
606,276

1,737,525

1,942,823

278,056

223,091

2,015,581

2,165,914

The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash and bank balances are mainly denominated in US dollar (2014: US dollar).

The credit quality of cash at bank and in hand and short-term bank deposits by reference to Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and/
or Fitch’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

AA
A
BBB
BB
B
Others

2015

614,930
950,358
440,703
4,100
1,561
3,929

2014

696,866
1,248,470
206,074
9,835
1,492
3,177

2,015,581

2,165,914

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

131

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
 
 
34.  Share capital

US$’000

Authorised:
  900,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.10 each
  65,000,000 convertible redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each
  50,000,000 redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each

Issued and fully paid:
  At 31st December 2014 and 2015

35.  reserves

2015

2014

90,000
65,000
50,000

90,000
65,000
50,000

205,000

205,000

Number 
of shares
(thousands)

ordinary 
shares
US$’000

625,793

62,579

US$’000

Balance at 31st December 2013
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 

for the year

Transactions with owners
  2013 final dividend
  2014 interim dividend

Balance at 31st December 2014
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 

for the year

Transactions with owners
  2014 final dividend
  2015 interim dividend

Share
premium

Contributed
surplus

Capital
redemption
reserve

available-for-sale
financial assets
revaluation reserve

foreign
exchange
translation
reserve

retained
profit

total

172,457

88,547

4,696

111,661

64,934

3,965,933

4,408,228

–

–
–

–

–
–

–

–
–

(42,287)

(3,534)

268,550

222,729

–
–

–
–

(11,795)
(46,989)

(11,795)
(46,989)

172,457

88,547

4,696

69,374

61,400

4,175,699

4,572,173

–

–
–

–

–
–

–

–
–

(28,464)

(17,098)

289,899

244,337

–
–

–
–

(21,400)
(60,179)

(21,400)
(60,179)

Balance at 31st December 2015

172,457

88,547

4,696

40,910

44,302

4,384,019

4,734,931

132 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
36.  Borrowings

US$’000

Non-current
Bank loans
– Secured
– Unsecured
Finance lease obligations

Current
Bank overdrafts, unsecured
Bank loans
– Secured
– Unsecured
Finance lease obligations

Total borrowings

The maturity of borrowings is as follows:

US$’000

As at 31st December 2015
  2016
  2017
  2018
  2019
  2020
  2021 onwards

As at 31st December 2014
  2015
  2016
  2017
  2018
  2019
  2020 onwards

2015

2014

1,748,392
233,169
1,681,539

2,015,399
100,447
1,479,779

3,663,100

3,595,625

14

1

297,808
14,559
126,238

438,619

256,389
–
132,487

388,877

4,101,719

3,984,502

finance leases

Bank
loans

Bank
overdrafts

present
value

Minimum
payments

312,367
314,405
337,031
240,147
371,843
718,135

2,293,928

256,389
244,081
243,981
260,028
376,690
991,066

2,372,235

14
–
–
–
–
–

14

1
–
–
–
–
–

1

126,238
324,022
264,481
120,806
159,606
812,624

153,382
362,361
285,452
138,001
181,414
926,044

1,807,777

2,046,654

132,487
176,745
297,488
237,502
93,274
674,770

151,733
194,592
322,366
251,331
104,493
764,534

1,612,266

1,789,049

Borrowings are secured by property, plant and equipment of the Group (note 16(a)).

The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows:

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations

2015

US$

1.9%
2.1%

£

–
0.7%

2014

US$

1.6%
1.4%

£

–
0.7%

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

133

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
 
36.  Borrowings (Continued)

The carrying amounts and fair values of the non-current borrowings are as follows:

US$’000

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations

Carrying amounts

fair values

2015

1,981,561
1,681,539

2014

2,115,846
1,479,779

2015

1,981,774
1,691,993

2014

2,116,610
1,489,738

3,663,100

3,595,625

3,673,767

3,606,348

The fair values are based on cash flows discounted using rates based on the borrowing rates ranging from 2.0% to 3.7% (2014: 
2.1% to 4.0%).

The carrying amounts of short-term borrowings approximate their fair values.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Pound sterling

2015

4,089,372
12,347

2014

3,966,862
17,640

4,101,719

3,984,502

The  fixed  interest  rate  borrowings  of  the  Group  as  at  31st  December  2015  amounted  to  US$389.4  million  (2014:  US$278.9 
million). The remaining borrowings of US$3,712.3 million (2014: US$3,705.6 million) were subject to floating interest rates.

37.  Creditors and accruals

US$’000

Trade payables
Other creditors
Accrued expenses
Deferred revenue

2015

193,401
108,928
377,630
70,419

750,378

The ageing analysis of the Group’s trade payables, prepared in accordance with the dates of invoices, is as follows:

US$’000

Below one month
Two to three months
Four to six months
Over six months

2015

129,801
50,395
7,799
5,406

193,401

2014

238,149
114,675
509,265
80,615

942,704

2014

162,147
58,567
7,929
9,506

238,149

134 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
 
 
37.  Creditors and accruals (Continued)

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade payables are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Canadian dollar
Euro
Japanese yen
Hong Kong dollar
Renminbi
Other currencies

38.  amounts due to joint ventures

The amounts payable are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.

39.  Commitments

(a)  Capital commitments – property, plant and equipment

US$’000

Contracted but not provided for

(b)  operating lease commitments

2015

91,001
10,307
18,499
21,280
14,602
21,373
16,339

193,401

2014

120,246
10,100
20,118
19,694
17,182
21,170
29,639

238,149

2015

778,885

2014

528,983

The future aggregate minimum lease rental expenses under non-cancellable operating leases are payable in the following 
years:

US$’000

At 31st December 2015
  2016
  2017
  2018
  2019
  2020
  2021 onwards

At 31st December 2014
  2015
  2016
  2017
  2018
  2019
  2020 onwards

Vessels and
equipment

land and
buildings

194,705
126,409
89,334
67,212
64,755
69,759

612,174

189,333
110,329
100,080
70,455
54,921
143,044

668,162

34,708
26,150
15,441
12,955
11,089
36,548

136,891

28,826
24,262
16,563
6,856
4,913
14,436

95,856

total

229,413
152,559
104,775
80,167
75,844
106,307

749,065

218,159
134,591
116,643
77,311
59,834
157,480

764,018

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

135

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
39.  Commitments (Continued)

(b)  operating lease commitments (Continued)

The  Group  entered  into  the  Preferential  Assignment  Agreement  (the  “Agreement”)  with  the  City  of  Long  Beach 
(“COLB”)  for  the  use  of  the  Middle  Harbor  Terminal  (the  “Terminal”)  in  Long  Beach,  California  USA  on  30th  April 
2012. The term of the Agreement is 40 years commencing on 1st of July 2011. On 27th March 2013, the Group signed 
the  First  Amendment  to  Preferential  Assignment  Agreement  (the  “Amendment”)  with  COLB,  which  has  amended 
certain  terms  within  the  Agreement  and  has  altered  the  expected  guaranteed  minimum  annual  compensation  to  be 
made for the relevant period of the lease term.

The guaranteed minimum annual compensation is computed based on the guaranteed minimum annual compensation 
per  acreage  (ranging  from  US$180,000  to  US$270,000  in  the  first  5  years  of  the  lease)  multiplied  by  the  number 
of  acreages  of  the  Terminal  delivered,  which  is  subject  to  mutual  agreement  between  the  Group  and  COLB  along 
the  Terminal  construction  and  based  on  the  milestones  set  out  in  the  Agreement.  The  construction  is  expected  to 
be  completed  by  2020  and  the  estimated  number  of  acreages  of  the  Terminal  upon  completion  is  estimated  to  be 
approximately  304.7  acreages.  As  of  31st  December  2015,  the  acreages  of  the  Terminal  available  is  98.8  acreages.  The 
Group and COLB will renegotiate the guaranteed minimum annual compensation per acre every 5 years which will not 
be less than the highest guaranteed minimum annual compensation in the previous 5 years.

(c)  operating lease rental receivable

The  future  aggregate  minimum  lease  rental  income  under  non-cancellable  operating  leases  are  receivable  in  the 
following years:

US$’000

As at 31st December 2015
  2016
  2017
  2018
  2019
  2020
  2021 onwards

As at 31st December 2014
  2015
  2016
  2017
  2018
  2019
  2020 onwards

Vessels and
equipment

land and
buildings

45,485
–
–
–
–
–

45,485

80,526
45,485
–
–
–
–

25,983
25,119
19,174
16,138
13,531
31,184

23,613
22,448
21,394
15,511
12,805
26,626

total

71,468
25,119
19,174
16,138
13,531
31,184

104,139
67,933
21,394
15,511
12,805
26,626

248,408

131,129

176,614

40.  financial guarantees

The Group has not given any corporate guarantee as at 31st December 2015 (2014: nil).

126,011

122,397

136 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements41.  Notes to consolidated cash flow statement

(a)  Major non-cash transactions

During  the  year,  major  non-cash  transactions  included  the  inception  of  finance  leases  of  US$412.6  million  (2014: 
US$465.5  million)  and  non-cash  dividend  received  from  available-for-sale  financial  assets  of  US$16.8  million  (2014: 
US$32.3 million).

(b)  analysis of cash and cash equivalents

US$’000 

Bank balances and deposits maturing within  three months 

from the date of placement 

Bank overdrafts 

42.  Company balance sheet

as at 31st December 2015

US$’000

aSSetS
Non-current assets
Subsidiaries

Current assets
Prepayments
Amounts due from subsidiaries
Restricted bank balances
Cash and bank balances

total assets

eQUitY
equity holders
Share capital
Reserves (note)

total equity

liaBilitieS
Non-current liability
Amount due to a subsidiary

Current liabilities
Derivative financial instrument
Accruals
Amounts due to subsidiaries

total liabilities

total equity and liabilities

C C tung
alan tung
Directors

2015 

2014 

 1,737,525 
(14)

 1,942,823 
 (1)

 1,737,511 

 1,942,822 

2015

2014

169,487

169,487 

47
2,087,922
356
23,339

103 
2,175,071 
344 
11,661 

2,111,664

2,187,179 

2,281,151

2,356,666 

62,579
1,004,295

62,579 
977,990 

1,066,874

1,040,569 

943,229

1,053,229 

943,229

1,053,229 

–
1,320
269,728

271,048

406 
1,376 
261,086 

262,868 

1,214,277

1,316,097 

2,281,151

2,356,666 

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

137

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42.  Company balance sheet (Continued)

Note: 

Movement of reserves

US$’000

Balance at 31st December 2013

Total comprehensive income for the year

Transactions with owners

  2013 final dividend

  2014 interim dividend

Balance at 31st December 2014

Total comprehensive income for the year

Transactions with owners

  2014 final dividend

  2015 interim dividend

Share

Contributed

redemption

retained

Capital

premium

surplus

reserve

172,457

88,547

4,696

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

172,457

88,547

4,696

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

profit

691,362

79,712

(11,795)

(46,989)

712,290

107,884

(21,400)

(60,179)

total 

957,062 

79,712 

(11,795)

(46,989)

977,990 

107,884 

(21,400)

(60,179)

Balance at 31st December 2015

172,457

88,547

4,696

738,595

1,004,295 

Under  the  Companies  Act  of  Bermuda  and  the  Bye-laws  of  the  Company,  the  contributed  surplus  is  also  distributable. 
Accordingly,  total  distributable  reserves  of  the  Company  amount  to  US$827.1  million  as  at  31st  December  2015  (2014: 
US$800.8 million).

43.  Comparative figures

Certain comparative figures in note 16 and 23 had been adjusted to conform with current year’s presentation.

44.  approval of financial statements

The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 4th March 2016.

138 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Notes to the Consolidated Financial StatementsName of Company

Subsidiaries
Cargo System Warehouse and 
  Transport Ltd.

Consolidated Leasing &
  Terminals, Inc.

Containers No. 1 Inc.

Containers No. 2 Inc.

effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

100

100

100

100

3,000 ordinary shares 
HK$300,000

Investment holding and 
container transportation

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

1 common stock
US$100

Investment holding,
equipment owning
and leasing

USA

USA

10,000 ordinary shares
US$100,000

Equipment owning
and leasing

Marshall Islands Worldwide

10,000 ordinary shares
US$100,000

Equipment owning
and leasing

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Dongguan Orient Container Co. Ltd.

100

Far Gain Investment Ltd.

Glory Top Investment Ltd.

Goodrich Limited

100

100

100

Hai Dong Transportation Co. Ltd.

100

Kenwake Ltd.

Laronda Company Ltd.

LBCT LLC

100
100

100

100

Long Beach Container Terminal, Inc.

100

Loyalton Shipping Limited

Maritime Delivery Services Inc.

100

100

Newcontainer 1565A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1585A Shipping Inc.

100

Registered capital
HK$29,000,000

10,000 ordinary shares
HK$10,000

10,000 ordinary shares
HK$10,000

Container depot

China *

China

Investment holding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Portfolio investment

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Commodity instruments for 
Group

Marshall Islands

Marshall Islands

100,000 ordinary shares
HK$100,000

1,600,000 ordinary shares
520,000 5% cumulative
preference shares
£2,120,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Capital of
US$500,000

5,000 common stock
US$500,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

1,000 common stock
US$10,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Container transport

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Investment holding

United
Kingdom

United
Kingdom

Portfolio investment

British Virgin
Islands

Worldwide

Terminal operating

USA

Maintenance of union office 
workers and provision of 
labour services

USA

USA

USA

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Trucking service

USA

USA

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

139

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures as at 31st December 2015effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Newcontainer 1667A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1668A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2002 Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer 2004 Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer 2010 Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer 2011 Shipping Inc.

100

100

100

100

Newcontainer No. 5 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 6 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 9

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 10

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 15

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 31

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 32

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 51

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 52

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 53

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 56

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 66

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

140 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Liberia †

Worldwide

Ship owning

Liberia †

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures as at 31st December 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)
Newcontainer No. 67

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 68

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 69

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 70

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 73

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 75

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 78

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 80

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 81

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 82

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 83

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 85

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 86

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 93

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 95

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 96

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 97

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 98

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

141

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures as at 31st December 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)
Newcontainer No. 99

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 100

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 101

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 102

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 103

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

100

100

100

100

100

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

OLL Logistics (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

100

10,000 ordinary shares
RM10,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Malaysia

Malaysia

OOCL (Agencies) Ltd.

OOCL (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

OOCL (Assets) Holdings Inc.

100

100

100

OOCL (Assets USA) Holdings Inc.

100

OOCL (Australia) Pty Ltd.

OOCL BENELUX

OOCL (Cambodia) Ltd.

OOCL (Canada) Inc.

OOCL (China) Investment Ltd.

100

100

100

100

100

OOCL (Corporate Services) Limited

100

200 ordinary shares
US$20,000

2 ordinary shares
HK$2

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

50,000 ordinary shares
US$50,000

200,000 ordinary shares
A$200,000

226,271 ordinary shares
€609,799

50,000 ordinary shares
Riel200,000,000

10,000 common stock
C$91,000

2 ordinary shares
HK$2

2 ordinary shares
HK$2

OOCL (Denmark) A/S

OOCL (Europe) Ltd.

100

100

1,000 ordinary shares
DKK500,000

5,000,000 ordinary shares
£5,000,000

Investment holding

Bermuda

Worldwide

Transportation

Hong Kong

Asia Pacific

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Investment holding

Liberia †

USA

Liner agency

Australia

Australia

Liner agency

Belgium

Belgium

Liner agency

Cambodia

Cambodia

Liner agency

Canada

Canada

Investment holding

Hong Kong

China

Provision of corporate  
services

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Liner agency

Denmark

Northern Europe

Container transport, 
investment holding and liner 
territorial office

United
Kingdom

Worldwide

142 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures as at 31st December 2015 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

OOCL (Finland) Ltd. Oy

OOCL (France) SA

OOCL (India) Private Ltd.

OOCL (Infotech) Holdings Ltd.

OOCL (Ireland) Ltd.

OOCL (Italy) S.r.l.

OOCL (Korea) Ltd.

OOCL (Liners) Holdings Ltd.

OOCL (Logistics) Holdings Ltd.

OOCL (New Zealand) Ltd.

OOCL Pakistan (Private) Ltd.

OOCL (Philippines) Inc.

OOCL (Poland) Ltd sp. z o.o.

OOCL (Portugal), Lda

OOCL (Russia) Ltd.

OOCL (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

OOCL (Sweden) AB

OOCL (Switzerland) AG

effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

150 ordinary shares
€2,522.82

60,000 ordinary shares
€914,694.10

1,000 equity shares
Rupees100,000

2 ordinary shares
US$2

100 ordinary shares
€125

1 quota
€10,000

16,000 common stock
Won160,000,000

2 ordinary shares
HK$2

10,000 ordinary shares
US$10,000

100 ordinary shares
NZD1,000

1,350,000 ordinary shares
PKR13,500,000

55,000 common stock
Peso5,500,000

1,000 ordinary shares
PLN50,000

2 quotas
€25,000

1 participatory share
Rub10,000

100,000 ordinary shares
S$100,000

100,000 ordinary shares
SEK100,000

200,000 ordinary shares
CHF200,000

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

Liner agency

Finland

Finland

Liner agency

France

France

Liner agency

India

India

Investment holding

British Virgin
Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

Ireland

Ireland

Liner agency

Italy

Italy

Liner agency

Korea

Korea

Investment holding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Investment holding

British Virgin
Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

New Zealand

New Zealand

Liner agency

Pakistan

Pakistan

Liner agency

Philippines

Philippines

Liner agency

Poland

Poland

Liner agency

Portugal

Portugal

Liner agency

Russia

Russia

Liner agency

Singapore

Singapore

Liner agency

Sweden

Sweden

Liner agency

Switzerland

Switzerland

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

143

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures as at 31st December 2015Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

OOCL (Taiwan) Co. Ltd.

effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

100

10,000,000 ordinary shares
NT$100,000,000

Liner agency

Taiwan

Taiwan

OOCL (Terminals) Investment Ltd.

100

OOCL (USA) Inc.

OOCL (Vietnam) Co. Ltd.

OOCL China Domestics Ltd.

OOCL LLC

OOCL Logistics Limited

100

100

100

100

100

OOCL Logistics (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

100

500 ordinary shares
US$500

1,030 common stock
US$1,030

Legal capital
US$500,000

Investment holding

British Virgin
Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

USA

USA

Liner agency

Vietnam

Vietnam

Registered capital
RMB21,250,000

Freight agency and
cargo consolidation

China ±

China

Capital of
US$500,000

10,000 ordinary shares
US$10,000

200 ordinary shares
US$20,000

Investment holding and 
equipment owning

Investment holding

Investment holding, 
management of international 
transportation and logistics

USA

USA

British Virgin 
Islands

Hong Kong

Bermuda

Asia Pacific

OOCL Logistics (Australia) Pty. Limited

100

200,000 ordinary shares
A$200,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding

Australia

Australia

OOCL Logistics (Cambodia) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (Canada) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (China) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (Europe) Ltd.

100

100

100

100

1,250 ordinary shares
Riel5,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding

Cambodia

Cambodia

1,000 common stock
C$1,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding

Canada

Canada

Registered capital
US$4,840,000

2 ordinary shares
£2

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding

China *

China

Logistics, cargo consolidation,
forwarding and
logistics territorial office

United
Kingdom

Europe

OOCL Logistics (Hong Kong) Ltd.

100

50,000 ordinary shares
HK$500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

OOCL Logistics (India) Private Ltd.

100

35,000 equity shares
Rupee3,500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding

India

India

OOCL Logistics (Japan) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (Korea) Ltd.

100

100

200 ordinary shares
Yen10,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding

Japan

Japan

30,000 common stock
Won300,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding

Korea

Korea

144 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures as at 31st December 2015Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

OOCL Logistics Mexico, S.A. de CV

effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

100
100

10 minimum fixed capital shares
499,990 variable capital shares
Peso500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding

Mexico

Mexico

OOCL Logistics Pakistan (Pvt) Limited

100

1,300,000 ordinary shares
PKR13,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding

Pakistan

Pakistan

OOCL Logistics (Russia) Limited

100

1 share
Rub10,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding

Russia

Russia

OOCL Logistics (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

100

2 ordinary shares
S$2

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding

Singapore

Singapore

OOCL Logistics (Taiwan) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (USA) Inc.

OOCL Logistics Line Limited

OOCL Logistics Warehousing and
  Transportation (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.

OOCL Logistics Warehousing and
  Transportation (Tianjin) Co. Ltd.

#  OOCL Transport & Logistics
   Holdings Ltd.

100

100

100

100

100

100

OOCL Warehousing (Shanghai) Limited

100

# OOIL (Investments) Inc.

Orient Overseas Associates

Orient Overseas Building Corp.

Orient Overseas Container Line

(China) Co. Ltd.

Orient Overseas Container Line

(Europe) Ltd.

Orient Overseas Container Line

(Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

Orient Overseas Container Line

(Spain), S.L.

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

4,250,000 ordinary shares
NT$42,500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding

Taiwan

Taiwan

100 common stock
US$200

2 ordinary shares
HK$2

Registered capital
US$1,000,000

Registered capital
US$4,700,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation,
forwarding and
investment holding

USA

Worldwide

Ocean freight forwarding

Hong Kong

Worldwide

Warehousing and logistics 
services

China *

China

Warehousing, transportation 
and logistics services

China *

China

169,477,152 ordinary shares
US$169,477,152

Investment holding

Bermuda

Worldwide

Registered capital
US$10,000,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Warehousing, forwarding and 
depot services

China *

China

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Limited partnership

Property owning

Property owning

USA

USA

USA

USA

Liner agency

China *

China

10 common stock
US$150,000

Registered capital
US$3,400,000

66,000,000 ordinary shares
£66,000,000

Investment holding

United
Kingdom

United
Kingdom

500,000 ordinary shares
RM500,000

3,100 ordinary shares
€3,100

Liner agency

Malaysia

Malaysia

Liner agency

Spain

Spain

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

145

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures as at 31st December 2015 
 
 
 
Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Orient Overseas Container

  Line (UK) Ltd.

effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

100

5,000 ordinary shares

Container transport and

US$5,000

ship management

Cayman

Islands

Worldwide

Orient Overseas Container Line Inc.

100

500 ordinary shares

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

US$25,000,000

Orient Overseas Container Line Ltd.

100

10,000 ordinary shares

Container transport

Hong Kong

Worldwide

HK$1,000,000

Planet Era Limited

100

5,000 ordinary shares

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

US$5,000

Soberry Investments Ltd.

100

5,000 ordinary shares

Portfolio investment

British Virgin

Worldwide

US$5,000

Islands

Union Faith (H.K.) Limited

100

1 ordinary share

Ship owning

Hong Kong

Worldwide

HK$1

Wall Street Plaza, Inc.

100

100

100

40 class A common stock

Investment holding

USA

USA

160 class B common stock

20,000 12% series A

non-cumulative

non-voting preferred stock

100

18,000 11% series B

non-cumulative

non-voting preferred stock

100

19,500 12% series C

non-cumulative

non-voting preferred stock

100

19,000 12% series D

non-cumulative

non-voting preferred stock

US$76,500,200

Wealth Capital Corporation

100

500 ordinary shares

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

associated companies

Ningbo Yuan Dong Terminal Co. Ltd.

20

Tianjin Port Alliance International

20

  Container Terminal Co. Ltd.

US$5,000

Registered capital

RMB2,500,000,000

Registered capital

US$160,000,000

Terminal operating

China §

China

Terminal operating

China §

China

146 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures as at 31st December 2015effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

Name of Company

Joint ventures

OOCL (Egypt) Shipping Agency S.A.E.

49

7,500 ordinary shares

Liner agency

Egypt

Egypt

EGP750,000

OOCL (UAE) LLC

Qingdao Orient International

  Container Storage &

  Transportation Co. Ltd.

49

59

300 ordinary shares

Liner agency

Dubai

Dubai

AED300,000

Registered capital

RMB69,900,000

Container depot

China §

China

# 

† 

* 

§ 

± 

Direct subsidiaries of the Company.

Companies incorporated in Liberia but redomiciled to the Marshall Islands.

Wholly foreign-owned enterprise.

Sino-foreign equity joint venture enterprise.

Domestic joint venture enterprise.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

147

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures as at 31st December 2015fleet

The following table sets out the Group’s vessels as at 31st December 2015.

VeSSel NaMe

NYK Hercules
NYK Hermes
NYK Hyperion
OOCL America
OOCL Atlanta
OOCL Australia
OOCL Bangkok
OOCL Beijing
OOCL Belgium
OOCL California
OOCL Canada
OOCL Charleston
OOCL Chicago
OOCL Chongqing
OOCL Dalian
OOCL Guangzhou
OOCL Le Havre
OOCL London
OOCL Luxembourg
OOCL Memphis
OOCL Miami
OOCL Montreal
OOCL Nagoya
OOCL New York
OOCL Norfolk
OOCL Rotterdam
OOCL San Francisco
OOCL Seoul
OOCL Shanghai
OOCL Washington
OOCL Zhoushan
NYK Helios
OOCL Asia
OOCL Berlin
OOCL Brisbane
OOCL Brussels
OOCL Busan
OOCL Europe
OOCL Gernoa
OOCL Hamburg
OOCL Ho Chi Minh City
OOCL Houston
OOCL Jakarta

teU 
CapaCitY

oWNerSHip

SerViCe iN 
WHiCH USeD

Date 
plaCeD iN 
SerViCe

13,208
13,208
13,208
5,344
8,063
4,583
13,208
8,888
2,808
5,344
8,888
4,578
5,714
13,208
4,578
4,578
4,578
8,063
8,063
8,888
8,888
4,402
4,578
5,770
4,578
8,063
5,714
8,063
5,770
8,063
4,583
13,208
8,063
13,208
4,578
13,208
4,578
8,063
8,888
8,063
8,888
4,578
4,578

Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease

N/A
N/A
N/A
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia-New Zealand
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
N/A
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia

2013
2013
2013
1995
2005
2006
2013
2011
1998
1995
2011
2010
2000
2013
2009
2010
2010
2010
2010
2013
2013
2003
2009
1999
2009
2004
2000
2010
1999
2010
2006
2013
2006
2013
2009
2013
2008
2006
2015
2004
2015
2007
2010

flaG

Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong

148 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Fleet and Container InformationVeSSel NaMe

OOCL Kobe
OOCL Korea
OOCL New Zealand
OOCL Panama
OOCL Savannah
OOCL Singapore
OOCL Southampton
OOCL Taipei
OOCL Texas
OOCL Tokyo
OOCL Utah
OOCL Yokohama
Acrux N
Alidra
Allise P
Arica
Ava D
Ballenita
Balsa
Bardu
BC San Francisco
Bindi Ipsa
Conmar Bay
Euro Max
Hammonia Calabria
Hammonia Toscana
Herma P
Hermes
HS Wagner
Ikaria
Kaethe P
Kuo Hung
Melchior Schulte
Navi Baltic
Nordviolet
OOCL Antwerp
OOCL Dubai
OOCL Halifax
OOCL Istanbul 

(ex. ZIM Kingston)

OOCL Italy
OOCL Kaohsiung
OOCL Kuala Lumpur
OOCL Long Beach
OOCL Mexico

teU 
CapaCitY

oWNerSHip

SerViCe iN 
WHiCH USeD

Date 
plaCeD iN 
SerViCe

4,578
13,208
4,578
4,578
4,578
13,208
8,063
8,888
4,578
8,063
8,888
4,578
1,740
1,644
5,044
2,872
1,578
2,542
2,542
2,546
1,114
1,815
1,036
2,732
4,395
4,957
5,044
2,510
3,534
5,908
5,044
1,295
2,345
1,421
1,756
5,888
5,888
4,992
4,253

5,888
5,888
5,888
8,063 
4,992 

Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Asia-Australia-New Zealand
Asia-Europe
Trans-Atlantic
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia-New Zealand
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe

Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic

2007
2014
2009
2008
2010
2014
2007
2015
2008
2007
2015
2007
2015
2015
2014
2015
2015
2015
2015
2015
2015
2015
2015
2015
2015
2015
2014
2014
2015
2015
2014
2014
2015
2013
2015
2006
2006
2014
2013

2007
2006
2007
2003
2014

flaG

Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Cyprus
Liberia
Liberia
Liberia
Liberia
Marshall Islands
Marshall Islands
Marshall Islands
Antigua and Barbuda
Marshall Islands
Antigua and Barbuda
Liberia
Portugal
Liberia
Liberia
Antigua and Barbuda
Liberia
Liberia
Liberia
Panama
Singapore
Cyprus
Malta
Panama
Singapore
United Kingdom
Malta

Singapore
Singapore
Singapore
Hong Kong
Liberia

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

149

Fleet and Container Information 
VeSSel NaMe

OOCL Ningbo
OOCL Novorossiysk 
(ex. ZIM Dalian)

OOCL Oakland
OOCL Qingdao
OOCL Rauma (ex. Elysee)
OOCL Shenzhen
OOCL Taichung 

(ex. Sinar Batam)

OOCL Tianjin
OOCL Vancouver
Perla
Rio Blackwater
SFL Avon
Spirit of Bangkok
St. John
Sydney Trader
Teng Yun He
Warnow Chief
Warnow Mate
Wieland
YM Efficiency
total 107 VeSSelS

teU 
CapaCitY

oWNerSHip

8,063
4,253

5,888
8,063
1,440
8,063
1,560

8,063
5,888
1,118
5,551
1,740
1,620
1,708
5,047
1,702
1,500
1,500
4,957
4,218
614,253

Chartered
Chartered

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

SerViCe iN 
WHiCH USeD

Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe

Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia

Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific

Date 
plaCeD iN 
SerViCe

2004
2013

2007
2004
2012
2003
2008

2014
2006
2012
2015
2015
2013
2015
2015
2009
2015
2014
2015
2014

flaG

Hong Kong
Malta

Panama
Hong Kong
The Netherlands
Hong Kong
Hong Kong

Hong Kong
Panama
Marshall Islands
Liberia
Marshall Islands
Marshall Islands
Malta
Malta
China
Cyprus
Cyprus
Portugal
Liberia

Container information

The Group owned, purchased on finance lease terms or leased under operating lease agreements 599,137 units (967,015 TEU) as 
of 31st December 2015. Approximately 83.1% of the container fleet in TEU capacity was owned or purchased under finance leases 
with the remainder leased under operating lease agreements.

In  addition,  at  31st  December  2015  the  Group  owned,  purchased  on  finance  lease  terms  or  leased  under  operating  lease 
agreements 37 trailer chassis.

150 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Fleet and Container Information 
 
US$’000

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Consolidated profit and loss Data
Revenue
Operating profit/(loss)
Finance costs
Profit/(loss) before taxation
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing 
  operations
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued 
  operations
Profit/(loss) for the year
Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary 

shareholders
Per Ordinary Share
  Earnings/(loss) (US cents)

from continuing operations
from discontinued operations

  Dividends (US cents)
Weighted average number of 
  ordinary shares in issue (’000)

Consolidated Balance Sheet Data
Property, plant and equipment
Liquid assets
Assets held for sale
Liabilities directly associated with assets 
  classified as held for sale
Other net current (liabilities)/assets
Total assets
Long-term debt
Total long and short-term debt
Net debt/(liquid assets)
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

other financial information
Depreciation
Capital expenditure

Consolidated financial ratios/percentages
Debt to equity ratio
Net debt/(cash) to equity ratio
Return/(loss) on average ordinary

shareholders’ equity (%)

Accounts payable as a % of revenue
Accounts receivable as a % of revenue
Net asset value per ordinary share (US$)

4,609,751
621,364
(71,721)
553,218

5,651,030
687,437
(99,078)
592,024

6,530,855
397,764
(81,016)
322,546

4,350,195
(332,237)
(35,347)
(361,870)

6,033,402
918,807
(29,091)
898,776

6,011,836
174,598
(26,179)
162,457

6,459,059
327,904
(32,877)
310,134

6,231,583
90,314
(41,019)
66,999

6,521,589
329,147
(54,000)
294,583

5,953,444
353,068
(63,642)
307,208

528,335

553,749

297,569

(376,104)

869,817

139,354

296,317

47,133

270,438

283,851

52,805
581,140

1,994,653
2,548,402

(22,040)
275,529

(24,501) 1,004,554
(400,605) 1,874,371

43,000
182,354

–
296,317

–
47,133

–
270,438

–
283,851

580,603

2,546,979

272,337

(402,294) 1,866,780

181,645

295,387

47,036

270,538

283,851

84.4
8.4
103.00

88.3
318.7
103.00

47.1
(3.6)
11.00

(60.4)
(3.9)
–

137.8
160.5
283.80

22.1
6.9
7.00

47.2
–
11.84

7.5
–
1.88

43.2
–
10.90

45.4
–
11.45

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

2,777,004
1,167,924
406,232

3,350,844
2,244,865
–

3,780,945
2,077,087
–

3,798,048
1,354,387
1,268,254

3,860,367
4,132,897
–

4,205,194
2,413,132
–

4,664,773
2,339,531
–

5,320,251
2,411,085
–

5,608,929
2,689,754
53,047

6,020,744
2,548,976
–

(178,992)
56,348
5,600,003
1,870,890
2,068,798
900,874
2,727,206

–
75,034
7,213,644
1,864,436
2,206,184
(38,681)
4,176,368

–
342,756
7,701,635
2,218,251
2,372,146
295,059
4,387,071

–
(142,406)
(475,304)
(582,807)
9,075,183
7,330,174
2,416,367
2,135,967
2,568,022
2,664,122
1,213,635 (1,468,775)
5,548,446
3,944,684

–
(543,133)
7,711,478
2,233,095
2,672,206
259,074
4,233,468

–
(654,625)
8,231,039
2,325,777
2,881,530
541,999
4,481,815

–
(473,105)
8,990,218
3,265,555
3,533,865
1,122,780
4,470,807

–
(628,393)
9,633,455
3,595,625
3,984,502
1,294,748
4,634,752

–
(628,393)
9,731,574
3,663,100
4,101,719
1,552,743
4,797,510

178,761
633,128

173,988
752,903

181,898
650,568

207,275
380,161

255,010
345,255

242,534
744,603

235,346
784,562

302,884
999,451

323,482
848,769

315,426
796,720

0.76
0.33

23.2
12.2
8.3
4.36

0.53
(0.01)

73.8
13.3
12.3
6.67

0.54
0.07

6.4
12.8
6.7
7.01

0.65
0.31

(9.7)
13.8
8.7
6.30

0.48
(0.26)

39.3
12.6
7.5
8.87

0.63
0.06

3.7
11.8
7.8
6.76

0.64
0.12

6.8
12.1
8.4
7.16

0.79
0.25

1.1
14.5
8.9
7.14

0.86
0.28

5.9
14.5
8.8
7.41

0.85
0.32

6.0
12.6
8.4
7.67

Note:

(1)  The results of discontinued operations prior to 2008 have not been restated or reclassified.

(2)  The accounting policy on HKAS 12 ‘Income taxes’ was changed in 2012 and the figures prior to 2010 have not been restated to reflect this change.

(3)  The accounting policy on HKAS 19 Amendment ‘Employee Benefits’ was changed in 2013 and the figures prior to 2011 have not been restated to 

reflect this change.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
annual report 2015

151

10-Year Financial Summary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
executive Directors

principal registrar

Solicitors

Conyers Dill & Pearman
  Clarendon House
  2 Church Street
  Hamilton HM11
  Bermuda

  and at

  2901 One Exchange Square
  8 Connaught Place
  Central
  Hong Kong

Ince & Co
  Rooms 3801-6, 38th Floor

ICBC Tower, Citibank Plaza

  3 Garden Road, Central
  Hong Kong

Slaughter and May
  47th Floor, Jardine House
  One Connaught Place
  Central
  Hong Kong

auditor

PricewaterhouseCoopers
Certified Public Accountants
  22nd Floor
  Prince’s Building, Central
  Hong Kong

Mr. Tung Chee Chen

(Chairman, President and

  Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan

(Chief Financial Officer)

MUFG Fund Services
(Bermuda) Limited
  The Belvedere Building
  69 Pitts Bay Road
  Pembroke HM08
  Bermuda

Non-executive Director

Branch registrar

Professor Roger King

independent  Non-e xecutive 
Directors

Mr. Simon Murray
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard
Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward
Mr. Kwok King Man Clement

Company Secretary

Ms. Lammy Lee

authorised representatives

Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan
Ms. Lammy Lee

principal office

33rd Floor
Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road, Wanchai
Hong Kong

registered office

Clarendon House
2 Church Street
Hamilton HM11
Bermuda

Computershare Hong Kong Investor
Services Limited
  Shops 1712-1716, 17th Floor
  Hopewell Centre
  183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai
  Hong Kong

listing exchange

The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong
Limited
Stock Code: 316

Website

http://www.ooilgroup.com

Major Bankers

Bank of America, N.A.
Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited
BNP Paribas
Citibank, N.A.
DBS Bank Limited
HSBC Holdings plc
HSH Nordbank
Overseas-Chinese Banking
  Corporation Limited
Standard Chartered Bank
(Hong Kong) Limited

152 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

annual report 2015

Corporate Information 
 
 
 
Orient Overseas (International) Limited
(Incorporated in Bermuda with Limited Liability)

33rd Floor Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong   Telephone: (852) 2833 3838
www.ooilgroup.com

Design and Production by: Toppan Vite Limited

This report is printed on paper in accordance with the standards below

Acid Free     Lignin Free     Dioxin Free     Biodegradable     ISO9001     ISO14001

