(Incorporated in Bermuda with members’ limited liability)
Stock code: 0316.HK

Corporate Profile

Corporate Profile

Corporate Profile

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (“OOIL”),  a  company  with  US$6.9  billion 
in total revenues, has principal business activities in container transport and logistics 
services.  Listed  on  The  Stock  Exchange  of  Hong  Kong,  the  OOIL  Group  has  more 
than 410 offices in over 85 countries/regions.

Orient  Overseas  Container  Line  and  OOCL  are  trade  names  for  transportation 
provided  separately  by  Orient  Overseas  Container  Line  Limited  (“OOCLL”)  and 
OOCL  (Europe)  Limited  respectively  and  both  are  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  of 
OOIL. OOCL is one of the world’s largest integrated international transportation and 
logistics  companies  and  is  an  industry  leader  in  the  use  of  information  technology 
and  e-commerce  to  manage  the  entire  cargo  transport  process.  OOCL’s  modern 
fleet today includes some of the youngest, largest, fuel efficient, and environmentally 
friendly  vessels  carrying  cargo  on  hundreds  of  trade  routes  around  the  world, 
providing a vital link in Global Trade.

2

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Contents

Contents

Contents

1
2
3
12
16
20
26
34
50
57
60

63
89
101
102
108

200

Contents
Financial Highlights
Significant Events – 2019
Chairman’s Statement
Operations Review
Major Customers and Suppliers
Corporate Responsibility
Financial Review
Board of Directors
Senior Management
Shareholder Section
60  Financial Calendar
61  Shareholder Information
Corporate Governance Report
Report of the Directors
Index – Financial Information
Independent Auditor’s Report
Consolidated Financial Statements
108  Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
109  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
110  Consolidated Balance Sheet
112  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
113  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
114  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
190  Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
Other Information
200  Fleet and Container Information
203  10-Year Financial Summary
204  Corporate Information

11

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Financial Highlights

Financial Highlights

US$M
Consolidated Profit and Loss
Revenue
Operating profit
Finance costs
Profit before taxation
Profit from continuing operations
Profit from discontinued operation (excluding profit on disposal of  

Long Beach Container Terminal (“LBCT”))

Profit from operations
Profit on disposal of LBCT
Profit for the year

Consolidated Balance Sheet
Liquid assets
Property, plant and equipment
Right-of-use assets
Total assets
Borrowings and lease liabilities
Total liabilities
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

Consolidated Net Cash Flow
Net cash from operating activities
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities
Net cash used in financing activities
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

Key Ratios
Earnings before interest and tax margin
Gross debt to equity
Net debt to equity
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity  

(excluding profit on disposal of LBCT)

Earnings per ordinary share (US cents)
Earnings per ordinary share (US cents)  
(excluding profit on disposal of LBCT)
Net asset value per ordinary share (US dollar)

2019

6,879
361
(152)
224
154

41
195
1,154
1,349

2,859
3,162
2,831
11,202
3,991
6,275
4,927

660
702
(726)
636

6.5%
0.81
0.23
27.9%

4.0%
215.5

31.2
7.87

9%

6%

3%

0%

-3%

-6%

-9%

US$

10

8

6

4

2

0

-2

US$M

300

200

100

0

-100

-200

-300

2

2018

6,573
263
(143)
134
75

33
108
–
108

2,247
5,880
–
10,054
4,198
5,319
4,735

453
(451)
(298)
(296)

4.7%
0.89
0.41
2.3%

2.3%
17.3

17.3
7.57

Increase/
(decrease) %

5%
37%
6%
67%
104%

26%
80%
N/M
1,147%

27%
(46%)
N/M
11%
(5%)
18%
4%

46%
N/M
144%
N/M

2%
(8%)
(18%)
26%

2%
1,146%

80%
4%

25%

20%

15%

10%

5%

0%

-5%

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

Profit/(loss) from operations (L.H.S.)

Earnings before interest and tax margin (R.H.S.)

Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share (L.H.S.)

Return on Average Ordinary Shareholders’ Equity (R.H.S.)
(excluding profit on disposal of (LBCT))

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
     
     
     
 
     
 
     
Significant Events – 2019

Significant Events – 2019
Significant Events – 2019

JANUARY  1   2     

OOCL  was  proud  to  announce  a  renewed  set  of  industry-leading  products  in  the  third  phase  of  the  OCEAN  Alliance 
product  line  scheduled  to  roll  out  from  April  2019.  The  OCEAN  Alliance  members  also  extended  their  cooperation 
agreement for the duration of ten years, until 31st March, 2027. Since the introduction of the Day One products in 2017, 
the  OCEAN  Alliance  members  had  constantly  set  high  quality  standards  and  maintained  very  competitive  schedule 
reliability levels while offering the most comprehensive network as possible.

OOCL received the “Social Capital Builder Logo Award” 2018 that recognises 
our contributions to building social capital in Hong Kong. This Award program 
was  organised  by  the  Hong  Kong  Productivity  Council  and  the  Community 
Investment and Inclusion Fund set up by Hong Kong SAR Government. It was 
the second time that OOCL received this bi-yearly award.

2

For  the  third  time  in  a  row,  OOCL  received 
a  rating  of  Level  A,  the  highest  ranking 
in  the  BICEPS  (Boosting  Initiatives  for 
Collaborative  Emissions-reduction  with 
the  Power  of  Shippers)  assessment,  for 
our  excellent  sustainability  efforts  and 
performance.  BICEPS  is  a  report  card  used 
by  shippers  in  their  global  procurement 
process  of  ocean  freight  container  carriers 
and  OOCL  was  one  of  the  only  two  carriers 
to have received an A rating.

1

FEBRUARY  3      

On  18th  February,  OOCL  was  very  proud  to  receive  the 
“Digital  Transformation  Award”  from  ESCP  Europe  –  a 

leading  European  business  school  celebrating  its  200th 

anniversary  this  year.  The  awards  program  recognised 
outstanding  achievements  and  success  in  the  organisation’s 

digital transformation journey.

3

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2019

3
3

 
Significant Events – 2019

MARCH  4   5   6    

On  25th  March,  Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  and  its  subsidiaries  (the  “Group”)  announced  a  profit 
attributable to equity holders for 2018 of US$108.2 million, compared to a profit of US$137.7 million in 2017.

On 26th March, OOCL Logistics held an opening ceremony 
to  commemorate  the  launch  of  a  new  warehouse  in  the 
Shanghai  Yangshan  Free  Trade  Zone.  This  new  warehouse 
serves  as  a  distribution  center  to  facilitate  the  process  of 
cross-docking  and  order  fulfillment  with  the  support  of 
information technology. With the establishment of the new 
facility, the overall performance and efficiency of domestic 
distribution can be substantially improved.

4

6

5

MAY  7   8   9   10  

OOCL  introduced  the  new  Middle  East/Indian  Subcontinent  –  North  Europe  Services  (IP1  and  IP2)  to  strengthen  our 
North  Europe  service  network  with  the  Middle  East  and  Indian  Subcontinent.  The  IP1  and  IP2  provide  direct  linkage 
between  the  Middle  East,  Pakistan,  India,  United  Kingdom,  France,  Belgium,  Netherlands  and  Germany,  offering  more 
competitive and reliable services than transshipment options.

7

8

4

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Significant Events – 2019

With  our  focus  to  expand  our  business  network  in  the  Latin  America  market  and  to  meet  the  growing  demand  for 
quality services in this region, OOCL announced two new services, namely the Transpacific Latin Atlantic 2 (TLA2) and 
Transpacific Latin Caribbean 1 (TLC1), beginning in June. These new products provide customers with competitive and 
reliable services from Asia to South America East Coast and the Caribbean.

9

10

OOCL Logistics was pleased to announce that Southatlantic Maritima, S.A. and RWT Cargo Peru had been appointed as 
the company’s agents in Argentina and Peru respectively. As of 15th May 2019, the business network of OOCL Logistics 
had expanded to over 140 offices in more than 40 countries around the world.

OOCL  received  the  Top  Ranked  Carrier  2019  award  from  the  Agriculture  Transportation  Coalition  (AgTC)  members 
who participated in the 14th AgTC Ocean Carrier Performance Survey. Over the last ten years, this was the fourth time 
that OOCL had been ranked at the top spot by AgTC members which comprised a broad and diverse cross-section of US 
agricultural and forest products exporters and importers from all geographic regions.

JUNE  11   12   13   14   

11

12

55

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Significant Events – 2019

14

With  our  commitment  to  environmental  excellence,  OOCL  was  proud  to  receive  the 
Green  Shipping  Award  at  the  Seatrade  Maritime  Awards  Asia  ceremony  on  28th  June 
2019.  Highly  recognised  as  one  of  the  most  important  events  in  the  industry,  this 
distinguished  award  celebrated  and  recognised  our  exceptional  accomplishments  in 
environmental sustainability.

13

JULY  15   16   17   18   19  

CargoSmart  announced  the  execution  of  the  Global  Shipping  Business  Network  (GSBN)  Services  Agreements  with 
maritime industry operators CMA CGM, COSCO SHIPPING Lines, COSCO SHIPPING Ports, Hapag-Lloyd, Hutchison 
Ports, OOCL, Port of Qingdao, PSA International and Shanghai International Port Group. Under these agreements, each 
signatory commits to provide resources to support preparatory work required to establish the GSBN, a not-for-profit joint 
venture to accelerate the digital transformation of the shipping industry.

15

16

OOCL announced the extension of its North Europe service 
network  to  the  East  Indian  Subcontinent  by  introducing 
the  new  Middle  East/Indian  Subcontinent  –  North  Europe 
Service  (IP3)  to  be  launched  in  October,  2019.  The  IP3 
product  is  the  first  of  its  kind  in  the  industry,  providing 
extensive  coverage  of  India’s  East  Coast  with  direct  linkage 
between  the  Middle  East,  India,  Sri  Lanka,  Egypt,  Greece, 
Netherlands,  United  Kingdom,  Germany,  Belgium  and 
France.

17

6

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Significant Events – 2019

OOCL  Logistics  introduced  a  revolutionary  interface  which  has  reshaped  the  current  manual  process  of 
documentation  by  enabling  frontline  colleagues  to  share  shipping  information  electronically  with  trucking 
vendors  through  scanned  QR  codes.  Without  the  need  to  submit  physical  documents,  this  IT  solution  reduces 
manual  input,  minimises  waiting  time,  accelerates  the  container  pick  up  process  and  reduces  lead  time.  The 
simplified  workflow  in  the  supply  chain  process  also  enables  our  customers  to  invest  more  time  on  their  core 
business activities.

On 25th July, the OOCL Hong Kong made her maiden call to the Port of Hong Kong and was warmly welcomed 
by  the  community  who  went  to  marvel  at  one  of  the  world’s  largest  containerships  with  a  carrying  capacity  of 
21,413 TEU.

18

19

In  response  to  the  growing  demand  for  transport  services  in  Russia,  OOCL  Logistics  announced  the  launch 
of  a  fleet  of  trucks  in  the  country  to  serve  the  booming  import/export  business.  The  first  phase  of  the  project 
introduced  eight  trucks  with  new  fuel-efficient  engines  and  over  the  long-term,  the  fleet  will  help  enhance 
distribution management capabilities, efficiency, and performance.

AUGUST   20   21   22   23     

20

21

On  26th  August,  Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  and  its  subsidiaries 
(the  “Group”)  announced  a  profit  attributable  to  equity  holders  of  US$139.0 
million  for  the  six-month  period  ended  30th  June  2019,  compared  to  a  loss  of 
US$10.3 million for the same period in 2018.

OOCL  Logistics  launched  a  new  automated  robotic  warehouse  that  deploys 
Automated  Guided  Vehicles,  (or  Electric  Vehicles  called  EVE),  to  streamline 
warehouse  processes  and  maximise  productivity.  The  newly  developed  smart 
warehouse in Ibaraki, Japan, serves as a major logistics hub for OOCL Logistics 
in the region.

77

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Significant Events – 2019

OOCL once again won the 2019 Singapore Environmental Achievement Award (Regional) this year, an award 
that  recognises  persistence  and  dedication  to  achieving  environmental  sustainability  in  all  aspects  of  the 
business  operation.  This  would  be  OOCL’s  third  time  winning  this  award  in  the  same  category  which  is  a 
testament of OOCL’s outstanding environmental stewardship.

22

23

SEPTEMBER  24   25   26   27   28   29

OOCL  Logistics  and  business  partner  Yum!  China  held  a 
grand opening ceremony at the new jointly operated Kunshan 
Supply China Support Center in Jiangsu China. This logistics 
Center  has  independent  loading  and  unloading  platforms 
with a state-of-the-art automation system and advanced IT to 
help optimise product order to shipment processes, minimise 
cost, improve inventory accuracy, and enhance flexibility and 
responsiveness in the supply chain.

24

CargoSmart  and  the  Shanghai  Shipping  Exchange  signed  a  Memorandum  of  Cooperation  to  develop  a  new 
shipping index for ocean carrier schedule reliability and for the industry as a whole to improve service quality.

O O C L   i n t r o d u c e d   n e w   a d v a n c e s   t o 
MyOOCLReefer  (MOR)  services  which  leverages 
t he  l atest  te chnolog ies  such  as  Ar t if ici a l 
Intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT), mobile 
and telematic devices. The upgraded MOR brings 
an  unprecedented  level  of  transparency,  visibility 
and  convenience  to  shippers  when  they  manage 
their reefer cargo shipments with OOCL.

25

26

8

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Significant Events – 2019

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  announced  the 
appointment of new executive officer positions. Effective from 
18th  September  2019,  Mr.  Haimin  Wang,  Co-Chief  Executive 
Officer  of  OOCL,  has  been  appointed  as  Chief  Executive 
Officer  of  OOIL  to  succeed  Mr.  Xiaowen  Huang.  Mr.  Zhijian 
Yang,  General  Manager  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  and 
Managing  Director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines,  has  been 
appointed  as  Co-Chief  Executive  Officer  of  OOCL  to  succeed 
Mr. Haimin Wang.

27

28

OOCL  Logistics  completed  its  ISO  14064-1  Greenhouse  Gas  (GHG)  data 
reporting  and  verification  process  for  the  year  2018.  Accredited  by  Lloyd’s 
Register  Quality  Assurance  Ltd  (LRQA),  this  achievement  is  part  of  the 
company’s long-term commitment to sustainable performance and emissions data 
integrity.

29

OCTOBER   30   31     

OOCL  Logistics  announced  the  launch  of  a  new  digital  chatbot  assistant  named  ACE  on  the 
company’s VendorPodium system. The ACE chatbot is an “Artificial Clever Entity” and its mission is 
to be accessible, convenient, and efficient for customers as an interactive communication channel that 
greatly enhances the user experience on the OOCL Logistics VendorPodium platform.

CargoSmart  proudly  received  the  Lloyd’s  List  2019  Excellence  in  Supply  Chain  Management 
Asia  Pacific  Award  that  recognised  the  company’s  commitment  and  contributions  to  continuous 
improvement  in  the  shipping  industry.  The  award  recognised  CargoSmart’s  success  in  developing 
advanced  solutions  to  improve  operational  efficiency  and  service  reliability  in  the  supply  chain  by 
leveraging latest technologies such as artificial intelligence and Internet of Things.

30

31

99

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Significant Events – 2019

NOVEMBER  32   33   34   35   36   37

CargoSmart  announced  the  successful  completion  of  a  proof-of-concept  with  eTradeConnect,  a  multi-bank  blockchain 
consortium in Hong Kong facilitated by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority. The engagement explored ways to improve 
global  trade  through  enhanced  collaboration  among  shippers,  banks,  terminal  operators,  and  ocean  carriers  with 
applications to be further developed once the GSBN is formed.

32

OOCL  held  a  50th  Anniversary  Free  Family  Fun  Day 
event  at  the  Hong  Kong  Maritime  Museum  to  celebrate 
the  company’s  fifty  years  anniversary  with  the  Hong  Kong 
community.  Specially  designed  50th  anniversary  postcard 
sets were available on charity sale at the museum where all 
proceeds were directly donated to the development fund of 
the museum.

33

34

OOCL  was  presented  with  the  Liner  Trade  Award: 
Australia-South  East  Asia  and  the  Customer  Service 
Award  at  the  DCN  Australian  Shipping  &  Maritime 
Industry Awards 2019. The Liner Trade Award: Australia-
South  East  Asia  highlighted  OOCL’s  outstanding 
performance  in  meeting  customer  requirements  through 
our AAA1, AAA2, and ASA service network.

35

10

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Significant Events – 2019

OOCL  proudly  received  the  Hong  Kong  Sustainability  Award 
and  Special  Recognition  for  Outstanding  Sustainability 
Initiative:  Environmental  Dimension  at  the  Hong  Kong 
Sustainability Award 2018/19 ceremony on 11th November 2019. 
Receiving  the  two  awards  from  the  Hong  Kong  Management 
Association  (HKMA),  OOCL  was  pleased  to  be  recognised  for 
its  achievements  and  dedication  to  sustainability  and  green 
initiatives.

36

37

CargoSmart  announced  the  brand-new  “CargoSmart  Connected  Reefer  Solution”,  a  one-stop  reefer  cargo  management 
solution for ocean carriers and shippers. The AI and IoT-enabled solution features end-to-end information transparency, 
including  enhanced  reefer  container  Pre-Trip  Inspection  (PTI)  support,  real-time  container  status  monitoring  updates, 
and predictive cargo arrival status.

DECEMBER  38   39     

OOCL  was  very  honored  to  receive  the  Excellence  in 
Environmental  Management  award  at  the  2019  Lloyd’s 
List  Europe  Awards,  (formerly  known  as  the  Global 
Awards),  ceremony  in  London  on  10th  December 
2019.  This  award  pays  tribute  to  a  company  that  has 
made  significant  contributions  to  minimizing  marine 
environment pollution.

38

On 21st December 2019, the OOCL Nagoya made her maiden 
call  to  the  Port  of  Durban,  marking  the  first  OOCL  vessel  to 
Africa. 

39

1111

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Chairman’s Statement

Chairman’s Statement

I would once again like to express my sincere gratitude 
to all our shareholders and customers around the world 
for their continuous attention and support to our group. 
Meanwhile, I would also like to thank our entire staff, both 
onshore and offshore, for their diligence, tenacity and team 
spirit in helping OOIL achieve such good results in 2019.

Captain Xu Lirong
Chairman

12

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Chairman’s Statement

Dear Shareholders,

We  continued  to  enjoy  significant  synergy  benefits  in  2019. 

Indeed,  our  original  synergy  targets  established  during  the 

First  of  all,  on  behalf  of  the  Board  and  the  management  of 

acquisition  process  have  already  been  exceeded,  and  our 

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (“OOIL”),  I  would 

teams  continue  to  work  hard  to  identify  and  exploit  further 

once  again  like  to  express  my  sincere  gratitude  to  all  our 

areas  where  synergy  benefits  may  be  obtained.  These  highly 

shareholders  and  customers  around  the  world  for  their 

tangible benefits, achieved through effective network planning, 

continuous  attention  and  support  to  our  group.  Meanwhile, 

equipment  management,  joint  procurement  and  co-operation 

I  would  also  like  to  thank  our  entire  staff,  both  onshore  and 

in  IT,  will  be  a  key  success  factor  for  our  group  in  2020  and 

offshore, for their diligence, tenacity and team spirit in helping 

beyond.

OOIL achieve such good results in 2019.

For  many  years,  the  OOIL  balance  sheet  has  been  one  of  the 

I  am  pleased  to  report  that  OOIL  recorded  a  net  profit 

most  robust  in  the  container  shipping  industry.  This  strength 

attributable  to  shareholders  for  2019  of  US$1,348.8  million 

has  been  boosted  in  2019  by  year-on-year  improvements  in 

(2018: US$108.2 million). This result includes a gain from the 

operating cash inflow, which increased from US$589.7 million 

sale  of  our  interests  in  the  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  of 

in  2018  to  US$753.4  million  in  2019,  and  in  our  EBIT,  which 

US$1,153.6  million.  However,  even  setting  aside  this  one-off 

increased  from  US$313.7  million  in  2018  to  US$452.3  million 

gain, our underlying performance was pleasing, with profit for 

in 2019.

the year of US$195.2 million (2018: US$108.2 million).

In  combination  with  this  healthy  revenue  generation  and 

On 6th December 2019, the Board was pleased to announce a 

operating cash flow, the proceeds of the sale of our Long Beach 

special  dividend  of  US$1.6  (HK$12.48)  per  ordinary  share  of 

Container Terminal have added considerable further resources 

the Company, which was paid on 3rd February 2020.

to the group. We applied some of these funds to a program of 

early  repayment  of  debt  during  the  period,  such  that  we  were 

In  addition  to  this  special  dividend,  it  is  proposed  that  a 

able to reduce our net debt from US$1,951.0 million as at 31st 

final  dividend  of  US2.69  cents  (HK$0.210)  per  ordinary 

December 2018 to US$1,132.3 million as at 31 December 2019.

share  be  paid  for  2019  and  a  special  dividend  of  US24.0  cents 

(HK$1.872)  per  ordinary  share  (2018  final  dividend:  US7.7 

OOCL  has  been  growing  its  business  in  a  measured  and 

cents (HK$0.601)).

intelligent  way  for  a  number  of  years.  This  pattern  continued 

in  2019,  with  total  liftings  growing  by  3.8%  and  total  revenue 

It  is  particularly  pleasing  to  note  that  this  solid  performance 

growing  by  5.2%.  We  will  continue  this  steady  growth,  and  it 

was  achieved  in  a  context  of  an  uncertain  global  economic 

is  in  this  context  that  we  have  decided  to  implement  the  ship 

and  trade  environment.  Economic  growth  in  most  major 

renewal plan that was made five years ago, by ordering five new 

economies  continued  to  be  relatively  low,  and  seemingly 

building vessels. These are the first vessels to be ordered by the 

escalating  trade  frictions  gave  rise  to  uncertainty  throughout 

OOIL Group since 2015. Not only will these modern, efficient 

the year. It is a tribute to the professionalism and the “We take 

vessels improve our cost structure, fill the capacity gap caused 

it personally”  spirit  of  our  staff  that  we  managed  to  navigate 

by  the  future  expiry  of  chartered-in  capacity,  and  further 

these  challenging  times  so  smoothly.  I  believe  that  it  is  also 

improve  the  Group’s  environmental  protection  and  green 

further proof of the success of the entry of OOIL into the wider 

operation level, but they will also serve as clear evidence of the 

China  COSCO  SHIPPING  Group,  combining  the  strengths  of 

entire  group’s  continuing  commitment  to  our  very  successful 

both sides in one momentous step forward.

dual brand strategy.

1313

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Chairman’s Statement

The  Group  has  long  enjoyed  a  reputation  for  being  at  the 

In  terms  of  the  new  International  Maritime  Organisation 

forefront  of  digital  technology  advances  in  the  sector. 

(IMO) 2020 regulations, which require vessels to use fuel with 

We  continue  to  build  on  this  strength,  promoting  digital 

a sulphur content of no more than 0.5%, the group successfully 

development in the information era. In July 2019, CargoSmart, 

prepared  to  make  the  necessary  switches  in  good  time.  As  at 

a  subsidiary  of  OOIL,  announced  the  execution  of  the  Global 

the end of 2019, we had retrofitted one vessel with a so-called 

Shipping  Business  Network  (“GSBN”)  service  agreements 

“scrubber”,  which  extracts  sulphur  from  higher  sulphur  fuel, 

with  the  following  leading  industry  participants,  CMA 

but all of our other vessels were using low-sulphur fuel directly. 

CGM,  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines,  COSCO  SHIPPING  Ports, 

In 2020, we will continue to monitor the efficiency of scrubber 

Hapag-Lloyd,  Hutchison  Ports,  OOCL,  Port  of  Qingdao,  PSA 

technology,  as  well  as  the  price  gap  between  higher  and  lower 

International  and  Shanghai  International  Port  Group.  GSBN 

sulphur fuel, to see if the cost of installation of further scrubber 

aims  to  promote  the  establishment  and  information  sharing 

units can be justified.

of  digital  standards,  and  thereby  to  improve  the  operational 

efficiency  of  the  industry,  and  the  quality  of  its  customer 

Looking forward into 2020 more broadly, we see the market is 

service.

becoming increasingly complex, with two conflicting signals.

Our logistics business, OOCL Logistics, in line with the wider 

On the one hand, the signing of the first-phase trade agreement 

environment  in  which  it  operates,  grew  more  slowly  than 

between  China  and  the  United  States  has  removed  some  of 

in  some  recent  years.  However,  it  laid  good  foundations  for 

the  uncertainty  in  the  escalation  of  trade  frictions,  and  the 

2020,  with  new  customer  contracts  and  an  ongoing  strong 

narrowing of the gap between demand and supply in container 

commercial effort. We will continue to grow this business at a 

shipping market has led to reasonably positive expectations for 

steady  pace,  bringing  diversification  to  our  overall  activities, 

the industry at the start of 2020.

and thereby involving the Group in all parts of the end-to-end 

supply chain, which is becoming of greater and greater strategic 

importance.

The  Group  has  a  long  history  of  taking  environmental  and 

social  responsibility  very  seriously.  As  described  elsewhere  in 

this  report,  we  regularly  receive  environmental  rewards,  and 

we constantly take opportunities to play our part in society as 

a whole. In recent times, environmental issues have deservedly 

received  more  and  more  focus,  and  we  fully  acknowledge  the 

importance of managing the environmental impact of shipping, 

not  simply  by  respecting  applicable  regulations,  but  also  by 

striving to find innovative solutions for future advances.

14

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Chairman’s Statement

On the other hand, the sudden outbreak of COVID-19 creates 

More  than  18  months  have  passed  since  OOIL  became  part 

a  tremendous  amount  of  uncertainty.  Since  February,  we  have 

of  the  China  COSCO  SHIPPING  Group.  Together,  we  have 

witnessed  the  rapid  control  of the  epidemic  in  China  with  the 

made  tremendous  progress,  as  the  results  for  2019  attest.  We 

joint efforts of the Chinese government and the people, which 

will  continue  to  work  pro-actively  and  diligently  to  be  at  the 

made  us  believe  that  the  economic  growth  may  be  massively 

forefront  of  our  industry,  in  technology,  in  environmental 

reduced  for  a  short  period  of  time,  accompanied  by  supply 

efficiency,  in  customer  service,  as  an  employer,  and  in 

chain  interruptions,  but  quite  quickly  a  combination  of  catch-

profitability  and  financial  health.  We  will  continue  to  create 

up  demand  and  economic  stimulus  could  help  the  global 

greater value for our shareholders and for all our stakeholders.

economy  recover  swiftly.  In  March,  the  outlook  has  become 

more  pessimistic  as  the  virus  spreads  around  the  world.  If  the 

Captain Xu Lirong

epidemic is further escalated globally and lasts for a long time, 

Chairman

the  medium  and  long-term  impact  will  be  more  extensive 

Hong Kong, China, 20th March 2020

and  significant,  and  the  growth  of  the  global  economy  and 

container shipping demand will decline.

In  general,  the  impact  of  the  epidemic  in  2020  may  be  longer, 

and  market  uncertainty  is  further  increasing.  We  expect  the 

governments  of  many  countries  and  regions  may  launch 

further  stimulus  packages  to  alleviate  the  downward  pressure 

on  the  global  economy.  We  firmly  believe  that  China’s 

economy  will  continue  to  maintain  stable  growth  in  the 

medium  and  long  term,  and  will  continue  to  be  an  important 

stabiliser  for  global  economic  growth,  thereby  supporting 

global  trade  demand  and  the  development  of  the  shipping 

industry.

The  current  situation  of  our  industry  is  very  challenging. 

Nevertheless,  we  can  say  that  OOIL  is  well  prepared  to  resist 

any  potential  headwinds,  and  has  a  good  track  record  of 

adapting  quickly  to  changes  in  demand  and  in  the  operating 

environment.  We  have  introduced  special  working  procedures 

to  protect  our  staff,  and  have  been  in  regular  communication 

with our customers and vendors. We stand ready to work with 

all our stakeholders to deal with the situation as it evolves.

1515

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Operations Review

Operations Review

The financial outturn for 2019 was a 
tremendous improvement upon the result 
generated in 2018.

16

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Operations Review

CONTAINER TRANSPORT
In  2019,  global  economy  had  only  2.9%  growth,  which  was 
the  lowest  level  since  2008-09.  The  uncertainties  of  the  on-
going US-China trade discussions and Brexit further hampered 
economic growth.

In  container  shipping  industry,  global  demand  growth  in 
2019  was  only  2.6%,  half  of  the  growth  in  2018.  The  global 
supply  growth  was  4%.  However,  effective  supply  growth  was 
contained during the year because of few new vessels entering 
the  market  and  the  increase  in  the  number  of  idled  vessels, 
some  of  which  were  idled  for  the  purpose  of  retrofitting 
scrubbers.  Therefore,  the  market  equilibrium  of  supply  and 
demand  was  stable,  which  was  favourable  to  freight  rate 
stabilisation.

In  the  cautiously  optimistic  environment  of  2019,  benefiting 
from  the  synergy  arising  from  the  “dual-brand”  strategy  of 
COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings,  we  expanded  our  presence  into 
new trade lanes, not only to benefit from the dynamic growth 
seen  in  many  emerging  markets,  but  also  in  order  to  further 
build up our global coverage.

On the basis of an increase in liftings as well as an even higher 
increase in revenue levels, the financial outturn for 2019 was a 
tremendous  improvement  upon  the  result  generated  in  2018. 
Even if trade growth had been slow in some trade lanes in the 
second  half  of  2019,  especially  in  the  fourth  quarter  last  year, 
this slowdown was outpaced by improving freight rates.

Our  group  continued  our  long-standing  practice  of  effective 
cost  management,  which  indeed  has  been  considerably 
enhanced  by  a  full  year  of  synergy  benefits  from  the  “dual-
brand”  strategy  achieved  through  our  acquisition  by  COSCO 
SHIPPING  Holdings.  The  group’s  initial  synergy  targets  have 
been  more  than  achieved,  which  we  expect  will  enhance  our 
ability  to  serve  all  of  our  stakeholders,  whether  customers, 
shareholders, creditors or employees.

1717

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Operations Review

Traditional  heavy  oil  prices  declined  towards  the  end  of  2019, 
and  remained  within  a  relatively  stable  band  throughout  most 
of the year. We expect that one of the major factors driving the 
performance  of  the  industry  in  2020  will  be  the  impact  of  the 
introduction  of  the  IMO  2020  regulations  that  require  vessels 
only to use fuel with a level of sulphur below 0.5%. The price of 
IMO 2020 compliant fuel in the last one to two months of 2019 
fluctuated at between US$200-US$300 per ton above the price 
of the higher sulphur previous market standard fuel. The extent 
to  which  IMO  2020  compliant  fuel  prices  can  be  transmitted 
along  the  supply  chain  will  certainly  be  a  key  factor  in  any 
analysis of the outcome of 2020.

For  many  years  now,  we  have  commented  on  the  benefits  of 
alliance membership. Our situation within the Ocean Alliance 
continues to provide us significant advantage, and ensures that 
we  are  able  to  offer  a  broad,  high-quality  service  network  to 
our  customers.  We  have  been  members  of  the  Ocean  Alliance 
for  three  years,  and  look  forward  to  attaining  further  benefit 
from our continued membership into a fourth year.

Continuing  the  pattern  of  the  last  few  years,  2019  was  a  year 
of  measured  and  intelligent  growth  for  OOCL.  For  the  full 
year  2019,  OOCL’s  liftings  were  up  3.8%  overall.  This  growth 
outpaced the volume growth seen in the market as a whole.

We  concluded  the  sale  of  our  terminal  in  Long  Beach, 
California. Recognising the high quality of the terminal, a good 
sales  price  was  achieved,  resulting  in  a  profit  of  US$1,153.6 
million.  The  new  buyer  has  thereby  acquired  a  very  attractive 
asset,  and  as  part  of  the  overall  arrangements,  OOCL 
will  continue  to  have  access  to  the  terminal  to  service  the 
requirements of our Trans-Pacific trade.

TEU
1.6%
4.6%
4.1%
4.8%
3.8%

Growth in 2019
Revenue
5.9%
7.1%
5.8%
2.3%
5.2%

Revenue/TEU
4.2%
2.4%
1.6%
(2.4%)
1.3%

OOCL Liner
1Q19 v 1Q18
2Q19 v 2Q18
3Q19 v 3Q18
4Q19 v 4Q18
Total

18

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operations Review

Trade

Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia/Australasia

Total

LIFTING (’000 TEU)

REVENUE (US$ million)

2019

1,967
1,423
478
3,086

6,954

2018

1,974
1,302
426
2,995

6,697

Variance

(0.4%)
9.3%
12.0%
3.1%

3.8%

2019

2,513
1,233
593
1,937

6,276

2018

2,437
1,187
514
1,825

5,963

Variance

3.1%
3.9%
15.3%
6.1%

5.2%

Trans-Pacific – For the year as a whole growth for the industry 
was  marginally  negative.  The  first  three  quarters  had  seen 
more  or  less  flat  growth,  but  strong  negative  growth  in  the 
fourth  quarter  meant  that  the  industry’s  figures,  according 
to  Alphaliner,  were  at  minus  2.5%.  As  mentioned  above,  this 
may  be  partly  a  basis  effect,  given  that  the  growth  figures  of 
late  2018  were  very  good,  driven  by  a  rapidly  improving  US 
economy  and,  to  some  extent,  advance  ordering  of  goods  to 
avoid  tariffs.  The  US  economy  was  more  stable  in  late  2019, 
and there was no front loading of orders, not even to avoid the 
potential impact of higher fuel costs driven by IMO2020.

Although  there  appears  to  be  continuing  strength  in  the  US 
economy,  it  is  right  to  be  cautious  about  our  prospects  in  the 
Trans-Pacific  trade  in  2020,  notwithstanding  the  agreement 
of  a  first  phase  trade  deal  between  the  US  and  China.  As  the 
Trans-Pacific  remains  one  of  our  key  trades,  we  will  continue 
to monitor developments closely, and will be ready to adapt to 
the evolving market situation.

Asia-Europe  –  The  overall  economic  performance  of  the 
European  economies  was  less  solid  that  of  the  US,  but  in 
general  held  steady,  with  sentiment  being  more  positive  than 
in  most  recent  years.  Indeed,  certain  European  countries 
performed  reasonably  well,  including  the  United  Kingdom 
(UK) and France.

Liftings increased significantly. This, coupled with much lower 
supply  side  growth,  helped  to  generate  a  broadly  healthy  rate 
environment for much of the period.

Over the years since the UK’s 2016 referendum on leaving the 
European  Union,  much  has  been  written  about  the  potential 
effect  of  Brexit  on  international  trade.  Following  the  UK 
General  Election  in  December  2019,  and  the  UK’s  subsequent 
exit from the European Union in January 2020, the doubt about 
whether Brexit would happen or not has at least been removed, 
and  this  certainty  is  preferable,  even  if  much  detail  remains 
unknown.  However,  more  broadly,  and  throughout  the  long 
period  of  uncertainty,  we  have  felt  that  as  a  global  container 
shipping  company  engaged  in  trade  between  countries  with 
all  manner  of  trading  arrangements,  we  would  likely  have 
relatively  little  direct  exposure  to  any  negative  impacts,  if 
indeed  there  were  to  be  any  negative  impacts.  Our  Intra-
Europe business is relatively small as a proportion of our total 
business, and indeed carries relatively minor volumes between 
the European Union and the UK.

1919

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operations Review

Trans-Atlantic  –  A  generally  healthier  economic  situation 
on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic  drove  a  better  performance  in 
the  Trans-Atlantic  market.  In  this  positive  context,  we  were 
able  to  grow  our  participation  in  this  market,  and  to  increase 
both liftings and revenues by significant percentages. As trade 
discussions start between the EU and the US, we will monitor 
the situation carefully for any potential impact on our business. 
More  positively,  the  EU  Canada  free  trade  agreement,  and 
perhaps eventually a UK US free trade agreement, could bring 
some benefit to our Transatlantic operations.

Intra-Asia  and  Australasia  –  The  market  conditions  in  the 
Intra-Asia trade were improved. It is true that US-China trade 
discussions  have  not  dramatically  changed  the  nature  of  the 
market,  although  we  note  that  there  are  increasing  levels  of 
business  in  South  East  Asia  and  other  parts  of  our  Intra-Asia 
network.  Like  most  industry  participants,  we  have  worked 
hard  to  provide  additional  network  and  capacity  to  serve  our 
customers  where  they  do  business,  including  in  fast  growing 
economies such as Vietnam.

Australian  trade  performed  relatively  well  for  much  of  the 
period, while Middle Eastern and Indian Sub-Continent routes 
were  generally  much  healthier  than  they  had  been  in  recent 
years.

MAJOR CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS
Approximately  7.8%  and  20.8%  of  the  Group’s  total 
expenditure  on  purchases  of  goods  and  services  for  the  year 
are attributable to the largest supplier and five largest suppliers 
respectively.

MARINE TERMINALS
In  October  2019,  under  a  National  Security  Agreement  with 
the  US  Government  associated  with  COSCO  SHIPPING 
Holdings’  acquisition  of  OOIL,  the  Long  Beach  Container 
Terminal  in  California  was  divested  from  the  Group  and 
purchased  by  the  Macquarie  Infrastructure  Partners,  an 
Australia based investment fund.

OOCL’s  other  terminal,  the  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal 
had  a  volume  of  1.3  million  TEU,  slightly  higher  than  2018. 
Tianjin  Port  Alliance  International  Container  Terminal  Co., 
Ltd.  and  Ningbo  Yuandong  Terminal  Ltd.,  where  OOCL  has  a 
20% interest in each, together handled about 5.0 million TEU, 
about 3% increase over 2018.

SHIP OPERATIONS

As at 31st December, 2019, the OOCL fleet composition was as 
follows:

Approximately  1.5%  and  5.8%  of  the  Group’s  total  reported 
revenues  for  the  year  are  attributable  to  the  largest  customer 
and five largest customers respectively.

Fleet

Owned/ 

No. of Vessels

TEU Capacity

The  Group  has  entered  into  slot  sharing  arrangements 
with  other  container  shipping  companies.  The  receipts  and 
payments  from  slot  sharing  arrangements  have  not  been 
included  in  determining  the  major  customers  and  suppliers 
since  it  would  be  misleading  to  do  so  as  the  receipts  and 
payments  are  in  respect  of  sharing  arrangements  for  the 
utilisation of vessel space.

No director or any of his associates holds any equity interest in 
the suppliers or customers included above.

Long Term Lease

Short Term Lease

Operating Capacity

68
36

104

585,035
148,545

733,580

During  the  year,  the  Group  did  not  take  delivery  of  nor  did  it 
place any order for new building vessels. On 10th March 2020, 
the  Group  entered  into  contracts  to  construct  five  units  of 
23,000  TEU  container  vessels  at  a  consideration  of  US$778.4 
million which are expected to deliver in year 2023.

As  of  the  end  of  2019,  the  average  age  of  OOCL’s  fleet  of 
owned  vessels  was  9.77  years  and  the  average  size  was  8,915 
TEU.

20

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Bunker Cost/Saving

The  fuel  price  trend  in  2019  was  quite  stable.  Throughout  the 
year,  we  have  constantly  been  focusing  intensely  on  bunker 
and engine lubricant oil saving programs for cost saving. These 
programs  include  constantly  maintaining  optimal  routing  and 
speeds  for  our  vessels,  efficient  use  of  shaft  generator,  and 
achieving minimum ballast and optimal trim.

When  the  IMO  2020  regulation  is  in  effect,  it  is  expected  that 
higher  bunker  expenses  will  be  incurred  in  year  2020  because 
the use of Low Sulphur Fuel oil is OOCL’s primary approach to 
comply with the new regulation.

To date, the OOCL Singapore is the only vessel in our fleet that 
is installed with scrubber using the lower priced High Sulphur 
fuel oil and she meets the IMO 2020 Sulphur cap requirement. 
The payback period from the investment on scrubber depends 
on the price difference between high and low sulphur fuel oil. 
The larger the difference, the shorter the payback time.

Other  than OOCL Singapore,  all  the  fuel  tanks  in  our  own 
vessels had been cleaned and successfully transitioned to using 
Low Sulphur fuel oil by 31st December 2019.

To  ensure  our  bunker  and  cost  saving  efforts  are  effective, 
the  excellent  effort,  teamwork,  and  close  coordination  and 
collaboration  by  all  the  concerned  parties  both  on-shore  and 
off-shore are very important to our success.

All  our  M-Class  vessels  completed  the  retrofitting  of  the 
Panama  chock  and  bollard  so  that  they  can  save  fuel  by 
transiting  through  the  shortest  route  via  the  Panama  Canal 
when they are being deployed to serve the US East Coast.

Operations Review

2121

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Operations Review

Environmental Protection

In  addition  to  the  compliance  of  international  and  local 
emission  control  regulations,  we  remain  very  supportive 
of  international  efforts  to  measure  and  control  shipboard 
emissions.

Apart  from  the  installation  of  Alternative  Maritime  Power 
(AMP) systems that allows for shore-based power alternatives, 
a  number  of  our  vessels  are  also  equipped  with  Ballast  Water 
Treatment  Systems  (BWTS)  and  more  BWTS  installations  are 
being  scheduled  for  our  entire  fleet.  In  addition  to  complying 
with  the  IMO  and  USCG  regulations  on  ballast  treatment, 
our  initiatives  have  consistently  been  in  line  with  our 
environmental  policy  to  improve  fuel  efficiency  and  reduce 
emissions.

In OOCL’s fleet, four 4,500 TEU vessels, two 5,500 TEU vessels 
and  three  8,063  TEU  vessels  have  been  installed  with  BWTS 
during their drydocking period and all of them are able to sail 
into the US, allowing for more flexibility in fleet deployment.

In  addition  to  regulatory  compliance,  we  have  also  been 
participating  in  various  initiatives  including  the  Green  Flag 
Program  at  the  Port  of  Long  Beach,  Vessel  Speed  Reduction 
Program  at  the  Port  of  Los  Angeles,  and  the  Shenzhen  Port 
Green  Convention  initiated  by  the  Shenzhen  Transportation 
Commission (SZMOT) in China.

With  the  IMO  2020  Low  Sulphur  regulation  in  effect,  we 
expect  a  markedly  lower  level  of  sulphur  emissions  will  be 
achieved in the industry and a very positive direction forward 
to protecting our environment.

22

LOGISTICS
In 2019, OOCL Logistics had a negative growth of 0.1%, 8.0% 
and  61.3%  in  revenue,  gross  profit  and  net  profit  after  tax 
respectively.

For  our  International  Supply  Chain  Management  services, 
the  volume  of  cargo  we  handled  for  our  existing  customers 
dropped  in  2019,  mainly  because  of  the  increasing  market 
competition. We continued to exert our utmost efforts to help 
our clients enhance their supply chain visibility and efficiency, 
optimise  operation  network,  and  reduce  supply  chain  cost 
through  the  use  of  our  innovative  solutions  and  systems  such 
as  the  powerful  features  from  our  Podium  platform  and  the 
Intelligent  Report  System.  Despite  the  slight  drop  in  our 
revenue  and  contribution  in  2019  as  a  result  of  the  volume 
drop,  we  secured  a  few  significant  contracts  which  will 
commence in 2020.

While  operating  in  such  a  challenging  economic  and  market 
environment,  our  Non-Vessel  Operating  Common  Carrier 
(NVOCC) business in 2019 still managed to achieve moderate 
growth,  thanks  to  our  strong  business  performance  in  Russia 
and  West  Asia.  2019  was  another  record-breaking  year  in  our 
air-freight forwarding business which has continued to be on a 
growth trajectory since it was first launched in 2016.

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Operations Review

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
To  strengthen  our  competitive  edge  in  2019,  much  emphasis 
was put into enhancing our IT capabilities on all fronts – from 
infrastructure,  cyber  security,  enterprise  digital  workspace, 
Artificial  Intelligence  (AI)  enabled  applications  to  industry 
wide blockchain platform.

As  part  of  our  office  digitalisation  strategy  to  build  up  the 
enterprise  digital  workspace  and  digital  collaboration  hub 
so  that  we  may  improve  our  productivity  and  efficiency,  we 
rolled out Microsoft Teams under the Office 365 suite to form 
the  integrated  Enterprise  Social  Collaboration  platform  and 
integrated  digital  workspace  for  the  enterprise.  We  adopted  a 
hybrid  cloud  strategy  that  provides  us  with  agility,  improves 
our  infrastructure  resilience,  strengthens  our  cyber  security 
protection  and  empowers  enterprise  digital  collaboration 
to  deliver  further  productivity  and  efficiency  gains.  It  also 
enables  the  dynamic  application  environment  to  support  the 
analytics  platform  and  provide  the  foundation  of  distributed 
systems  anywhere  as  a  service  mode.  With  the  new  STMC 
(Global  Cyber  Security  Threat  Monitoring  Center)  launched 
in the Zhuhai ISDC in December 2019, and in addition to the 
implementation  of  other  preventive  protection  measures,  the 
STMC  builds  on  top  of  many  different  big  data  cyber  security 
analytics  with  a  different  level  of  actionable  monitoring 
dashboard  in  order  to  improve  the  proactive  discovery, 
monitoring  advancement,  and  ability  to  respond  to  cyber 
security incidents more quickly.

In  order  to  improve  cost  efficiency  in  our  equipment 
management, we continued to strengthen the IT support in the 
areas  of  container  inventory  and  empty  repositioning.  Apart 
from the Equipment Pool System that helps realise the synergy 
from  managing  a  pooled  container  inventory  between  OOCL 
and COSCO SHIPPING Lines, advanced machine learning and 
optimisation  techniques  have  been  applied  to  more  accurately 
forecast empty container inventory and provide optimal empty 
repositioning  plans.  Moreover,  the  vessel  network  control 
capability has been strengthened by providing total visibility of 
the  global  network  for  traffic  control  and  disruption  recovery, 
thus  resulting  in  better  overall  vessel  utilisation  and  proactive 
disruption management that is more effective. On the customer 
service  front,  the  Innovative  Centers  have  been  set  up  in  the 
regions  to  champion  innovative  ideas  that  may  help  improve 
customer  experience  and  differentiate  OOCL’s  customer 
service from its competitors.

2323

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Operations Review

CargoSmart

In  2019,  CargoSmart  signed  Global  Shipping  Business 
Network  (GSBN)  Services  Agreements  with  nine  maritime 
industry  operators,  which  includes  carriers  and  terminals,  to 
establish  a  not-for-profit  joint  venture  to  accelerate  the  digital 
transformation of the shipping industry. CargoSmart leverages 
existing  shipping  domain  knowledge  as  well  as  expertise  in 
developing  software  architecture  and  application  solutions 
with blockchain technologies to establish the foundation of the 
platform  and  build  applications.  The  proof-of-concept  with 
eTradeConnect was an  important  milestone  that  demonstrates 
the value in cross-network collaboration for trade finance.

CargoSmart  and  Shanghai  Shipping  Exchange  also  joined 
forces  to  establish  a  new  shipping  index  for  ocean  carrier 
schedule  reliability  in  late  2019.  By  tapping  into  CargoSmart’s 
comprehensive  database  and  applying  data  analytics,  the 
new  index  provides  an  effective,  accurate  and  standardised 
me asurement  of  o ce an  c ar r iers’  s che du le  reliabi lity 
performance.  It  not  only  increases  transparency  to  ocean 
carrier  performance,  but  also  helps  improve  service  quality  in 
the industry as a whole.

By  using  Internet  of  Things  (IoT)  and  Deep  Learning 
technologies,  real-time  tracking  of  cargo  for  enriched 
visibility  of  cargo  conditions,  disruption  detection,  smart 
alerts,  predictive  analysis  and  container  image  interpretation 
can  be  achieved.  The  IoT  solution  provided  by  CargoSmart 
helps  protect  cargo  value  and  loss  of  shelf  life  through  better 
exception management and also reduce reefer inspection costs. 
Both  OOCL  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines  have  adopted  the 
solution,  and  all  new  build  reefer  containers  will  be  installed 
with the new IoT devices starting from 2020.

By  establishing  a  digital  version  of  the  complex  and  dynamic 
network  that  carriers  operate  in,  the  vessels,  terminals  and 
even  the  weather  can  be  tracked  in  real-time  with  situation 
awareness  capability.  This  AI  enabled  capability  through  the 
use  of  our  intelligent  Robo-Advisor  offers  carriers  a  solution 
that predicts competing vessels’ routes, arrival times, port stays 
and berthing priorities to optimise their bunker consumption, 
vessel  sea  time  and  port  waiting  time  to  improve  operational 
efficiency.  Schedule  recovery  simulation  capability  allows  for 
better  control  of  bunker  consumption  with  various  schedule 
recovery strategies.

24

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019CargoSmart  has  also  extended  its  solution  offerings  to 
feeder  and  ocean  rail  management,  providing  a  visibility  and 
collaboration  platform  that  facilitates  efficient  feeder  slot  and 
rail  planning  to  meet  cargo  demand.  It  also  supports  timely 
management of the profit and loss of the business.

One IT Model

Over  the  past  year,  we  continued  to  create  synergy  for  both 
OOCL  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines  in  areas  such  as  IT 
infrastructure, cyber security, technology, system development 
and  implementation  by  adopting  the  One  IT  resources 
deployment  model.  Working  as  one  team,  the  implementation 
of  IRIS-4  and  the  Network  Control  Center  for  COSCO 
SHIPPING  Lines,  Equipment  Pool  System  and  global  cyber 
security  projects  for  OOCL  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines 
progressed very smoothly and expected to improve the internal 
operating efficiency of the “dual-brand” strategy and provide a 
better service experience to customers.

PROPERTY

Based on an independent valuation as at 31st December 2019, 
Wall  Street  Plaza  was  included  in  the  consolidated  balance 
sheet  at  US$310.0  million.  As  at  31st  December  2018,  Wall 
Street  Plaza  was  valued  at  US$310.0  million  with  a  net  fair 
value gain of US$39.5 million in 2018.

Operations Review

2525

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Responsibility

Corporate Responsibility
Corporate Responsibility

The Group is dedicated to promoting 
sustainable business practices in the 
supply chain. Our Corporate Sustainable 
Procurement Policy has been implemented 
in every aspect of our business and at every 
stage of the supply chain.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2019

26

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Corporate Responsibility
Corporate Responsibility

The  Group  prides  itself  upon  being  a  responsible  corporate 
citizen and it employs the highest standards of business ethics 
in  all  that  it  does.  Headed  by  a  senior  management  Steering 
Committee  and  a  Global  Security,  Safety  and  Environment 
Care Officer, the Group embraces the core values of Corporate 
Social Responsibility at all levels.

The  Group  places  the  utmost  importance  on  environmental 
care  and  community  support.  Despite  the  current  difficult 
economic  environment,  we  must  continue  to  address  the 
long-term  threat  of  climate  change.  We  strive  to  play  our  part 
in  tackling  this  global  problem  through  engagement  with 
organisations  such  as  the  Business  Environment  Council, 
the  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  and  the  Maritime  Anti-
Corruption  Network.  Throughout  the  year,  the  Group  has 
won  awards  and  accolades  for  its  environmental  performance, 
and  OOIL  Group  employees  around  the  world  have  been 
actively  supporting  their  local  communities  through  various 
environmental initiatives.

The  Group  is  dedicated  to  promoting  sustainable  business 
practices  in  the  supply  chain.  Our  Corporate  Sustainable 
Procurement  Policy  has  been  implemented  in  every  aspect 
of  our  business  and  at  every  stage  of  the  supply  chain. 
For  example,  under  our  vendor  and  supplier  selection 
mechanism,  a  self-assessment  of  the  potential  contractor 
must  be  completed  to  confirm  their  compliance  to  our  Safety, 
Security,  Environmental  and  Social  Guidelines,  where  on-
site verification of their facilities may  be conducted if deemed 
necessary.  Once  compliance  is  confirmed  we  would  review 
and  work  with  our  vendors  to  ensure  compliance  levels  are 
maintained.

In  addition,  the  OOCL  Carbon  Calculator  is  designed  to 
assist  OOCL  customers  measure  CO2  emissions  in  their 
supply  chains.  The  scope  of  the  calculator  spans  across 
vessels,  trucks,  feeders,  and  rail  with  over  70,000  port  pairs 
recorded.  OOCL  spearheaded  the  project  in  2010,  partnering 
with  the  Department  of  Logistics  and  Maritime  Studies  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Polytechnic  University.  The  Calculator  has  been 
checked and verified for its methodology, accuracy and carbon 
footprint  calculations  by  The  American  Bureau  of  Shipping 
(ABS) Consulting.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2019

2727

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Responsibility

OUR ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES
The  Group  recognises  that  businesses  must  take  responsibility 
for  their  industry’s  effects  on  the  environment.  Our  company 
is  dedicated  to  meeting  the  needs  of  the  present  without 
compromising  those  of  the  future.  We  encourage  sustainable 
economic  development  through  innovative  environmental 
care  measures  and  believe  that  by  taking  a  proactive  role  in 
caring  for  the  environment,  we  can  help  minimise  our  carbon 
footprint, improve air quality and make the world a better place 
to live for ourselves and future generations.

We  actively  participate  in  green  program  and  have  received 
recognition for our achievements and best practices, including:

The  Safety,  Quality  and  Environmental  (SQE)  Management 
System  Certificate  –  OOCL  was  the  first  container  shipping 
line  in  the  world  to  have  achieved  the  SQE  certification 
which  consolidates  the  ISM-Code,  ISO  9001  and  ISO  14001 
requirements.

Vessel  Speed  Reduction  Programs  –  Each  year,  OOCL  has 
been  fully  compliant  to  reducing  vessel  speed  when  entering 
within both 20 and 40 nautical miles of the Port of Long Beach 
and  Port  of  Los  Angeles  harbors.  Our  efforts  have  effectively 
contributed to improving the air quality by reducing emissions 
such  as  smog  forming  nitrogen  oxides  NOx,  diesel  particulate 
matter  and  greenhouse  gases.  Port  officials  estimate  that  if  all 
vessels comply with the Program, the amount of NOx produced 
by container ships would be reduced by nearly 550 tons a year.

Ballast  Water  Management  Program  –  All  container  ships 
discharge  ballast  water,  which  can  contain  organisms  that 
may  be  harmful  to  other  environments.  We  have  a  policy  of 
exchanging  ballast  water  only  in  the  open  sea  (200  nautical 
miles  away  from  the  nearest  coastline)  to  achieve  zero  ballast 
water  exchange  when  berthed  at  the  port.  Although  it  is  not 
mandated  by  the  International  Maritime  Organisation  (IMO), 
OOCL’s  new  buildings  are  already  equipped  with  an  IMO 
approved  Ballast  Water  Treatment  System  to  effectively  treat 
ballast water before discharging.

Hong  Kong  Green  Organisation  Certification  (HKGOC)  – 
The  HKGOC  aims  to  benchmark  the  performance  of  “green” 
organisations  to  encourage  them  to  sustain  their  various 
environmental  best  practices.  It  also  presents  organisations 
with  the  opportunity  to  demonstrate  their  commitment  to 
improve different aspects of their environmental performance. 
In  appreciation  of  our  efforts  towards  environmental 
protection,  OOCL  was  given  the  status  of  “Hong  Kong  Green 
Organisation”  (HKGO)  by  the  Environmental  Campaign 
Committee  (ECC)  from  being  a  Gold  Winner  in  the  Hong 
Kong Awards for Environmental Excellence (HKAEE).

“Class  of  Excellence”  Wastewi$e  Label  –  OOCL  also 
received  environmental  recognition  for  our  participation 
and  performance  in  the  Wastewi$e  Label  Scheme  under  the 
Hong  Kong  Awards  for  Environmental  Excellence  (HKAEE) 
program. Under the Scheme, participants must achieve at least 
nine  goals  or  more,  covering  at  least  two  of  three  Wastewi$e 
categories in order to be granted with the “Class of Excellence” 
Wastewi$e  Label.  The  three  categories  include  Waste 
Avoidance & Reduction Measures, Collection and Recycling of 
Recyclable Materials, and Purchase or Manufacture of Recycled 
Products.

Stop  Shipping  Shark,  Whale,  Dolphin,  and  Their  Related 
Products  –  OOCL  commits  that  bookings  for  whale,  shark, 
dolphin,  and  their  related  products  will  not  be  accepted. 
This  new  policy  shows  our  commitment  and  best  practices 
in  supporting  the  global  effort  to  curb  the  trade  of  at-risk, 
endangered and protected marine species.

Qualship 21 – Offered by the US Coast Guard, the Qualship 21 
program recognises high-quality ships for their excellent safety 
and antipollution standards and encourages quality operations. 
Most  of  OOCL’s  vessels  calling  the  US  have  already  been 
Qualship 21 certified since 2004.

Environmental  Data  Verification  –  Over  the  years,  OOCL 
has  been  taking  concrete,  meaningful  and  progressive  steps 
in  our  long-term  commitment  to  protecting  the  environment 
and  reducing  emissions  in  the  communities  where  we  operate 
by  meeting  our  Greenhouse  Gas  (GHG)  verification  targets 
spanning  from  Scopes  1  to  3.  In  2019,  the  verification  scope 
had  been  expanded  to  cover  consumption  and  emissions  data 
of  our  vessels,  global  offices  and  OOCL  Logistics.  OOCL  is 
committed  to  reaching  higher  standards  and  transparency 
levels  in  our  GHG  reporting  which  are  all  in  accordance  with 
the  “Greenhouse  Gas  Protocol  –  A  Corporate  Accounting 
and  Reporting  Standard.”  In  addition  to  our  work  related  to 
GHG, OOCL has also been taking a leadership role in building 
our  Environmental,  Social  and  Governance  (ESG)  profile 
to  tackle  a  wider  spectrum  of  environmental  challenges  we 
face  across  the  industry.  Verified  by  Lloyd’s  Register  Quality 
Assurance  (LRQA),  this  is  the  sixth  consecutive  year  that 
OOCL  has  achieved  dual  reporting  standards  through  the 
use  of  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  (CCWG)  and  ISO  14064-
1:2006  verification  tools  to  certify  the  transparency,  accuracy, 
completeness,  consistency  and  relevance  of  OOCL’s  data 
disclosure on Greenhouse Gas emissions.

28

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Responsibility

United  Nations  Global  Compact  (UNGC)  –  OOIL  took 
part  in  the  United  Nations  Global  Compact.  Through  our 
business strategies, operation, corporate culture, and continual 
engagement  in  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDG)  set 
out  by  the  United  Nations,  we  are  committed  to  supporting 
the  Ten  Principles  of  the  UNGC  that  sets  out  fundamental 
responsibilities  in  areas  such  as  human  rights,  labour, 
environment  and  anti-corruption.  To  demonstrate  our  long-
term  commitment  in  corporate  sustainability,  transparency, 
and  accountability,  we  aim  to  publish  a  Communication  on 
Progress  (COP)  report  on  an  annual  basis  to  describe  our 
extensive efforts in implementing the Ten Principles and SDG. 
Prior to our participation in the UNGC, we have already been 
very  active  in  building  up  our  work  on  SDGs.  Since  our  2016 
Sustainability  Report,  we  began  to  introduce  new  targets  and 
specific action items towards the formulation of relevant SDGs 
to tackle environmental and social issues across industries.

Enhancing  Cetacean  Habitat  and  Observation  (ECHO) 
Program  –  OOCL  participated  in  the  Enhancing  Cetacean 
Habitat  and  Observation  (ECHO)  Program  between  6th  July 
and  4th  October  2019  to  study  how  to  reduce  the  cumulative 
effects  of  shipping  on  at-risk  whales  throughout  the  southern 
coast  of  British  Columbia  in  Canada.  For  the  13  weeks  of  this 
Program, 69% of our vessels voluntarily sailed at slower speeds 
in the research region. OOCL’s commitment and contribution 
to  this  Program  was  an  important  part  of  our  sustainability 
work in addressing the “SDG 14: Life Below Water” component 
of marine life protection and conservation.

Our  Vessels  –  The  best  way  to  reduce  harmful  emissions  in 
the shipping industry is to reduce the consumption of fuel. For 
well  over  a  decade  OOCL  implemented  a  fuel  saving program 
including weather routing systems, slow steaming (addition of 
extra  vessels  on  service  loops  and  travelling  at  slower  speeds), 
minimising  ballast  water  to  help  achieve  a  lighter  vessel  load, 
and  achieving  better  trim  of  ship  draughts  by  good  stowage, 
thereby  burning  less  fuel.  By  taking  these  measures,  we  have 
reduced  our  CO2  emissions  by  more  than  55%  since  2004.  In 
addition  to  reducing  our  emissions,  we  are  able  to  help  our 
customers  achieve  a  lower  carbon  footprint  in  their  supply 
chains.

OOCL  Honoured  with  Distinguished  Green  Shipping 
Award  –  With  our  commitment  to  environmental  excellence, 
OOCL  was  proud  to  receive  the  “Green  Shipping  Award” 
at  the  Seatrade  Maritime  Awards  Asia  ceremony  on  28th 
June  2019.  Highly  recognised  as  one  of  the  most  important 
events in the industry, this distinguished award celebrates and 
recognises  our  exceptional  accomplishments  in  environmental 
sustainability.

OOCL  Once  Again  Wins  the  Singapore  Environmental 
Achievement Award (Regional) – OOCL was proud to receive 
the  2019  Singapore  Environmental  Achievement  Award 
(Regional)  at  a  ceremony  held  at  the  Singapore  Environment 
Council’s  (SEC)  Conference  Day  event  on  27th  August  2019. 
The  SEAA  (Regional)  Award  category  recognises  local  or 
international  companies  and  organisations  with  outstanding 
environmental performance in Asia, and this year, the regional 
scope has been expanded to welcome companies from Greater 
China, Japan, South Korea, and other ASEAN countries to take 
part in the awards scheme.

O O CL  Wins  Two  HKMA  Hong  Kong  Sustainability 
Award  Trophies  –  OOCL  proudly  received  the  “Hong 
Kong  Sustainability  Award”  and  “Special  Recognition 
for  Outstanding  Sustainability  Initiative:  Environmental 
Dimension”  at  the  Hong  Kong  Sustainability  Award  2018/19 
ceremony  on  11th  November  2019.  Organised  by  the  Hong 
Kong  Management  Association  (HKMA),  the  Hong  Kong 
Sustainability  Award  aims  at  recognising  organisations  which 
have  demonstrated  outstanding  sustainability  practices  in 
economic,  social,  and  environmental  aspects  while  achieving 
good  business  and  organisational  performance  within  their 
industry sectors. The awards program also advocates for cross-
sector  sharing  of  best  practices  while  inspiring  organisations 
to  entrench  sustainability  into  their  operation  and  culture  for 
more impactful and long-term business sustainability results.

O O CL  honoured  with  Excellence  in  Environmental 
Management  in  2019  Lloyd’s  List  Europe  Awards  –  OOCL 
was very honoured to receive the “Excellence in Environmental 
Management”  award  at  the  2019  Lloyd’s  List  Europe  Awards 
ceremony in London on 10th December 2019. Formerly known 
as  the  Lloyd’s  List  Global  Awards,  this  awards  program  is  one 
of  the  most  anticipated  events  in  the  industry,  recognising 
excellence  across  the  maritime  sector.  The  “Excellence  in 
Environmental Management” award pays tribute to a company 
which  has  made  significant  contributions  to  minimising 
marine  environment  pollution.  The  assessment  covers  several 
areas  such  as  environmentally  friendly  ship  designs  and 
operation,  reductions  in  fossil  fuel  use,  and  the  green  impact 
from corporate sustainability policies.

2929

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019SECURITY
In  a  world  where  global  cargo  security  threats  always  increase 
the  complexities  of  the  international  trade  community,  OOCL 
is strongly committed to the security of our operations against 
possible  compromise  and  to  the  maintenance  of  the  highest 
level  of  compliance  in  security  related  areas.  From  our  offices 
to  ports,  warehouses,  shore  facilities  and  onboard  our  vessels, 
we  work  with  the  responsible  authorities  to  ensure  that  every 
measure  is  in  place  to  maintain  the  highest  commercial  and 
operational  security  standards  possible  at  all  times,  while  all 
employees are educated and regularly updated through security 
training.

The Group’s Corporate Security Policy and internal guidelines 
comply  with  the  US  Customs-Trade  Partnership  Against 
Terrorism  (C-TPAT)  initiative,  EU  Authorised  Economic 
Operator  (AEO)  program,  and  we  actively  work  with  various 
governments  and  authorities  around  the  world  to  counter 
any  act  that  would  impinge  upon  maritime  or  cargo  security. 
Under  our  policy,  we  have  internal  security  checks  to  all  of 
its holdings and  our security profile has  been validated by the 
US  Customs  and  Border  Protection  agency  through  physical 
checks  of  the  offices  and  facilities  of  the  Group  including 
terminals, warehouses, depots and vessels.

Our  company  meets  the  International  Ship  and  Port  Facility 
Security Code (ISPS Code), which ensures that security threats 
are  detected  and  assessed  while  preventive  measures  are  in 
place  on  our  vessels  and  at  our  port  facilities.  A  designated 
officer  on  each  ship  and  at  each  port  facility  reports  to  the 
Company  Security  Officer  who  oversees  the  security  plans, 
drills  and  training.  With  this  in  place,  all  our  vessels  continue 
to  have  an  exemplary  record  containing  zero  breaches  of 
security  and  clean  detention  records.  In  addition,  to  provide 
world-class  quality  and  secure  information  to  customers 
and  partners,  our  Global  Data  Centre  has  also  achieved  and 
maintained ISO 27001 certification.

Corporate Responsibility

Since  2000,  all  our  vessels  have  been  installed  with 
environment-friendly  NOx-controlled  propulsive  engines 
while  advanced  slide  fuel  injection  valves  are  adopted  to  help 
reduce  NOx  emissions  by  30%.  All  our  new  buildings  since 
2011  are  also  equipped  with  Alternative  Maritime  Power 
(AMP)  Systems,  also  known  as  “Cold  Ironing”,  which  allows 
the  vessel  to  use  shore  supplied  electricity  instead  of  burning 
fuel when at berth. OOCL is fully compliant to the EU, North 
America  and  IMO  mandated  requirements  of  using  0.1%  or 
lower  sulphur  content  fuel  in  all  SOx  Emission  Control  Areas 
(SECA).  We  are  also  compliant  to  the  requirements  of  using 
0.1%  sulphur  content  fuel  when  our  vessels  are  berthed  at 
designated  EU  ports.  We  also  ensure  that  the  sulphur  content 
of our fuel is well below the IMO prescribed standard of 3.5% 
when our vessels sail in the high seas. In 2019, OOCL achieved 
an average sulphur content of 2.12%.

Our Offices – Our focus is to create and maintain a “paperless 
office”  environment  by  eliminating  the  use  of  faxes  and 
unnecessary  paper  documents.  As  a  business  which  has 
traditionally  relied  on  paper  documentation  with  customers, 
such  as  bills  of  lading  and  invoices,  we  have  successfully 
taken  innovative  measures  to  effectively  reduce  our  paper 
consumption since 2006.

We have implemented a “reduce, re-use and recycle” campaign 
in  all  our  offices  around  the  world,  encouraging  employees 
to  switch  off  computers  after  work,  powering  off  copiers  and 
lights  after  use,  and  to  install  energy  saving  office  equipment, 
such  as  energy  efficient  light  bulbs.  We  also  have  mandatory 
training  for  all  staff  in  safety,  security  and  environmental 
issues,  and  organise  OOCL  Green  Week  every  July  in  offices 
around the world.

Our  Containers  –  Today,  OOCL  only  uses  CFC-free 
refrigerants  for  all  our  refrigerated  (reefer)  containers. 
OOCL’s newest reefer containers have one of the lowest power 
consumption  in  the  industry,  and  we  install  ThermoKing 
“EcoPower”  gensets  for  better  energy  efficiency.  All  our 
containers  have  been  applied  with  tin-free  paint  and 
introduced the use of eco-friendly bamboo floorboards instead 
of using traditional hardwood ones.

The Group’s sustainability and environmentally conscious best 
practices often exceeds legal requirements and general industry 
standards  in  the  countries  where  it  operates.  As  a  responsible 
and  committed  member  of  the  international  community,  the 
Group  will  continually  strive  for  further  improvements  in  all 
aspects of its business.

30

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Responsibility

COMMUNITY AND EDUCATION
As  a  responsible  corporate  citizen,  the  Group  recognises 
that  the  societies  in  which  its  employees  live  and  work 
contribute greatly to the Group’s overall success. Care for these 
communities in which it operates is therefore a major corporate 
focus. The Group concentrates its community efforts on charity 
programs  designed  to  provide  well-rounded  youth  education, 
charity  relief  to  the  needy,  and  cultural  entertainment  to  the 
whole community.

OOCL  employees  across  the  world  are  encouraged  to  give 
something back to the communities in which they live through 
charitable  activities  such  as  fundraising  and  volunteering  by 
dedicating their  time and efforts to help others  in need. Some 
of  the  areas  where  the  charity  donations  were  made  by  the 
Group  and  its  employees  include:  education,  social  services, 
orphanages, elderly homes, schools, children’s hospitals, cancer 
research,  multiple  sclerosis,  and  diabetes  research.  In  addition 
to financial donations, the Group also contributes in kind. We 
offer  transportation  and  logistics  support  to  send  relief  to  the 
affected  areas.  Assistance  in  the  form  of  free  transportation 
is  often  given  to  a  number  of  charitable  projects  including 
transporting  medical  diagnostic  equipment  and  supplies  from 
Hong  Kong,  China  to  Ukraine  in  2019  to  care  for  those  who 
live in remote mountain area.

In  keeping  with  the  Group’s  long  tradition  in  supporting 
education,  the  Group,  in  partnership  with  The  Tung 
Foundation,  committed  more  than  US$433,000  in  2019 
to  scholarships  through  The  Tung  OOCL  Scholarship  for 
University students and our employees’ children.

OOCL  has  been  certified  as  a  “Partners  in  Protection”  (PIP) 
carrier by the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) Partners 
in  Protection.  It  is  a  voluntary  program  established  by  the 
CBSA  to  enhance  border  security,  combat  organised  crime 
and  terrorism,  detect  and  prevent  contraband  smuggling,  and 
increase  awareness  of  issues  to  secure  the  flow  of  legitimate 
goods  and  travellers  across  the  US-Canadian  border.  OOCL 
applies anti-piracy measures before our vessels transit through 
High  Risk  Areas  (HRA).  One  of  the  key  measures  is  to 
maintain  a  24-hour,  360-degree  anti-piracy  visual  and  radar 
watch and to deploy additional watch-keepers at the bridge and 
on  deck  while  transiting  the  HRA  to  watch  out  for  suspected 
pirate  vessels.  Physical  measures  are  also  utilised  onboard, 
such as barbed wires, spikes, and night vision binoculars. Close 
communication  is  always  maintained  between  ships  and  our 
Fleet  Management  Department  (FMD)  office.  FMD’s  24-hour 
emergency hotline is always on standby mode in the case of any 
emergency.

Traditionally,  antivirus  and  malware  detection  software 
would  provide  a  boost  to  our  computer  security  by  helping 
our  computers  stay  away  from  being  “infected”.  But  as  the 
development  of  the  Internet  is  becoming  more  sophisticated 
than ever, signature-based virus/malware detection tools alone 
are no longer sufficient today.

Up  to  31st  December  2019,  a  total  of  fifty  OOCL  vessels 
participated  in  the  Hong  Kong  Voluntary  Observing  Ship 
(HKVOS)  program  organised  by  the  Hong  Kong  Observatory 
(HKO).  The  program  aims  to  gather  important  marine 
climatology  data  to  identify  prevailing  weather  conditions  for 
preparing forecasts and warnings to the maritime community.

This  is  because  the “Advanced  Persistent  Threat”  (APT),  a  set 
of  stealthy  and  continuous  computer  hacking  processes  often 
orchestrated  by  attackers  targeting  a  specific  entity  by  taking 
advantage  of  security  loopholes,  is  growing.  APT  has  been 
observed  to  target  organisations  and/or  nations  for  business, 
financial  and/or  political  motives.  “Corporate  Security 
Breaches”,  “Email  Spoofing”,  “Spear  Phishing”  and  “Social 
Media Fraud” are some of the common types of cyber attacks. 
To  boost  our  employee’s  knowledge  and  awareness  of  cyber 
security, new initiatives and programs have been developed to 
ensure everyone takes part in protecting our assets and become 
more  resilient  against  such  threats.  This  includes  an  annual 
cyber  security  training  and  mandatory  test  for  all  employees, 
monthly  knowledge  and  trend  updates,  and  sophisticated 
monitoring and protective systems.

To recognise our outstanding efforts to help improve maritime 
safety  in  2018,  the  HKO  presented  the  “Diamond  Award”  to 
our  vessel OOCL France,  two  “Platinum  Award”  to  vessels 
OOCL Luxembourg  and OOCL Berlin,  and  also  a  “Gold 
Award” to vessel OOCL Tokyo on 27th June 2019. In addition, 
two  OOCL  vessels,  namely OOCL Savannah  and OOCL 
Nagoya,  had  been  presented  the  certificate  of  appreciation  for 
their assistance in deploying two drifting buoys in the western 
Pacific  Ocean  and  the  South  China  Sea  respectively  to  take 
measurements  of  atmospheric  pressure  and  temperature  over 
the sea surface during the typhoon season in 2018.

3131

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Responsibility

KEY RELATIONSHIPS WITH CUSTOMERS 
AND SUPPLIERS
“Customer  focus”  is  one  of  the  core  values  of  the  Group.  We 
believe  in  long-term,  mutually  beneficial  relationships  with 
our customers and strive to help create value for our customers 
through  collaboration  to  enhance  customer  competitiveness. 
This  is  achieved  by  seeing  things  from  the  customer’s 
perspective, trying to understand their business and anticipate 
their requirements. All employees are trained to be proactive in 
meeting  customers’  expectations  and  responding  with  a  sense 
of urgency.

“We  Take  It  Personally”  is  not  just  a  slogan  at  OOCL,  but 
also  an  attitude  that  all  employees  are  encouraged  to  adopt  in 
dealing  with  our  customers.  Each  year  we  recognise  hundreds 
of  employees  around  the  world  for  displaying  initiative  and 
going beyond the call of duty to meet our customers’ needs.

It is the Group’s policy to maintain a diversified customer base 
across  all  geographical  regions  and  trade  lanes.  A  Key  Risk 
Indicator  (KRI)  of  customer  concentration  was  developed  in 
the year 2017 and is included in the functional risk dashboard 
for  the  Group’s  liner  business  which  is  being  monitored  on  a 
quarterly basis. Different tolerance limits for the KRI are set for 
regions,  trades  and  the  organisation  as  a  whole.  As  at  the  end 
of 2019, OOCL had approximately 27,200 active customers and 
the customer concentration was at an acceptable level.

In  the  Group’s  relationship  with  suppliers,  we  put  special 
emphasis  on  the  supplier  selection  process  in  which  both 
quantitative  and  qualitative  factors  are  considered  objectively, 
independently  and  openly,  according  to  the  Group’s  highest 
ethical  standards.  Pricing  is  not  the  Group’s  primar y 
consideration;  instead,  the  Group  focuses  its  attention  on 
the  suppliers’  quality  service,  safety  and  ethical  standards. 
“Excellence  through  quality”  is  another  core  value  of  the 
Group. While we endeavour to provide the best quality service 
to  our  customers  by  setting  high  standards  for  ourselves,  we 
demand the same high standards from our suppliers. It is also 
the  Group’s  policy  to  maintain  a  diversified  supplier  base 
across all geographical regions.

32

In  2017,  the  Group  developed  supplier  management  KRIs 
to  monitor  supplier  concentration  in  different  regions  and 
poor  supplier  services.  Cases  of  supplier  service  failure  were 
shared  among  employees  to  alert  them  to  the  importance  of 
communicating  our  expectations  to  the  suppliers  and  taking 
the  right  remedial  mitigating  actions.  As  at  the  end  of  2019, 
OOCL  had  approximately  18,300  active  suppliers  and  the 
supplier concentration was at an acceptable level.

EMPLOYEE INFORMATION
As  a  responsible  corporate  citizen  employing  the  highest 
standards  of  business  ethics  in  all  that  it  does,  the  Group 
understands  that  the  process  begins  with  the  well  treatment 
of  its  employees.  As  a  successful  corporation,  the  Group 
appreciates  that  its  success,  growth  and  performance  are 
attributable  to  the  skills,  dedication  and  teamwork  of  its 
employees. It regards people as its greatest asset and takes good 
care of them.

In  the  spirit  of  mutual  respect,  the  Group  is  an  equal 
opportunity  employer  with  a  clearly  defined  policy,  covering 
areas  such  as  treating  all  employees  with  fairness  and  dignity, 
promoting  the  corporate  culture  of  encouraging  open  and 
frank  communication  throughout  the  organisation,  investing 
in  its  employees  and  caring  for  their  hopes  and  aspirations 
through  people  development  programs  and  education,  as  well 
as recognising their efforts and achievements.

People  development  remains  a  cornerstone  of  the  corporate 
culture  and  enables  the  effective  operation  of  the  Group’s 
career  development  policy  through  recruitment  and  internal 
promotion.  The  Group  has  channelled  a  great  deal  of  time 
and  effort  into  its  various  people  development  programs  in 
practical  and  experiential  environments  through  job  rotation, 
local  and  overseas  job  assignments,  formal  and  informal 
learning  and  development  opportunities  and  sponsorships  for 
performance enhancement building capacities of employees in 
support  of  their  growth  with  the  Group.  To  further  enhance 
practical training and better HQ/Regional cooperation, efforts 
have been made to initiate more short term cross regional job 
rotations.

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Responsibility

The  Group  employs  an  innovative  approach  to  internal 
communications,  employee  learning  and  people  development. 
The  Group  provides  support  to  its  employees  to  help  them 
deliver what customers need and unleash their potential. Since 
2010,  the  Group  has  utilised  its  intranet,  called  “InfoNet”,  as 
a  learner-centric  platform  for  dissemination  of  company  news 
and  business  updates  while  providing  its  employees  with  a 
tool  to  share  knowledge,  exchange  views  and  formulate  ideas. 
In  2011,  the  Group  adopted  a  wide  range  of  enterprise  level 
collaboration  tools.  In  addition  to  conventional  methods  of 
communication such as email, other tools such as OOCL Wiki 
and  OOCL  Channel,  have  become  very  effective  in  the  global 
sharing  of  information  and  knowledge  as  well  as  facilitating 
collaboration  amongst  colleagues  around  the  world.  They  also 
helped  support  accelerated  learning  by  providing  us  with  the 
means  to  leverage  resources,  ideas  and  hence  solutions.  Since 
2016, we have also implemented the use of the Microsoft Office 
365  cloud-based  information  platform  to  further  our  internal 
communication.

As  at  31st  December  2019,  the  Group  had  10,677  full-time 
employees.  Their  salary  and  benefit  levels  are  maintained  at 
competitive  levels.  Employees  are  rewarded  on  a  performance 
related  basis  within  the  general  policy  and  framework  of 
the  Group’s  salary  and  bonus  schemes  which  are  regularly 
reviewed.  Other  benefits  including  medical  insurance  and 
pension  funds  are  also  provided,  and  social  and  recreational 
activities are organised around the world.

In  the  interest  of  adhering  to  the  highest  ethical  standards  on 
an ongoing basis, the Group has formulated a Code of Conduct 
which serves as a guideline to ensure compliance with all local, 
national and international legal standards. It helps to preclude 
any  offences  under  local,  national  and  international  laws, 
breaches  of  confidentiality  and  non-disclosure  requirements, 
intellectual property rights infringement, as well as conflicts of 
interest,  acts  of  bribery,  corruption  or  political  contribution, 
and  any  other  corporate  misconduct.  The  Group  has  set  up 
procedures  to  identify,  manage  and  control  risks  that  may 
have  an  impact  on  the  business  of  the  Group.  Established 
in  2006,  the  Group’s  “Whistle  Blower  Policy”  is  one  of  the 
Group’s  formalised  procedures  through  which  employees  can 
anonymously  file  reports  or  register  concerns  and  governs 
the  reporting  and  investigation  of  allegations  to  suspected 
improper activities.

The  Group  is  an  equal  opportunity  employer  with  policies 
not  to  discriminate  against  any  employee  or  applicant  for 
employment  on  the  grounds  of  race,  colour,  religion,  creed, 
age,  sex,  disability,  pregnancy,  childbirth  and  related  medical 
condition,  marital  status,  sexual  orientation,  veteran  status 
and  any  other  category  as  guided  by  local  laws  and  legal 
regulations.

3333

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Financial Review

Financial Review

Revenue for 2019 was US$306.1 million 
better than that of 2018, representing  
an increase of 5%.

34

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Analysis of Consolidated Profit and Loss Account

Summary of Group Results

Financial Review

Favourable/

(unfavourable)

US$’000

2019

2018

Change

Operating revenue by activity:

Container Transport and Logistics

Other Activities

6,851,974

26,766

6,546,964

25,691

Group operating revenue

6,878,740

6,572,655

Operating profit by activity:

Container Transport and Logistics

Other Activities

Group operating profit

Finance costs

Share of profits of joint ventures and  

279,281

82,000

361,281

(151,599)

195,998

66,937

262,935

(143,191)

associated companies

14,144

14,324

Profit before taxation

Taxation

223,826

(69,839)

134,068

(58,620)

305,010

1,075

306,085

83,283

15,063

98,346

(8,408)

(180)

89,758

(11,219)

Profit for the year from continuing operations

153,987

75,448

78,539

Profit from discontinued operation  

(excluding profit on disposal of LBCT)

Profit from operations

Profit on disposal of LBCT

41,172

195,159

1,153,634

32,718

108,166

–

8,454

86,993

1,153,634

 %

5%

4%

5%

42%

23%

37%

(6%)

(1%)

67%

(19%)

104%

26%

80%

N/M

Profit attributable to shareholders

1,348,793

108,166

1,240,627

1,147%

Revenue  for  2019  was  US$306.1  million  better  than  that  of  2018,  representing  an  increase  of  5%.  This  increase  in  revenue  is 

attributed to an increase in both higher freight rates and liftings for the core Container Transport and Logistics business. Other 

revenue, amounting to less than 1% of the Group’s revenue for both 2019 and 2018, represented rental income from the Group’s 

investment property, Wall Street Plaza, in New York.

3535

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Container Transport and Logistics

Summary of Operating Results

US$’000

Liftings (TEUs)

Revenue per TEU (US$)

Operating revenue by location from  

continuing operations:
Asia/Australia
North America
Europe

2019

2018

6,954,142

6,696,919

902

890

5,120,052
688,217
1,043,705

4,939,679
670,225
937,060

6,546,964

Operating revenue from continuing operations

6,851,974

Operating costs by items from  

continuing operations:
Cargo costs
Bunker costs
Vessel and voyage costs (excluding Bunker)
Equipment and repositioning costs

(3,270,251)
(839,115)
(1,207,429)
(736,833)

(3,169,113)
(844,390)
(1,053,866)
(777,105)

Operating costs from continuing operations

(6,053,628)

(5,844,474)

Gross profit
Business and administrative expenses
Other income, net

Operating profit from continuing operations

798,346
(564,083)
45,018

279,281

702,490
(525,878)
19,386

195,998

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

4%

1%

4%
3%
11%

5%

(3%)
1%
(15%)
5%

(4%)

14%
(7%)
132%

42%

Change

257,223

12

180,373
17,992
106,645

305,010

(101,138)
5,275
(153,563)
40,272

(209,154)

95,856
(38,205)
25,632

83,283

The Container Transport and Logistics business trades under the “OOCL” name and represents the principal revenue contributor 
to the Group, accounting for over 99% of the Group’s revenue in 2019. Container Transport and Logistics will continue to be the 
core business of the Group in which the majority of the Group’s operating assets will be deployed.

Operating Revenue of Container Transport and Logistics

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

%
6
7

%
5
7

%
4
1

%
0
1

2018

%
5
1

%
0
1

2019

Asia/Australia

North America

Europe

36

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Asia/Australia

Overall revenue from the Asia/Australia area increased from US$4,939.7 million in 2018 to US$5,120.1 million in 2019 as a result 

of increased cargo volumes and improved freight rates. Liftings improved by 3% and revenue per TEU is improved by 2%.

Revenues of the Trans-Pacific eastbound services increased by 1% despite a drop in 3% in liftings, which resulted in a 4% increase 

in  Revenue  per  TEU.  The  westbound  legs  of  the  Asia/Northern  Europe  services  recorded  a  12%  growth  in  volumes  amid  a  5% 

drop  in  rates.  Intra-Asia  achieved  a  rise  of  3%  in  liftings  and  a  7%  increase  in  rates.  Liftings  of  the  Australia  and  New  Zealand 

services increased by 3% despite a 5% reduction in New Zealand liftings and a 3% cut in loadable capacity.

North America

Revenue increased by 3% or US$18.0 million for this area in 2019 as well as a slight increase of 1% in liftings resulting in a 1% 

increase in freight rates on overall level.

Westbound  liftings  of  the  North  America  West  Coast/Asia  service  and  the  US  East  Coast/Asia  service  via  the  Panama  Canal 

decreased by 3% compared with last year but changes in revenues remained flat. The eastbound Canada/Northern Europe and US 

East Coast/Northern Europe services recorded a 8% increase in volumes, and a 2% increase in revenue.

Europe

Overall revenue for this area was up by US$106.6 million in 2019, recording an 11% revenue increase. The eastbound leg of the 

Northern  Europe/Asia  services  recorded  a  2%  fall  in  revenue  in  2019  while  the  westbound  trades  of  the  Trans-Atlantic  routes 

showed a 22% increase. Intra-Europe market showed remarkable revenue growth of 24%.

The  eastbound  leg  of  the  Asia/Europe  Central  services  saw  a  13%  increase  in  volume  in  2019  at  the  expenses  of  a  14%  drop  in 

freight rates. Liftings for the westbound sectors to North America increased by 15% compared to 2018 while the average revenue 

per TEU was higher from last year.

3737

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Financial Review

Revenue per TEU by Services

US$

1,400 

1,200 

1,000 

800 

600 

400 

Q1 2018

Q2 2018

Q3 2018

Q4 2018

Q1 2019

Q2 2019

Q3 2019

Q4 2019

Trans-Pacific

Asia-Europe

Trans-Atlantic

Intra-Asia/Australia

All Trades

Operating Costs

The principal operating costs of the container transport business, including cargo costs, vessel costs, voyage costs, equipment and 
repositioning costs, increased from 2018 mainly as a result of higher liftings and the surge in cargo, vessel and voyage costs.

Cargo  costs  mainly  consist  of  terminal  charges,  inland  transportation  costs,  commission  and  brokerage,  cargo  assessment  and 
freight tax, all of which are largely paid in the local currencies of the areas in which the activities take place. Cargo cost increased 
by 3% against 2018 level, approximating with lifting growth.

Voyage costs comprise mainly bunker costs, port charges, canal dues, cargo claims and insurance. Bunker costs increased from an 
average of US$436 per ton in 2018 to an average of US$442 per ton in 2019. However, the increase in unit cost is outweighed by 
the decrease in bunker consumption, resulting in a slight decrease in bunker costs by 1% for the year.

Vessel costs include the operating costs and depreciation charges relating to the OOCL fleet as well as the net charter hire and slot 
hire expenses incurred in order to maintain the scheduled service levels. The total operating capacity grew slightly from 701,463 
TEU as at the end of 2018 to 733,580 TEU at the year end in 2019 as the total number of vessels operated by OOCL, both owned 
and chartered-in, increased from 101 to 104.

During  2019,  the  increase  in  vessel  and  voyage  costs  was  mainly  due  to  the  increase  in  slot  hire  expenses  for  the  expansion  of 
services. As a result, total vessel and voyage costs, other than bunker costs, for 2019 increased by 15% as compared with 2018.

Equipment  costs  mainly  represent  maintenance  and  repair  costs,  rental  payments,  depot  expenses  and  depreciation  charges 
relating  to  the  fleet  of  containers  equipment,  while  repositioning  costs  arise  mainly  from  the  relocation  of  empty  containers 
from  areas  of  low  activity  to  high  demand  regions.  The  container  fleet  size  increased  in  2019  while  the  total  equipment  and 
repositioning costs decreased by 5%. It was mainly due to cost saving arising from the equipment pool arrangement with COSCO 
SHIPPING Lines.

38

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Financial Review

Operating costs

2019

2018

12%

13%

20%

18%

54%

54%

14%

15%

Cargo costs

Bunker costs

Vessel and voyage costs
(excluding bunker)

Equipment and 
repositioning costs

Business and Administrative Expenses

Business  and  administrative  expenses  largely  comprise  staff  costs,  office  expenses,  selling  and  marketing  costs,  professional  and 

information  system  expenses.  Business  and  administrative  expenses  increased  by  US$38.2  million,  or  7%  when  compared  with 

2018 which was mainly attributable to the increase in staff cost and computer software expenses.

Other income, net

Other  income,  net,  comprising  principally  net  foreign  exchange  differences,  net  gain  or  loss  on  the  disposal  of  assets,  interest 

income from banks and other non-operating gains/losses. Net income for 2019 increased by US$25.6 million when compared with 

2018 mainly due to increase in interest income from banks.

3939

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Financial Review

Other Activities

Summary of Operating Results

US$’000

Rental income
Operating costs

Gross profit
Investment income
Interest income
Income from investment in Hui Xian
Fair value (loss)/gain from an  

investment property

Others

Operating profit

2019

26,766
(15,573)

11,193
40,959
26,838
9,143

(703)
(5,430)

82,000

2018

25,691
(15,365)

10,326
2,457
24,025
23,380

39,500
(32,751)

66,937

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

4%
(1%)

8%
1,567%
12%
(61%)

N/M
83%

23%

Change

1,075
(208)

867
38,502
2,813
(14,237)

(40,203)
27,321

15,063

The  Group  owns  an  approximately  600,000  sq  ft  office  and  commercial  property,  Wall  Street  Plaza,  located  at  88  Pine  Street, 
New  York,  USA,  an  area  popularly  referred  to  as  the  “Wall  Street  area”.  The  building  was  constructed  in  1972  and  is  operated 
as  a  multi-tenanted  building.  Approximately  8,656  sq  ft  is  occupied  by  Group  companies.  The  Group  also  invests  funds  surplus 
to operations in cash and bank deposit and, on a longer term basis, in equity and bond portfolios. The Group also owns certain 
interests in Hui Xian Holdings Ltd and Hui Xian REIT.

The operating profit from Other Activities for 2019 was US$15.1 million higher than that of 2018 mainly as a result of fair value 
gain on portfolio investments and reduction in one-off professional fees, partly offset by the decrease in fair value gain from an 
investment property and reduction in income from investment in Hui Xian.

Rental Income

Rental income from Wall Street Plaza was US$1.1 million higher than that of last year, with an occupancy rate of 89% as at the end 
of 2019.

Investment Income

Investment  activities  recorded  a  profit  of  US$41.0  million  for  the  year  compared  with  US$2.5  million  in  2018.  Interest  income 
from bond investments amounted to US$21.2 million for 2019 which was US$2.1 million lower than last year. Fair value gain of 
US$16.9 million in 2019 as compared with a net loss of US$19.1 million for 2018.

US$’000

25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
0
(5,000)
(10,000)
(15,000)
(20,000)
(25,000)

Investment Income By Activities

6
2
2
,
3
2

0
7
1
,
1
2

8
2
1
,
9
1

)
9
5
7
,
1
2
(

0
9
9

1
6
6

Interest income from
investments

Impairment,
fair value and
disposal (loss)/gain

2018

2019 

Dividend income

40

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Interest Income

Interest income in 2019 was US$2.8 million more than that of 2018 as a result of rising interest rates.

Income from Investment in Hui Xian

Hui Xian Holdings Ltd declared and paid cash dividends in 2019, of which the Group shared a total of US$7.9 million. The Group 
also  received  US$1.1  million  distribution  from  its  holdings  of  Hui  Xian  REIT  to  add  up  a  total  of  US$9.0  million  income  from 
investment in Hui Xian. In 2018, a total of US$22.6 million from Hui Xian Holdings Ltd, in terms of cash dividends and dividends 
in specie, and a US$1.2 million distribution from Hui Xian REIT were received.

Fair Value (Loss)/Gain on Investment Property

As at 31st December 2019, the Group’s investment property, Wall Street Plaza, was valued at US$310.0 million by an independent 
valuer which remained at the same level as at 2018 year end. In 2018, the property recorded a valuation gain of US$40.0 million 
which was offset against capital improvements of US$0.5 million to result in a net fair value gain of US$39.5 million.

Others

Other  items  include  business  and  administration  expenses  for  property  management,  exchange  differences  and  other 
miscellaneous items. The decrease was mainly due to the reduction in one-off professional fees.

Finance Costs

The  Group  incurs  interest  expenses  on  bank  loans  and  lease  liabilities.  These  long-term  borrowings  are  mostly  secured  against 
vessels and containers owned by the Group. Finance costs also include fees on lease administration.

Finance  costs  increased  by  US$8.4  million  as  compared  with  2018,  mainly  due  to  the  additional  finance  costs  arising  from  the 
lease liabilities recognised upon the first adoption of Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standard 16 (“HKFRS 16”) “Leases”.

Share of Profits of Joint Ventures and Associated Companies

Share  of  profits  of  joint  ventures  and  associated  companies  mainly  represents  the  Group’s  investments  in  a  20%  stake  in  two 
terminals in Tianjin and Ningbo. Other investments include depot, agency and supply chain management company. The share of 
US$14.1 million profit from joint ventures and associated companies in 2019 was US$0.2 million less than that of 2018.

Profit before Taxation

Pre-tax profit for the year was US$223.8 million compared with last year of US$134.1 million. There was US$83.3 million increase 
in  earnings  by  the  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  segment  and  the  earnings  by  the  Other  Activities  segment  increased  by 
US$15.1 million due to fair value gain on portfolio investments. Fair value loss from an investment property and the increase in 
finance cost partly offset current year operating profit.

Earnings before Interest and Tax

EBIT  increased  from  US$313.7  million  in  2018  to  US$452.3  million  in  2019  and  EBIT  margin  improved  from  4.7%  in  2018  to 
6.5% in 2019. The improvement in freight rates, coupled with the lifting growth helped offsetting the negative impact from rising 
cargo, vessel and voyage costs, leading to increased profitability for the Group in 2019.

4141

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Financial Review

Discontinued Operation

On 6th July 2018, the Group entered into the National Security Agreement pursuant to which the Group and COSCO SHIPPING 
Holdings  Co.,  Ltd.  committed  to  divest  the  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  (“U.S.  Terminal  Business”).  The  Sale  and  Purchase 
Agreement (“SPA”) was entered on 29th April 2019 and the sale was completed on 24th October 2019.

On  29th  April  2019,  the  Group  entered  into  the  SPA  with  Olivia  Holdings,  LLC  relating  to  the  sale  and  purchase  of  the 
entire  interests  in  LBCT  LLC,  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary  of  the  Company  which  operates  the  U.S.  Terminal  Business,  for  the 
consideration of US$1,780.0 million (subject to certain post-completion adjustments). 

The transaction was completed on 24th October 2019. After transaction costs and taxation, the net profit arising on the disposal 
was approximately US$1,153.6 million which has been recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account for the year ended 
31st December 2019.

The  U.S.  Terminal  Business  is  accounted  for  as  discontinued  operation  under  HKFRS  5  “Non-current  Assets  Held  for  Sale  and 
Discontinued  Operations”.  Details  of  the  transaction  and  analysis  of  the  results,  cash  flows,  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  U.S. 
Terminal Business are presented in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.

Capital Expenditure

US$’000

Container vessels and capitalised dry-docking costs

Vessels under construction

Containers and chassis

Terminal equipment and improvement

Terminal leases

Land and buildings

Computer software

Investment property

Others

2019

24,590

–

216,469

17,157

582

59,254

21,831

703

46,606

2018

30,794

31,935

301,646

23,745

–

3

1,724

500

22,554

Increase/

(decrease)

 %

(20%)

N/M

(28%)

(28%)

N/M

N/M

1,166%

41%

107%

Change

(6,204)

(31,935)

(85,177)

(6,588)

582

59,251

20,107

203

24,052

387,192

412,901

(25,709)

(6%)

Capital expenditure decreased from US$412.9 million in 2018 to US$387.2 million in 2019, mainly due to the decrease in capital 
outlays on container equipment.

Vessels

No newbuilding order was placed during the year. On 10th March 2020, the Group entered into contracts to construct five units of 
23,000 TEU container vessels at a consideration of US$778.4 million which are expected to deliver in year 2023.

42

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Review of Consolidated Balance Sheet
Summary of Consolidated Balance Sheet

US$’000
Property, plant and equipment
Prepayments of lease premiums
Right-of-use assets
Investment property
Joint ventures and associated companies
Intangible assets
Liquid assets
Cash and bank balances set aside for  

special dividend payment

Accounts receivable and other assets
Assets held for sale
Other non-current assets

TOTAL ASSETS
Accounts payable and other liabilities
Dividend payable
Current taxation

TOTAL ASSETS LESS TRADING LIABILITIES
Long-term borrowings
Current portion of long-term borrowings
Lease liabilities

Total debt
Liabilities directly associated with  
assets classified as held for sale

Deferred liabilities
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

CAPITAL EMPLOYED
Debt to equity ratio
Net debt to equity ratio
Accounts payable as a % of revenue
Accounts receivable as a % of revenue
% return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
% return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity 

(excluding profit on disposal of LBCT)
Net asset value per ordinary share (US$)
Liquid assets per ordinary share (US$)
Share price at 31st December (US$)
Price to book ratio based on share price  

at 31st December

2019

3,162,424
–
2,830,674
310,000
147,828
30,824
2,858,824

1,001,269
805,568
–
54,454

11,201,865
(1,072,605)
(1,001,269)
(47,522)

9,080,469
1,033,141
394,996
2,562,952

2018

5,880,057
7,452
–
310,000
148,616
32,428
2,246,803

–
799,464
472,732
156,308

10,053,860
(862,405)
–
(7,494)

9,183,961
3,695,834
501,922
–

Change

(2,717,633)
(7,452)
2,830,674
–
(788)
(1,604)
612,021

1,001,269
6,104
(472,732)
(101,854)

1,148,005
(210,200)
(1,001,269)
(40,028)

(103,492)
(2,662,693)
(106,926)
2,562,952

3,991,089

4,197,756

(206,667)

(141,048)
51,946
192,277

(103,492)

–
161,973
4,927,407

9,080,469
0.81
0.23
15.04
9.54
27.92

4.04
7.87
4.57
4.85

0.62

141,048
110,027
4,735,130

9,183,961
0.89
0.41
12.75
9.65
2.30

2.30
7.57
3.59
6.79

0.90

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(46%)
N/M
N/M
0%
(1%)
(5%)
27%

N/M
1%
N/M
(65%)

11%
24%
N/M
534%

(1%)
(72%)
(21%)
N/M

(5%)

N/M
47%
4%

(1%)

4343

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Property, Plant and Equipment, Prepayments of Lease Premiums and Right-of-Use Assets

US$’000

Container vessels and capitalised dry-docking costs
Containers and chassis
Terminal equipment and improvement
Terminal leases
Land and buildings
Prepayments of lease premiums
Others

2019

4,129,481
1,587,991
23,432
18,708
161,161
–
72,325

2018

4,275,875
1,471,264
51,346
–
30,502
7,452
51,070

Change

(146,394)
116,727
(27,914)
18,708
130,659
(7,452)
21,255

5,993,098

5,887,509

105,589

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(3%)
8%
(54%)
N/M
428%
N/M
42%

2%

Container Transport and Logistics remains the core business of the Group and the one in which majority of property, plant and 
equipment and right-of-use assets are deployed. These assets largely comprise container vessels, containers, terminal equipment, 
property and computer equipment.

The increase in property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets in 2019 was mainly due to the addition of containers and 
capitalisation of long-term operating lease of land and buildings.

Investment Property

Investment  property  represents  the  Group’s  commercial  building,  Wall  Street  Plaza,  in  New  York.  The  building  was  valued  at 
US$310.0 million as at the end of 2019 by an independent valuer (2018: US$310.0 million).

Joint Ventures and Associated Companies

US$’000

Joint ventures
Associated companies

2019

10,163
137,665

147,828

2018

8,940
139,676

148,616

Change

1,223
(2,011)

(788)

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

14%
(1%)

(1%)

The decrease in the investment value in joint ventures and associated companies for 2019 was a result of dividends received partly 
offset by the share of results from joint ventures and associated companies.

Liquid Assets

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities
Cash and portfolio funds
Investments at amortised cost
Less: cash and bank balances set aside for  
special dividend payment

2019

2,652,851
18,245
997,691
191,306

2018

Change

585,199
54,361
1,384,284
222,959

2,067,652
(36,116)
(386,593)
(31,653)

(1,001,269)

–

(1,001,269)

Total liquid assets

2,858,824

2,246,803

612,021

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

353%
(66%)
(28%)
(14%)

N/M

27%

44

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

The  Group  adopts  a  central  treasury  system  under  which  a  part  of  the  funds  surplus  to  planned  requirements  is  set  aside  for 
portfolio investments in fixed income bonds or equities managed by in-house managers under guidelines imposed by the Board.

The Group’s investment portfolios are largely invested in US dollar bonds, short-term cash deposits or similar instruments, and 
listed equities. No investments are made in derivative investment products.

Investments at amortised cost are entirely bonds intended to be held until maturity.

The Group’s total liquid assets at the end of 2018 and 2019 are further analysed as follows:

US$’000

Cash and bank balances
Restricted bank balances
Portfolio investments
Investments at amortised cost
Less: cash and bank balances set aside for  
special dividend payment

2019

3,455,570
60,294
152,923
191,306

2018

Change

1,584,465
61,122
378,257
222,959

1,871,105
(828)
(225,334)
(31,653)

(1,001,269)

–

(1,001,269)

Total liquid assets

2,858,824

2,246,803

612,021

Accounts Receivable and Other Assets

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities

2019

764,731
40,837

805,568

2018

752,806
46,658

799,464

Change

11,925
(5,821)

6,104

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

118%
(1%)
(60%)
(14%)

N/M

27%

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

2%
(12%)

1%

Accounts receivable and other assets for Container Transport and Logistics increased by US$11.9 million to US$764.7 million at 
the end of 2019. The increase was mainly attributable to the higher revenue achieved for the year.

Ageing Analysis of Trade Receivables

2019

21%

2018

19%

3%

4%

76%

77%

Below 1 month

2-3 months

Over 3 months

4545

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Accounts Payable and Other Liabilities

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities

2019

1,065,256
7,349

1,072,605

2018

847,083
15,322

862,405

Change

218,173
(7,973)

210,200

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

26%
(52%)

24%

Accounts payable and other liabilities at the end of 2019 were US$210.2 million higher than that of 2018, mainly due to increase in 
cost provisions to cope with the growth in business volume.

Ageing Analysis of Trade Payables

2019

2018

24%

5%

39%

4%

71%

57%

Below 1 month

2-3 months

Over 3 months

Total Debt

US$’000

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations
Lease liabilities

2019

1,428,137
–
2,562,952

2018

Change

1,758,977
2,438,779
–

(330,840)
(2,438,779)
2,562,952

3,991,089

4,197,756

(206,667)

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(19%)
N/M
N/M

(5%)

On  adoption  of  HKFRS  16,  the  Group  recognised  lease  liabilities  in  relation  to  leases  which  had  previously  been  classified 
as  ‘operating  leases’  under  the  principles  of  HKAS  17  “Leases”.  For  leases  previously  classified  as  finance  leases,  the  Group 
recognised  the  carrying  amount  of  the  finance  lease  obligations  immediately  before  transition  as  the  carrying  amount  of  the 
lease  liabilities  at  the  date  of  initial  application.  Details  on  the  first  adoption  of  HKFRS  16  are  set  out  in  Notes  2.1(b)  to  the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Total  debt  decreased  by  US$206.7  million  compared  with  2018,  mainly  as  a  result  of  net  repayment  of  bank  loans  and  lease 
liabilities during the year, being partly offset with the recognition of lease liabilities under HKFRS 16 as mentioned above.

Total scheduled debt repayment between 2020 and 2024 is US$2,779.0 million, being equivalent to 70% of the total outstanding 
debt as at 31st December 2019. Details of the repayment profile of the Group’s borrowings and lease liabilities are set out in Notes 
40 and 41 to the Consolidated Financial Statements respectively.

46

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Debt Profile
Of  the  total  US$3,991.1  million  debt  outstanding  at  the  end  of  2019,  US$1,088.9  million  was  fixed-rate  debt  and  the  remaining 
US$2,902.2  million  was  subject  to  floating  interest  rates  at  various  competitive  spreads  over  one-month  to  six-month  LIBOR 
(or equivalent) and mainly related to the financing of vessels and container equipment. The Group’s average cost of debt at 31st 
December 2019 was 3.1% (2018: 3.7%).

Net Debt to Equity Ratio

This ratio changed to 0.23: 1 at the end of 2019 from 0.41: 1 at the end of 2018 mainly due to decrease in net debts and increase 
in ordinary shareholders’ equity in 2019. This ratio will be closely monitored in the light of business forecasts. It is the Group’s 
objective to keep this key ratio below a threshold of 1.0.

Net Debt to Equity Ratio

Ratio

0.40

0.20

0.00

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

Shareholders’ Equity

As  at  31st  December  2019,  the  Company  had  625,793,297  shares  in  issue,  consisting  entirely  of  ordinary  shares.  With  profit 
recorded  for  the  year  netted  off  with  special  dividend  declared,  the  Group’s  consolidated  shareholders’  equity  increased  by 
US$192.3 million to US$4,927.4 million as at the end of 2019 with a net asset value per ordinary share of US$7.87 (2018: US$7.57). 
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity is a key measure for the Group’s objective to continuously enhance shareholders’ 
value. Excluding the effect of the one-off profit on disposal of LBCT, this ratio increased to 4.0% in 2019 (2018: 2.3%).

Operating Leases and Commitments

In  addition  to  the  owned  operating  assets  and  long-term  leases,  the  Group  employs  assets  through  short-term  operating  lease 
arrangements  as  detailed  in  Note  47(c)  to  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements.  Assets  under  short-term  operating  lease 
arrangements consist primarily of container vessels.

At  the  end  of  2019,  the  Group  had  outstanding  capital  commitments  amounting  to  US$6.6  million,  representing  mostly  the 
investment in an associated company, the outstanding orders for vessel equipment and leasehold improvement.

4747

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Financial Review

Analysis of Change in Liquid Assets

US$’000

Net inflow from operations

Other inflow:

Interest and investment income
Sale of property, plant and equipment
New financing
Cash from joint ventures and associated companies
Fair value gain on financial assets at fair value 

through profit or loss
Disposal of subsidiaries
Others

Other outflow:

Interest and financing charges paid
Dividends paid to shareholders
Taxation paid
Increase in property, plant and equipment, 
investments, and non-current assets

Loan repayments
Fair value loss on financial assets at fair value  

through profit or loss
Disposal of subsidiaries
Others

Net inflow/(outflow)
Beginning liquid asset balances
Net change in liquid asset balances of  

disposal group classified as held for sale

Cash and bank balances set aside for  

special dividend payment

Changes in exchange rates

Ending liquid asset balances

Represented by:

Unrestricted bank balances and deposits
Restricted bank balances and deposits
Portfolio investments
Investments at amortised cost
Less: cash and bank balances set aside for  
special dividend payment

48

2019

948,131

71,425
26,311
400,455
14,913

17,027
1,709,248
–

2,239,379

(170,123)
(89,859)
(118,404)

(208,958)
(1,036,768)

–
–
(2,430)

2018

597,760

66,373
34,745
475,920
19,852

–
–
13,625

Change

350,371

5,052
(8,434)
(75,465)
(4,939)

17,027
1,709,248
(13,625)

610,515

1,628,864

(129,261)
–
(15,837)

(495,549)
(773,827)

(19,500)
(1,854)
–

(40,862)
(89,859)
(102,567)

286,591
(262,941)

19,500
1,854
(2,430)

(1,626,542)

(1,435,828)

(190,714)

1,560,968
2,246,803

(227,553)
2,534,463

1,788,521
(287,660)

53,733

(53,733)

107,466

(1,001,269)
(1,411)

–
(6,374)

(1,001,269)
4,963

2,858,824

2,246,803

612,021

3,455,570
60,294
152,923
191,306

1,584,465
61,122
378,257
222,959

1,871,105
(828)
(225,334)
(31,653)

(1,001,269)

–

(1,001,269)

2,858,824

2,246,803

612,021

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

59%

8%
(24%)
(16%)
(25%)

N/M
N/M
N/M

267%

(32%)
N/M
(648%)

58%
(34%)

N/M
N/M
N/M

(13%)

N/M
(11%)

N/M

N/M
78%

27%

118%
(1%)
(60%)
(14%)

N/M

27%

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

A  net  inflow  of  US$1,561.0  million  was  recorded  in  2019  compared  with  a  net  outflow  of  US$227.6  million  in  2018.  Operating 

inflow of US$948.1 million for the year was US$350.4 million higher than that of 2018 with improved operating results. Increase 

in  other  inflow  was  mainly  due  to  the  net  proceed  of  US$1,709.2  million  generated  from  the  disposal  of  the  U.S.  Terminal 

Business. The capital payments in 2019 mainly reflected the outlays for the acquisition of container. The net increase in financing 

cash  outflow  was  mainly  due  to  the  increase  in  loan  repayments  during  the  year.  Total  liquid  asset  balances  increased  to 

US$2,858.8 million at the end of 2019, against US$2,246.8 million in 2018.

Liquidity

As  at  31st  December  2019,  the  Group  had  total  liquid  asset  balances  of  US$2,858.8  million  compared  with  debt  obligations  of 

US$648.9 million repayable in 2020. Total current assets at the end of 2019 amounted to US$4,445.8 million against total current 

liabilities of US$2,770.3 million. The Group’s shareholders’ equity contains no loan capital. The Group from time to time prepares 

and updates cashflow forecasts for asset acquisitions, to serve project development requirements, as well as working capital needs, 

from  time  to  time  with  the  objective  of  maintaining  a  proper  balance  between  a  conservative  liquidity  level  and  an  effective 

investment of surplus funds.

4949

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Board of Directors

Board of Directors

Mr. Xu Lirong, aged 62, has been an Executive Director and the Chairman 
of the Board of the Company, and the chairman of the Executive Committee 
and  the  Nomination  Committee  of  the  Company  since  3rd  August  2018. 
He  had  been  a  director,  the  chairman  of  the  board  and  a  member  of 
the  Executive  Committee  of  Orient  Overseas  Container  Line  Limited 
(“OOCLL”),  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  the  Company,  from  3rd  August 
2018  to  28th  February  2020.  Mr.  Xu  holds  a  master  degree  in  Business 
Administration from Shanghai Maritime University and is a senior engineer. 
Mr.  Xu  is  currently  the  chairman  of  the  board  and  the  Party  Secretary  of 
China  COSCO  SHIPPING  Corporation  Limited  (“COSCO  SHIPPING”), 
and  an  executive  director  and  the  chairman  of  the  board  of  COSCO 
SHIPPING  Holdings  Co.,  Ltd.  (“COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings”,  a  company 
listed in both Shanghai and Hong Kong).

Mr.  Xu  started  his  career  in  March  1975,  and  had  been  the  deputy  head 
of  ship  management  department,  the  assistant  to  the  general  manager, 
the  deputy  general  manager  and  the  general  manager  of  Shanghai  Ocean 
Shipping  Co.,  Ltd.  (“Shanghai  Ocean  Shipping”),  the  deputy  manager,  the 
manager  and  the  Party  Secretary  of  COSCO  Shanghai  Freight  Forwarding 
Company,  the  president  and  the  Party  Secretary  of  Shanghai  Shipping 
Exchange,  the  general  manager,  the  Party  Committee  member  and  the 
Deputy  Party  Secretary  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines  Co.,  Ltd.  (“COSCO 
SHIPPING  Lines”),  the  deputy  general  manager,  the  Party  Committee 
member  and  the  Deputy  Party  Secretary  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings, 
the  vice  president,  the  chairman  of  labour  union  and  the  Party  Committee 
member  of  China  Ocean  Shipping  Company  Limited  (“China  Ocean 
Shipping”), the general manager, the director, the chairman of the board, the 
Party Committee member and the Party Secretary of China Shipping Group 
Company Limited.

Xu Lirong

Mr.  Wang  Haimin,  aged  47,  has  been  an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company  and  a 
member  of  the  Executive  Committee  of  the  Company  since  3rd  August  2018,  and  the 
Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the  Company,  and  the  chairman  of  the  Inside  Information 
Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company  since  18th  September  2019.  He 
had  been  a  director,  the  co-Chief  Executive  Officer  and  a  member  of  the  Executive 
Committee  of  OOCLL  from  3rd  August  2018  to  17th  September  2019.  Mr.  Wang 
graduated from Shanghai Maritime University, major in Transport Economics, and holds 
a  master  degree  in  Business  Administration  from  Fudan  University  and  is  an  engineer. 
Mr.  Wang  is  currently  the  executive  vice  president  and  the  Party  Committee  member  of 
COSCO SHIPPING, the vice chairman of the board and an executive director of COSCO 
SHIPPING  Holdings  (a  company  listed  in  both  Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong),  a  director  of 
Faulkner  Global  Holdings  Limited  and  Shanghai  International  Port  (Group)  Co.,  Ltd.  (a 
company listed in Shanghai).

Mr.  Wang  had  been  the  head  of  planning  and  cooperation  department  of  the  strategic 
planning  division,  the  deputy  general  manager  of  the  corporation  planning  division  and 
the  general  manager  of  the  strategy  and  development  division  of  COSCO  SHIPPING 
Lines,  the  general  manager  of  the  transportation  division  of  China  Ocean  Shipping, 
the  deputy  general  manager  and  a  non-executive  director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Ports 
Limited (“COSCO SHIPPING Ports”), the deputy general manager, the general manager, 
a  director  and  the  Deputy  Party  Secretary  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines,  and  the  deputy 
general  manager,  the  general  manager  and  the  Deputy  Party  Secretary  of  COSCO 
SHIPPING Holdings. Mr. Wang has over 20 years of experience in corporate management 
in the shipping industry. He has extensive experience in container shipping, operation of 
terminal and enterprise management.

Wang Haimin

50

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Mr. Yang Zhijian, aged 55, has been an Executive Director of the Company and a member 
of  the  Executive  Committee,  the  Finance  Committee,  the  Compliance  Committee,  the 
Inside  Information  Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company  since  18th 
September  2019.  He  has  been  a  director,  the  co-Chief  Executive  Officer  and  a  member 
of  the  Executive  Committee  of  OOCLL  since  18th  September  2019.  Mr.  Yang  has  been 
re-designated  from  the  co-Chief  Executive  Officer  to  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  of 
OOCLL  since  1st  January  2020  and  appointed  as  the  chairman  of  the  board  and  the 
Executive  Committee  of  OOCLL  since  28th  February  2020.  He  is  also  a  director  of 
certain  subsidiaries  of  the  Company.  Mr.  Yang  holds  an  executive  master  degree  in 
Business  Administration  from  Shanghai  Maritime  University  and  is  an  economist.  Mr. 
Yang is currently the employee representative director of COSCO SHIPPING, the general 
manager,  the  executive  director  and  the  Deputy  Party  Secretary  of  COSCO  SHIPPING 
Holdings (a company listed in both Shanghai and Hong Kong), the general manager, the 
chairman of the board and the Deputy Party Secretary of COSCO SHIPPING Lines.

Mr. Yang had been the head of ocean transportation division of Shanghai Ocean Shipping, 
the  head  of  corporate  planning  division  and  the  deputy  general  manager  of  marketing 
department of COSCO SHIPPING Lines, the deputy general manager of Hong Kong Ming 
Wah Shipping Co., Ltd., the general manager of the trade service division and the general 
manager  of  the  Asia-Pacific  trade  division  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines,  the  general 
manager  and  the  Deputy  Party  Secretary  of  Shanghai  PANASIA  Shipping  Company 
Limited, an assistant to the general manager and the deputy general manager of COSCO 
SHIPPING  Logistics  Co.,  Ltd.,  the  deputy  general  manager,  the  general  manager  and 
the  Deputy  Party  Secretary  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Bulk  Co.,  Ltd.  Mr.  Yang  has  over  30 
years  of  experience  in  the  maritime  industry  and  has  extensive  experience  in  container 
shipping, logistics and bulk shipping.

Mr.  Feng  Boming,  aged  50,  has  been  an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company  and 
a  member  of  the  Executive  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee,  the  Inside 
Information  Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company  since  18th  September 
2019.  Mr.  Feng  holds  a  master  degree  in  Business  Administration  from  The  University 
of  Hong  Kong  and  is  an  economist.  Mr.  Feng  is  currently  the  chairman  of  the  board  of 
directors  and  an  executive  director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Ports  (a  company  listed  in 
Hong  Kong),  an  executive  director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  (a  company  listed 
in  both  Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong),  a  non-executive  director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING 
Development Co., Ltd., COSCO SHIPPING Energy Transportation Co., Ltd. and COSCO 
SHIPPING International (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd. (all companies are listed in Hong Kong) 
and Piraeus Port Authority S.A. (a company listed in Athens), and a director of COSCO 
SHIPPING  (Hong  Kong)  Co.,  Limited,  COSCO  SHIPPING  Bulk  Co.,  Ltd.,  COSCO 
SHIPPING Financial Holding Co., Ltd. and certain subsidiaries of COSCO SHIPPING.

Mr.  Feng  had  been  the  general  manager  of  the  strategic  and  corporate  management 
department  of  COSCO  SHIPPING,  the  manager  of  the  commercial  section  of  the 
ministry of trade protection of COSCO SHIPPING Lines, the general manager of COSCO 
Container  Hong  Kong  Mercury  Co.,  Ltd.,  the  general  manager  of  the  management  and 
administration  department  of  COSCO  Holdings  (Hong  Kong)  Limited,  the  general 
manager  of  COSCO  International  Freight  (Wuhan)  Co.,  Ltd.  and  COSCO  Logistics 
(Wuhan)  Co.,  Ltd.,  the  director  of  the  strategic  management  implementation  office  of 
China  Ocean  Shipping  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings,  and  a  non-executive  director 
of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings.  Mr.  Feng  has  over  20  years’  working  experience  in 
the  shipping  industry.  He  has  extensive  experience  in  port  management  and  operation, 
enterprise  strategy  management,  business  management,  container  shipping  and 
management.

Board of Directors

Yang Zhijian

Feng Boming

5151

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew,  aged  55,  has  been  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the 
Company  since  1st  January  2020  and  is  a  member  of  the  Finance  Committee,  the 
Inside  Information  Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company.  He  has  been 
an  advisor  to  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  OOCLL  since  1st  January  2020.  Mr.  Tung 
holds  a  bachelor  degree  from  Princeton  University  and  a  master  degree  in  Business 
Administration  from  Stanford  University  in  the  USA.  He  is  currently  an  independent 
non-executive  director  of  Cathay  Pacific  Airways  Limited  (a  company  listed  in  Hong 
Kong)  and  Standard  Chartered  Bank  (Hong  Kong)  Limited.  He  is  also  a  member  of 
the  Hong  Kong  Logistics  Development  Council  and  a  member  of  the  Chief  Executive’s 
Council of Advisers on Innovation and Strategic Development.

Mr.  Tung  was  an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company  from  2nd  November  2011  to  31st 
December 2019. He was a director and a member of the Executive Committee of OOCLL 
from March 2006 to 31st December 2019. He was the Chief Executive Officer and Senior 
Managing Director of OOCLL from 1st July 2012 to 2nd August 2018, and had been re-
designated as the co-Chief Executive Officer of OOCLL since 3rd August 2018 until 31st 
December 2019. He was also a director of various subsidiaries of the Company. Between 
1993  and  1998,  he  served  the  Group  in  various  capacities  including  director  of  Reefer 
Trade of OOCLL. The last position Mr. Tung held in Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Limited 
prior to joining OOCLL in 2006 was the chief operating officer. He was the vice-chairman 
of  the  International  Chamber  of  Commerce  Commission  for  Transport  &  Logistics,  a 
member  of  the  executive  committee  of  Hong  Kong  Shipowners  Association,  a  member 
of the Hong Kong Maritime and Port Board and the chairman of the Maritime and Port 
Development Committee.

Mr. Yan Jun, aged 52, has been a Non-Executive Director of the Company and a member 
of the Nomination Committee and the Risk Committee of the Company since 3rd August 
2018.  Mr.  Yan  holds  a  master  degree  in  Business  Management  from  Antai  College  of 
Economics  and  Management  of  Shanghai  Jiaotong  University.  Mr.  Yan  is  currently  the 
Deputy  Party  Secretary,  a  director  and  the  president  of  Shanghai  International  Port 
(Group) Co., Ltd. (“SIPG”) (a company listed in Shanghai).

Mr. Yan had been a Party Committee member of Shanghai Port Container Terminal Co., 
Ltd (“SPCT”); the Branch Party Secretary and the general manager of SPCT, Waigaoqiao 
Terminal  Branch;  the  Party  Secretary  and  the  general  manager  of  SIPG  Zhendong 
Container  Terminal  Branch;  the  Party  Secretary,  a  director  and  the  general  manager  of 
SIPG Jiujiang Port Co., Ltd; the assistant to president, the vice president and the Deputy 
Party Secretary of SIPG.

Board of Directors

Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew

 Yan Jun

52

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Ms.  Wang  Dan,  aged  50,  has  been  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  and  a 
member of the Risk Committee of the Company since 3rd August 2018. Ms. Wang holds a 
master degree in International Finance from Tsinghua University PBC School of Finance 
(formerly the Graduate School of the People’s Bank of China).

Ms.  Wang  is  both  executive  vice  president  of  Silk  Road  Fund  Co.,  Ltd.  (“SRF”)  and 
director of SIBUR Holding (a public joint stock company in Russia with its bonds traded 
at  Moscow  Exchange  and  Irish  Stock  Exchange).  Ms.  Wang  worked  at  the  international 
department  and  the  monetary  policy  department  II  of  the  People’s  Bank  of  China 
(“PBOC”), and also served as an advisor to the executive director for China of PBOC at 
the  International  Monetary  Fund.  Before  joining  SRF,  she  served  as  the  deputy  director-
general of the monetary policy department II of PBOC.

Mr.  Ip  Sing  Chi,  aged  66,  has  been  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  and  a 
member  of  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company  since  3rd  August  2018.  Mr.  Ip  holds  a 
bachelor  of  Arts  degree  from  Coventry  University.  He  is  currently  the  group  managing 
director  of  Hutchison  Port  Holdings  Limited  and  the  chairman  of  Yantian  International 
Container Terminals Limited. He is also an executive director of Hutchison Port Holdings 
Management  Pte.  Limited  (the  trustee-manager  of  Hutchison  Port  Holdings  Trust  listed 
in Singapore), an independent non-executive director, the chairman of the remuneration 
and  appraisal  committee,  a  member  of  the  strategy  committee  and  the  nomination 
committee  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Energy  Transportation  Co.,  Ltd.  (a  company  listed 
in  both  Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong),  an  independent  non-executive  director  of  Piraeus 
Port Authority S.A. (a company listed in Athens), and a non-independent non-executive 
director of Westports Holdings Berhad (a company listed in Malaysia).

Mr. Ip was the founding chairman (in 2000-2001) of the Hong Kong Container Terminal 
Operators Association Limited, and he had been an outside director of Hyundai Merchant 
Marine Co., Ltd. (a company listed in Korea). Mr. Ip has over 35 years of experience in the 
maritime industry.

Board of Directors

Wang Dan

Ip Sing Chi

5353

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Board of Directors

Ms.  Cui  Hongqin,  aged  46,  has  been  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  and  a 
member of the Risk Committee of the Company since 3rd August 2018. Ms. Cui holds a 
bachelor  degree  in  Economics  from  Shanxi  University  of  Economics  and  Management, 
and  is  a  senior  accountant  and  certified  public  accountant.  She  is  currently  the  deputy 
director  of  the  finance  department  of  State  Development  &  Investment  Corp.,  Ltd. 
(“SDIC”),  the  general  manager  and  director  of  Rongshi  International  Holding  Company 
Limited,  SDIC  Leasing  Co.,  Ltd.,  Rongshi  International  Treasury  Management  Company 
Limited and SDIC Leasing of Hainan Co., Ltd., the director of China SDIC International 
Trade  Co.,  Ltd.,  and  a  non-executive  director  of  China  Water  Environment  Group 
Limited.

Ms. Cui held various positions in SDIC, including assistant to the director of the finance 
and  accounts  department,  head  of  the  funds  department,  the  deputy  director  and  the 
business  head  of  the  accounts  department,  and  the  senior  business  manager  of  the 
planning and finance department.

Cui Hongqin

Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  aged  72,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director 
of  the  Company  since  2nd  January  2015.  He  is  the  chairman  of  the  Audit  Committee 
and  the  Remuneration  Committee  and  a  member  of  the  Nomination  Committee,  the 
Finance  Committee,  the  Share  Committee,  the  Risk  Committee  and  the  Independent 
Board  Committee  of  the  Company.  He  was  an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company  from 
1st December 2003 to 30th June 2012, a Non-Executive Director of the Company from 1st 
July 2012 to 1st January 2015 and a consultant of the Company from 1st July 2012 to 31st 
December 2014. Mr. Chow holds a bachelor of Science degree in Chemistry and Physics 
from the University of Hong Kong and a master degree in Business Administration from 
the Chinese University of Hong Kong. He did not hold directorships in any other public 
companies listed in Hong Kong and overseas in the last three years.

Chow Philip Yiu Wah

54

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Dr.  Chung  Shui  Ming  Timpson, GBS, JP,  aged  68,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-
Executive  Director  of  the  Company  and  the  chairman  of  the  Finance  Committee  and  a 
member of the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee of the Company since 
3rd  August  2018.  Dr.  Chung  holds  a  bachelor  of  Science  degree  from  the  University  of 
Hong  Kong,  a  master  degree  in  Business  Administration  from  the  Chinese  University  of 
Hong  Kong  and  a  honorary  doctoral  degree  in  Social  Sciences  from  the  City  University 
of  Hong  Kong.  He  is  a  fellow  member  of  The  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified  Public 
Accountants.

Dr.  Chung  is  currently  an  independent  non-executive  director  of  China  Everbright 
Limited,  China  Overseas  Grand  Oceans  Group  Limited,  China  Unicom  (Hong  Kong) 
Limited,  Glorious  Sun  Enterprises  Limited,  Jinmao  Hotel  and  Jinmao  (China)  Hotel 
Investments and Management Limited, Miramar Hotel and Investment Company, Limited 
(all  companies  are  listed  in  Hong  Kong);  and  China  Railway  Group  Limited  and  Postal 
Savings Bank of China Co., Ltd. (companies listed in both Shanghai and Hong Kong); and 
an external director of COSCO SHIPPING.

Dr.  Chung  had  been  an  audit  supervisor  I  of  Coopers  &  Lybrand,  an  independent 
non-executive  director  of  China  Construction  Bank  Corporation  (a  company  listed  in 
both  Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong),  an  independent  director  of  China  State  Construction 
Engineering  Corporation  Limited  (a  company  listed  in  Shanghai),  an  independent  non-
executive director of Henderson Land Development Company Limited (a company listed 
in Hong Kong), the chairman of China business of Jardine Fleming Holdings Limited and 
the deputy chief executive officer of BOC International Limited.

Dr. Chung is currently a member of the 13th National Committee of the Chinese People’s 
Political  Consultative  Conference  and  a  pro-chancellor  of  the  City  University  of  Hong 
Kong.  He  had  also  served  many  public  organisations,  including  the  chairman  of  the 
Council  of  the  City  University  of  Hong  Kong,  the  chairman  of  the  Hong  Kong  Housing 
Society and a member of the Executive Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region.

Mr.  Yang  Liang  Yee  Philip,  aged  71,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director 
of the Company since 3rd August 2018. He is the chairman of the Share Committee and 
a  member  of  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Nomination  Committee  and  the  Remuneration 
Committee of the Company. Mr. Yang is currently an independent non-executive director 
of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  (a  company  listed  in  both  Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong). 
He  is  a  full  time  arbitrator  in  international  commercial  and  maritime  arbitration,  the 
honorary  chairman  of  Hong  Kong  International  Arbitration  Centre,  the  member  of  the 
international  advisory  board  of  China  International  Economic  and  Trade  Arbitration 
Commission,  the  Asian  International  Arbitration  Centre  in  Malaysia,  the  Korean 
Commercial  Arbitration  Board,  the  General  Committee  of  Singapore  Chamber  of 
Maritime  Arbitration,  and  the  expert  committee  of  China  International  Commercial 
Court of the Supreme People’s Court of China.

Mr. Yang had been the chairman of Hong Kong International Arbitration Centre, the vice 
chairman  of  the  documentary  committee  of  the  Baltic  International  Maritime  Council 
in  Denmark,  the  president  of  Asia-Pacific  Regional  Arbitration  Group,  the  Hong  Kong 
representative  of  ICC  International  Court  of  Arbitration,  the  chairman  of  the  East  Asia 
branch of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators.

Mr.  Yang  has  extensive  experience  in  dealing  with  cases  related  to  international 
commercial,  maritime  and  trade  law  and  is  very  familiar  with  laws  and  practice  in 
such  areas.  He  acts  as  an  arbitrator  in  Hong  Kong,  London,  Singapore,  Malaysia, 
Australia,  Austria,  Korea,  the  USA  and  Mainland  China  and  has  published/issued  over 
600  arbitration  awards  in  the  past  over  30  years  as  a  sole  or  co-arbitrator.  He  has  also 
published many books and articles on international commercial, maritime and trade law 
and  practice.  Mr.  Yang  also  devoted  himself  to  the  educational  activities  in  various  law 
schools  in  Hong  Kong  and  Mainland  China  and  is  a  visiting  professor  in  more  than  ten 
universities.

Board of Directors

Chung Shui Ming Timpson

Yang Liang Yee Philip

5555

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Board of Directors

Ms.  Chen  Ying,  aged  49,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the 
Company  and  a  member  of  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Finance  Committee  and  the 
Share  Committee  of  the  Company  since  3rd  August  2018.  Ms.  Chen  holds  a  master 
degree  in  Business  Administration  from  Fudan  University,  a  master  degree  in  Business 
Administration,  major  in  Finance  from  Maastricht  College  in  the  Netherlands  and 
graduated  from  the  School  of  Finance  of  Renmin  University  of  China.  She  is  a  certified 
public  accountant  in  Australia,  CIMA  (registered  management  accountant)  and  a  senior 
accountant  in  China.  Ms.  Chen  is  an  external  director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines  and 
an independent non-executive director of Pingdingshan Tianan Coal Mining Co., Ltd. (a 
company listed in Shanghai with bonds listed in Hong Kong).

Ms. Chen had been the vice chairman of Shanghai Chongyang Investment Co., Ltd. from 
March 2016 to June 2018. During the period from 1993 to 2016, she had been the deputy 
general  manager  and  the  secretary  of  the  board  of  directors  of  Baoshan  Iron  Steel  Co., 
Ltd, the secretary of the board of directors, the assistant general manager and the deputy 
general manager of the Baosteel Group Co., Ltd.

Chen Ying

Ms.  Chen  has  more  than  twenty  years’  experience  in  financial  management  of  large 
enterprises,  more  than  ten  years’  experience  as  top  executives  in  the  top  500  of  the 
world  companies  and  has  extensive  experience  in  corporate  finance  and  accounting 
management, capital market communication, corporate governance, internal control and 
risk management.

Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung, GBS, JP, aged 61, has been an Independent Non-Executive 
Director  and  a  member  of  the  Audit  Committee  of  the  Company  since  17th  May  2019, 
and a member of the Independent Board Committee of the Company since 23rd August 
2019.  Mr.  So  holds  a  bachelor  of  Arts  degree  in  Economics  from  Carleton  University, 
Canada  and  a  bachelor  degree  in  Law  and  a  master  degree  in  Business  Administration 
from  the  University  of  Ottawa,  Canada.  Mr.  So  has  been  a  member  of  the  Law  Society 
of  Alberta,  Canada  since  June  1985,  a  member  of  the  Law  Society  of  Upper  Canada  in 
November 1988, a member of the Law Society (England and Wales) in January 1989 and 
a  member  of  the  Hong  Kong  Law  Society  in  March  1989.  Since  1984,  Mr.  So  provided 
legal  services  in  Canada.  He  continued  his  legal  practice  upon  returning  to  Hong  Kong 
in  1989  and  has  over  25  years  of  practice  experience  as  a  lawyer.  Mr.  So  is  currently  an 
independent  non-executive  director  of  China  Overseas  Property  Holdings  Limited  (a 
company listed in Hong Kong), Investcorp Holdings B.S.C. (a company listed in Bahrain) 
and Aviva Life Insurance Company Limited, and a consultant in So, Lung and Associates, 
Solicitors.

Mr.  So  was  appointed  as  the  Undersecretary  for  the  Commerce  and  Economic 
Development  of  the  third  term  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  on  1st  June  2008,  the  Secretary  for  the  Commerce  and  Economic  Development 
on  28th  June  2011  and  was  again  appointed  as  the  Secretary  for  the  Commerce  and 
Economic  Development  of  the  fourth  term  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  on  1st  July  2012  until  30th  June  2017.  The  Commerce  and 
Economic Development Bureau is responsible for various policy matters including Hong 
Kong’s external commercial relations, inward investment promotion, intellectual property 
protection,  industry  and  business  support,  tourism,  consumer  protection,  competition, 
information  technology,  telecommunications,  broadcasting,  development  of  innovation 
and  technology  (until  November  2015),  and  film  and  creative  industries  related  issues. 
Mr.  So  had  been  the  vice-chairman  of  the  Democratic  Alliance  for  the  Betterment  and 
Progress  of  Hong  Kong,  a  board  member  of  Hong  Kong  Hospital  Authority,  a  council 
member of Lingnan University, a member of Commission on Strategic Development and a 
member of the District Council of Wong Tai Sin District.

So Gregory Kam Leung

56

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Senior Management

Senior Management

Kenny Ye

Xiang Chen

Mr.  Ye,  aged  56,  has  been  a  Director  of  OOCL  since  June 
2018  and  a  member  of  Executive  Committee  since  November 
2015.  He  was  appointed  Chief  Operating  Officer  of  OOCL  in 
January  2020  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  OOCL  Logistics 
in  November  2015.  He  joined  the  Group  in  1994  and  has 
served the Group in various capacities for 25 years. Following 
his  assignment  in  Shanghai,  he  was  transferred  to  Hong 
Kong  in  2004  and  has  served  the  Group  in  various  capacities, 
including as Director of Asia-Europe Trade, Director of Intra-
Asia  Trade,  Director  of  Corporate  Human  Resources  and 
Administration,  Director  of  Fleet  Management  and  the  Chief 
Operating Officer of OOCL Logistics. Mr. Ye holds a Diploma 
of  Accounting  in  Lixin  Accounting  Institute  and  a  Master  of 
Business Administration from Oklahoma City University.

Ms.  Chen,  aged  56,  has  been  a  Director  and  a  member  of 
Executive  Committee  of  OOCL  and  was  also  appointed  the 
Director  of  Strategy  Coordination  since  August  2018.  She 
started  her  career  in  1985  and  served  successively  as  Deputy 
Manager,  Manager,  Deputy  General  Manager  of  Marketing 
Division,  General  Manager  of  Business  and  Process  System 
Division  of  COSCO  Container  Lines  Co.,  Ltd.  She  was  a 
Deputy  Managing  Director  of  COSCO  Container  Lines  Co., 
Ltd.  from  2006  to  2016,  and  has  been  the  Deputy  Managing 
Director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines  since  2016.  Ms.  Chen 
graduated  from  Shanghai  Maritime  University,  majoring  in 
Transportation  and  Management.  She  has  a  Master’s  degree 
and the qualification of Senior Economist.

Erxin Yao

Mingwen Zhang

Mr.  Yao,  aged  63,  has  been  a  Director  and  a  member  of 
Executive  Committee  of  OOCL  since  January  2010,  and  the 
Director  of  Corporate  Operations,  Corporate  Marketing  and 
Regions  Management  since  April  2019  and  also  of  Network 
Control  Center  since  November  2019.  He  joined  the  Group 
in  1993  and  has  served  the  Group  in  various  capacities  for 
26  years,  including  as  Executive  Vice-President  and  Head 
of  Corporate  Services  of  OOCL  Logistics  in  Hong  Kong, 
Managing  Director  of  Orient  Overseas  Container  Line 
(China)  Co.,  Ltd.  and  OOCL  Logistics  (China)  Limited 
based  in  Shanghai,  President  of  OOCL  (USA)  Inc.,  Director 
of  Corporate  Planning  and  Corporate  Administration  of 
OOCL. Mr. Yao holds a Bachelor of Arts from Toronto/Fudan 
University joint program and a Master of International Affairs 
from Columbia University.

Mr.  Zhang,  aged  41,  has  been  a  Director  and  a  member  of 
Executive  Committee  of  OOCL  since  August  2018,  and 
was  also  appointed  the  Chief  Financial  Officer  of  COSCO 
SHIPPING  Holdings,  OOIL  and  OOCL.  He  has  nearly  21 
years  of  working  experience  in  the  shipping  industry.  Mr. 
Zhang  graduated  from  the  Faculty  of  Finance  at  the  Shanghai 
University of Finance and Economics, majoring in Investment 
Economics,  and  from  the  Antai  College  of  Economics  & 
Management  at  the  Shanghai  Jiao  Tong  University,  majoring 
in  Business  Administration  where  he  obtained  a  Bachelor’s 
degree  in  Economics  and  a  Master’s  degree  in  Business 
Administration.  Mr.  Zhang  is  a  Chartered  Financial  Analyst 
(CFA) and a Senior Accountant.

5757

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Senior Management

Steve Siu

Shuai Chen

Mr.  Siu,  aged  62,  has  been  a  Director  and  a  member  of 
Executive  Committee  of  OOCL  since  November  2006  and 
was  appointed  Chief  Information  Officer.  He  has  been  the 
Chief Executive Officer of CargoSmart since January 2002. He 
joined the Group in 1987 and has served the Group in various 
capacities for 32 years. Mr. Siu holds a Bachelor of Science and 
a Master of Science from University of Essex, UK, and a Master 
of  Business  Administration  jointly  organised  by  Northwestern 
University  and  The  Hong  Kong  University  of  Science  and 
Technology.

Mr.  Chen,  aged  45,  has  been  a  Director  and  a  member  of 
Executive  Committee  of  OOCL  since  October  2019.  He  is 
currently the Deputy General Manager of COSCO SHIPPING 
Holdings, the Deputy General Manager of COSCO SHIPPING 
Lines.  Mr.  Chen  joined  COSCO  Group  in  July  1995,  had 
served  in  various  capacities,  including  the  Assistant  to 
Manager  and  the  Deputy  Manager  of  Container  Shipping 
Division  I  of  China  Shipping  Container  Lines  Co.,  Ltd.,  the 
Assistant  to  General  Manager  of  China  Shipping  Container 
Lines (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd., the General Manager of America 
Division of China Shipping Container Lines Co., Ltd., and the 
Assistant to General Manager and Deputy General Manager of 
China Shipping Container Lines Co., Ltd.. Mr. Chen graduated 
from  Shanghai  Maritime  Academy  with  major  in  Marine 
Engineering Management.

Lammy Lee

Michael Fitzgerald

Ms.  Lee,  aged  58,  has  been  a  Director  and  a  member  of 
Executive  Committee  of  OOCL  since  April  2011.  She  was 
appointed the Company Secretary and Group Legal Advisor of 
OOIL  since  February  1997  and  Compliance  Officer  of  OOIL 
since June 2004. She joined the Group in 1988 and has served 
the  Group  in  various  capacities  for  31  years.  Ms.  Lee  holds 
a  Bachelor  of  Laws  from  Queen  Mary  College,  University  of 
London, a Barrister and member of Lincoln’s Inn and admitted 
as an advocate and solicitor of the High Court of Malaya.

Mr.  Fitzgerald,  aged  46,  has  been  a  Director  of  OOCL  since 
June  2018  and  a  member  of  Executive  Committee  since  2014. 
He  joined  the  group  in  September  2014  as  Group  Finance 
Director  and  has  been  the  Group  Deputy  Chief  Financial 
Officer  since  December  2015.  He  started  his  career  at  KPMG 
in London in August 1995, and having qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant,  moved  to  the  Structured  Finance  division  of 
Société Générale in January 1999, where he enjoyed an almost 
16-year  career,  holding  various  posts  in  London,  Hong  Kong 
and  Paris.  Mr.  Fitzgerald  holds  the  degrees  of  Bachelor  and 
Master of Arts from the University of Oxford, and is a Fellow 
of  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  in  England  and 
Wales.

58

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Senior Management

Raymond Fung

Teddy Fung

Mr.  Fung,  aged  61,  has  been  a  Director  of  OOCL  since  June 
2018  and  a  member  of  Executive  Committee  since  November 
2015.  He  was  appointed  Director  of  Trades  since  January 
2016,  and  Director  of  Intra-Asia  Trade  until  2015.  Mr.  Fung 
joined the Group in 1983 and has served the Group in various 
capacities  for  36  years,  including  as  General  Manager  of 
Operations,  Managing  Director  of  OOCL  (UAE),  Director 
of  Australia  Trade,  and  General  Manager  of  Corporate 
Methods  and  Tools.  Mr.  Fung  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Business 
Administration  General  Business  Management  from  The 
Chinese University of Hong Kong.

Mr.  Fung,  aged  59,  has  been  a  Director  of  OOCL  since  June 
2018  and  a  member  of  Executive  Committee  since  November 
2015.  He  was  appointed  Director  of  Trades  since  April  2019, 
and  Director  of  Regions  Management  since  January  2016  and 
Director  of  Corporate  Operation  since  September  2013  until 
March  2019.  He joined  the Group  in 1994 and  has served the 
Group in various capacities for 25 years, including as General 
Manager of OOCL South China sub-region, Director of Reefer 
Trade,  and  Managing  Director  of  OOCL  Hong  Kong  Branch. 
Mr. Fung holds a Bachelor of Social Science in Economics and 
a  Master  of  Arts  in  Transport  Studies  from  The  University  of 
Hong Kong.

5959

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Financial Calendar

Financial Calendar

Announcement of results for the half year ended 30th June 2019

26th August 2019

Despatch of 2019 Interim Report to shareholders

19th September 2019

Closure of the Register of Members  
(to ascertain the shareholders qualified to receive the proposed interim dividend  
in respect of the six months ended 30th June 2019)

20th September 2019 to 
24th September 2019 
(Both days inclusive)

2019 Special General Meeting

17th December 2019

Closure of the Register of Members  
(to ascertain the shareholders qualified to receive the special dividend)

23rd December 2019 to 
27th December 2019 
(Both days inclusive)

Announcement of results for the year ended 31st December 2019

20th March 2020

Despatch of 2019 Annual Report to shareholders

22nd April 2020

Closure of the Register of Members 
(to ascertain the shareholders eligible to attend and 
vote at the Annual General Meeting)

11th May 2020 to 
15th May 2020 
(Both days inclusive)

2019 Annual General Meeting

15th May 2020

Closure of the Register of Members 
(to ascertain the shareholders qualified to receive the proposed final and 
special dividends in respect of the year ended 31st December 2019)

22nd May 2020 to 
26th May 2020 
(Both days inclusive)

60

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Shareholder Information

Shareholder Information

ORDINARY SHARES

Issued shares
Nominal value per share
Board lot

ANNUAL REPORT

625,793,297 shares (as at 31st December 2019)
US$0.10
500 shares

This annual report is available in both English and Chinese.

Shareholders can obtain copies by writing to the Company’s Hong Kong branch share registrar:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited

17M Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong

If you are not a shareholder, please write to:

Orient Overseas (International) Limited

31st Floor, Harbour Centre

25 Harbour Road

Wanchai, Hong Kong

Attention: Company Secretary

This annual report is also available at our website at http://www.ooilgroup.com.

SHAREHOLDER SERVICES

Any  matter  relating  to  your  shareholding,  including  transfer  of  shares,  change  of  name  or  address  and  loss  of  share  certificates, 

should be addressed in writing to:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited

17M Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong

Telephone: (852) 2862 8555

Facsimile: (852) 2865 0990

SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES

Any matter relating to shareholders’ rights should be addressed in writing to:

Orient Overseas (International) Limited

31st Floor, Harbour Centre

25 Harbour Road

Wanchai, Hong Kong

Attention: Company Secretary

Our enquiry hotline is operational during normal office hours:

Telephone: (852) 2833 3888

Facsimile: (852) 2531 8147

6161

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Shareholder Information

SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Ordinary shareholder information as at 31st December 2019:

Type of shareholders

Type of shareholders

Number

Percentage

Number

Percentage

Shareholders

Shares of US$0.10 each

Corporate

Individual

Distribution of shareholdings

Size of shareholdings

1 – 10,000

10,001 – 100,000

100,001 – 1,000,000

1,000,001 or above

19

557

576

3.2986%

96.7014%

624,715,637

1,077,660

99.8278%

0.1722%

100%

625,793,297

100%

Shareholders

Shares of US$0.10 each

Number

Percentage

Number

Percentage

558

14

1

3

576

96.8750%

2.4306%

0.1736%

0.5208%

510,106

422,703

259,000

624,601,488

0.0815%

0.0675%

0.0414%

99.8096%

100%

625,793,297

100%

Ten largest ordinary shareholders

At  31st  December  2019,  the  interests  of  the  ten  largest  ordinary  shareholders  of  the  Company,  as  recorded  in  the  Company’s 
principal register and Hong Kong branch register of members, were as follows:

Name of ordinary shareholders

ordinary shares held

Percentage

Number of 

315,779,045

246,868,907

61,953,536

259,000

70,500

52,000

45,022

40,454

35,000

32,420

50.4606%

39.4490%

9.9000%

0.0414%

0.0113%

0.0083%

0.0072%

0.0065%

0.0056%

0.0052%

Faulkner Global Holdings Limited

HKSCC Nominees Limited

Shanghai Port Group (BVI) Development Co., Limited

Mok Kwun Cheung

Po Leung Kuk

Ho Fuk Chuen

Fung Sun Kwan U/D

Ho Hin Kwong

Leung Wong Kit Ling

Chow Mung Ha

62

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

Corporate Governance Report

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE

The  Board  of  Directors  (the  “Board”)  and  the  management  of  the  Company  are  committed  to  maintaining  high  standards  of 

corporate  governance  and  the  Company  considers  that  effective  corporate  governance  makes  an  important  contribution  to 

corporate success and to the enhancement of shareholder value.

The  Company  has  adopted  its  own  corporate  governance  code  (the  “CG  Code”),  which  in  addition  to  applying  the  principles 

as  set  out  in  the  Corporate  Governance  Code  and  Corporate  Governance  Report  (the  “SEHK  Code”)  contained  in  Appendix 

14  to  the  Rules  Governing  the  Listing  of  Securities  (the  “Listing  Rules”)  on  The  Stock  Exchange  of  Hong  Kong  Limited 

(the  “Stock  Exchange”),  also  incorporates  and  conforms  to  local  and  international  best  practices.  The  CG  Code  sets  out  the 

corporate governance principles applied by the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) and is constantly reviewed to ensure 

transparency, accountability and independence.

Throughout the year 2019, the Company complied with the SEHK Code, save for the following:

(cid:127)  Code Provision

(cid:127)  Mr. Xu Lirong, the Chairman of the Board, did not attend the annual general meeting of the Company held on 17th May 

2019 (the “Last AGM”) due to prior business engagement and delegated to Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew to chair the 

Last AGM.

(cid:127)  Recommended Best Practices

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

the remuneration of senior management is disclosed in bands

operational results, instead of financial results, are announced and published quarterly

6363

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Corporate Governance Report

We have set out in this report our guiding principles and rationale for implementation of the CG Code as well as the status of the 
Company’s compliance with Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules during the year 2019:

A.  BOARD OF DIRECTORS

1.  Board Composition

The Board is currently comprised of four Executive Directors, five Non-Executive Directors and five Independent Non-
Executive Directors.

Executive Directors

Mr. Xu Lirong (Chairman)
Mr. Wang Haimin (Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. Yang Zhijian
Mr. Feng Boming

Non-Executive Directors

Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Yan Jun
Ms. Wang Dan
Mr. Ip Sing Chi
Ms. Cui Hongqin

Independent Non-Executive Directors

Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip
Ms. Chen Ying
Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung

The  biographical  details  of  the  Directors  are  set  out  on  the  Company’s  website  at  http://www.ooilgroup.com  and  on 
pages 50 to 56 of this annual report.

The Directors have formal letters of appointment setting out the key terms and conditions of their appointments, and 
are for a fixed term of three years and subject to re-election by rotation at least once every three years.

The  Directors  have  extensive  corporate  and  strategic  planning  experience  and  industry  knowledge.  All  Independent 
Non-Executive Directors are financially independent from the Group bringing independent and diversified experience, 
competencies, skills and judgment to the Group’s strategy and policies through their informed contributions. The Board 
considers that there is a reasonable balance between the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors and has 
provided adequate checks and balances for safeguarding the interests of the shareholders and the Group.

The  Company  has  received  from  each  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  a  written  annual  confirmation  of  his/her 
independence and considers that all the Independent Non-Executive Directors have satisfied their independence to the 
Group up to the date of this annual report.

During the year 2019, the Board complied with the Listing Rules’ requirement in having at least three Independent Non-
Executive  Directors  representing  at  least  one-third  of  the  Board,  including  at  least  one  with  appropriate  professional 
qualifications or accounting or related financial management expertise.

Directors’ and Officers’ Liabilities Insurance

Since  1992,  the  Company  has  arranged  insurance  cover  for  directors’  and  officers’  liabilities  including  cover  for 
Directors, officers and senior management of the Group arising out of corporate activities.

64

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

2.  Board and Management Responsibilities

The  Board  is  responsible  for  the  overall  strategic  direction  and  management  of  the  business  and  affairs  of  the  Group 
with  the  objective  of  enhancing  shareholder  value  and  presenting  a  balanced,  clear  and  understandable  assessment  of 
the Company’s performance, position and prospects in the annual and interim reports, and announcements and other 
financial  disclosures  as  required  under  the  Listing  Rules,  and  reports  to  regulators  any  information  required  to  be 
disclosed pursuant to statutory requirements.

The Board has a fiduciary duty and statutory responsibility towards the Company and the Group. Other responsibilities 
include formulation of the Group’s overall strategy and policies, setting of corporate and management targets and key 
operational  initiatives,  setting  of  policies  on  risk  management  and  internal  control  systems  pursuant  to  the  Group’s 
strategic  objectives,  monitoring  and  control  of  operational  and  financial  performance,  and  approval  of  budgets  and 
major  capital  expenditures,  major  investments,  material  acquisitions  and  disposals  of  assets,  corporate  or  financial 
restructuring, significant operational, financial and management matters.

The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business of the Group to the management of the Group under the 
leadership  and  supervision  of  the  Chief  Executive  Officer,  who  will  organise,  execute,  implement  and  report  to  the 
Board on the adoption of the Company’s strategy, policies and objectives by the Group pursuant to the resolutions of the 
Board.

The  Board  also  delegates  certain  specific  responsibilities  to  nine  committees  of  the  Company  (Executive  Committee, 
Audit  Committee,  Remuneration  Committee,  Nomination  Committee,  Risk  Committee,  Compliance  Committee, 
Finance  Committee,  Share  Committee  and  Inside  Information  Committee).  The  composition  and  functions  of  each 
committee  are  described  below.  These  committees  have  specific  functions  and  authority  to  examine  issues  and  report 
to the Board with their recommendations (if appropriate). For the efficient management and operation of the Group’s 
principal  division,  the  Board  also  delegates  and  confers  certain  powers,  authorities  and  discretions  on  such  terms  as 
it thinks fit to the board of directors and the executive committee of the Group’s principal division, which in turn are 
supported by four sub-committees, each having its own terms of reference setting out its authorities and responsibilities. 
The  final  decision  rests  with  the  Board,  unless  otherwise  provided  for  in  the  terms  of  reference  of  the  relevant 
committees of the Company.

The  Company  Secretary  provides  the  Directors  with  updates  on  developments  regarding  the  Listing  Rules  and  other 
applicable  regulatory  requirements.  Any  Director  may  request  the  Company  Secretary  to  organise  independent 
professional  advice  at  the  expense  of  the  Company  to  assist  the  Directors  to  effectively  discharge  their  duties  to  the 
Company. No such independent professional advice was requested by any Director in year 2019.

3.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Mr. Xu Lirong is the Chairman of the Company and Mr. Wang Haimin is the Chief Executive Officer of the Company 
with the respective roles set out in writing.

a.  The  primary  role  of  the  Chairman  is  to  provide  leadership  to  the  Board  and  to  ensure  that  the  Board  functions 

effectively in the discharge of its responsibilities. His duties include to:

– 

– 

– 

ensure that Directors are briefed and have received timely, accurate, complete and clear information on issues 
to be discussed at Board meetings;

ensure  that  the  Board  works  effectively  and  performs  its  responsibilities,  and  that  all  key  and  appropriate 
issues  are  discussed  in  a  timely  manner  and  that  good  corporate  governance  practices  and  procedures  are 
established, implemented and maintained;

approve  the  agenda  drawn  up  by  the  Company  Secretary  for  each  Board  meeting  taking  into  account  any 
matter proposed by other Directors for inclusion in the agenda;

6565

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

– 

promote  a  culture  of  openness  and  debate  by  facilitating  the  effective  contribution  of  the  Non-Executive 
Directors (including Independent Non-Executive Directors) in particular and ensuring constructive relations 
between  the  Executive  Directors  and  the  Non-Executive  Directors;  and  encourage  Directors  with  different 
views  to  voice  their  concerns,  allow  sufficient  time  for  discussion  of  issues  and  ensure  that  Board  decisions 
fairly reflect Board consensus;

hold  meetings  at  least  annually  with  the  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors  without  the  presence  of  the 
other Directors;

ensure effective communication with shareholders and that their views are communicated to the Board; and 
to

attend  the  annual  general  meetings  and  invite  the  chairmen  of  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration 
Committee, the Nomination Committee and the other Board committees, or in the absence of the chairman 
of the respective Board committees, other members of the related Board committees to be available to answer 
questions at the annual general meetings.

In case of an equality of votes at any Board meeting, the Chairman shall be entitled to a second or a casting vote.

b.  The primary role of the Chief Executive Officer is to be responsible for the day-to-day management and operation 

of the business of the Group. His duties include to:

– 

provide  leadership  and  supervise  the  effective  management  of  the  Group  and  to  establish  and  review  from 
time to time the management system of the Group;

– 

set up programs for management development and succession planning for the Group;

–  monitor and control the operational and financial performance of the Group;

– 

– 

– 

organise, execute, implement and report to the Board on the adoption of the Company’s strategy, policies and 
objectives by the Group pursuant to the resolutions of the Board;

provide  information  to  the  Board  (as  necessary)  to  enable  the  Board  to  monitor  the  performance  of 
management and operation of the Group; and to

organise  the  implementation  of  the  Board’s  decision  and  implement  such  duties  as  directed  or  delegated  by 
the Board.

4.  Board Meetings

Regular Board meetings are scheduled one year in advance to maximise the attendance of Directors. The Board meets at 
least four times each year and has a formal schedule of matters referred to it for consideration and decision. Additional 
meetings may be convened as and when necessary. Notice of at least fourteen days is served for regular Board meetings 
and reasonable notice is given for all other Board meetings. Directors are consulted and provided with an opportunity 
to include matters to the agenda for discussion at the Board meetings. The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in 
preparing the agenda for each Board meeting and to ensure that applicable rules and regulations regarding the meetings 
are observed. The final agenda together with the Board papers are distributed to the Directors at least three days before 
the Board meetings.

If a Director (who may also be a substantial shareholder of the Company) has a conflict of interest in any matter to be 
considered by the Board, the Company Secretary shall ensure that such matter is dealt with by a physical Board meeting 
rather  than  a  written  resolution.  If  considered  appropriate,  the  Board  meeting  shall  be  attended  by  the  Independent 
Non-Executive Directors who have no material interests in the matter. The affected Director shall abstain from voting 
on any such resolution in which they or any of their associates have a material interest and shall not be counted in the 
quorum present at that Board meeting.

The Company Secretary shall ensure that the procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed. Copies of all 
signed minutes of the Board are sent to the Directors for their records.

66

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

5.  Director Induction and Continuous Professional Development

Newly  appointed  Director  will  receive  comprehensive  induction  on  appointment  to  ensure  understanding  of  the 
Directors’ responsibilities and obligations under the Listing Rules and relevant regulatory requirements.

In  addition  to  Directors’  attendance  at  meetings  and  review  of  papers  and  circulars  provided  by  the  Company,  the 
Directors are committed to participating in continuous professional development program to develop and refresh their 
knowledge and skills to help ensure that their contribution to the Board remains informed and relevant.

The program for continuous professional development of Directors takes various forms including:

(cid:127) 

the  Company  briefing  Directors  on  important  issues  which  have  a  material  impact  on  the  Group’s  business, 
financial  and  operational  matters  including  major  investments,  corporate  governance  practices  and  funding 
strategy;

(cid:127)  Directors meeting senior management of the Group on issues specific to the Group’s business;

(cid:127)  Directors reading materials and updates on the regulatory changes followed by briefings by the Company Secretary 

of the Company, if requested; and

(cid:127)  Directors  attending  external  seminars  on  business,  financial,  governance,  regulatory  and  other  issues  relevant  to 

the Group’s activities.

Below is the record of participation in continuous professional development program by the Directors of the Company 
in  year  2019  relevant  to  the  directors’  duties  and  responsibilities,  regulatory  updates  and  business,  financial  and 
operational matters of the Group.

Reading materials

Attending external 
seminars/briefings

Executive Directors
Mr. Xu Lirong
Mr. Wang Haimin
Mr. Yang Zhijian (Note 1)
Mr. Feng Boming (Note 1)
Mr. Huang Xiaowen (Note 2)
Mr. Zhang Wei (Note 2)

Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew (Note 3)
Mr. Yan Jun
Ms. Wang Dan
Mr. Ip Sing Chi
Ms. Cui Hongqin

Independent Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip
Ms. Chen Ying
Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung (Note 4)
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard (Note 5)

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

✓

✓
✓

6767

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

Notes:

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

appointed as Executive Directors of the Company with effect from 18th September 2019.

resigned as Executive Directors of the Company with effect from 18th September 2019.

re-designated from an Executive Director to a Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 1st January 2020.

appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 17th May 2019.

retired as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 17th May 2019.

Ms. Lammy Lee, the Company Secretary of the Company, undertook no less than fifteen hours of professional training 
in year 2019 to update her skills and knowledge.

6.  Supply of and Access to Information

All  Directors  have  access  to  the  Board’s  and  the  Committees’  papers  and  other  materials  either  from  the  Company 
Secretary or the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer so that they are able to make informed decisions on matters 
placed before them.

7.  Nomination of Directors

The Company follows a formal, considered and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors based on 
a  nomination  policy  (the  “Nomination  Policy”)  formally  adopted  in  2018  providing  the  selection  criteria  of  potential 
candidates  for  directorship  of  the  Company,  and  the  procedures  for  appointment  of  Directors  of  the  Company  and 
certain  significant  positions  of  the  Group,  for  the  Board  to  achieve  a  balance  of  skills,  experience  and  diversity  of 
perspectives appropriate to the requirements of the Company’s strategic focus and specific business needs. Recognising 
the  vitality  of  diversity  for  the  Board,  the  Company  has  also  adopted  a  board  diversity  policy  (the  “Board  Diversity 
Policy”) in 2013.

The  Nomination  Committee  of  the  Company  reviews  the  structure,  size  and  composition  of  the  Board  regularly  and 
makes  recommendation  to  the  Board  to  complement  the  corporate  strategy  of  the  Company.  The  appointment  of  a 
new Director is a collective decision of the Board, taking into consideration both the Nomination Policy and the Board 
Diversity Policy. The Board believes that changes to the Board composition shall be managed without undue disruption, 
and  shall  continue  to  provide  a  balanced  composition  of  the  Executive  Directors  and  the  Non-Executive  Directors 
(including Independent Non-Executive Directors) so that there is a strong independent element in the Board, which can 
effectively exercise independent judgement.

Each  Director  shall,  after  his/her  appointment  and  semi-annually  thereafter,  disclose  to  the  Board  the  number 
and  nature  of  offices  held  by  such  Director  in  other  public  companies  and  organisations  and  any  other  significant 
commitments, together with the identity of the public companies and organisations and an indication of time involved.

At the Last AGM, Mr. Xu Lirong, Mr. Huang Xiaowen, Mr. Wang Haimin, Mr. Zhang Wei, Mr. Yan Jun, Ms. Wang Dan, 
Mr. Ip Sing Chi, Ms. Cui Hongqin, Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson, Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip and Ms. Chen Ying, all 
appointed as Directors of the Company on 3rd August 2018, retired and were re-elected as Directors of the Company in 
accordance with bye-law 86(2) of the Bye-laws of the Company (the “Bye-laws”).

Professor  Wong  Yue  Chim  Richard  retired  as  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  on  17th  May 
2019 and did not offer himself for re-election pursuant to bye-laws 87(2) and 87(4)(c) of the Bye-laws.

At the special general meeting of the Company held on 17th December 2019 (the “SGM”), Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung, 
appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company on 17th May 2019, and Mr. Yang Zhijian and Mr. 
Feng Boming, appointed as Executive Directors of the Company on 18th September 2019, all retired and were re-elected 
as Directors of the Company pursuant to code provision A.4.2 of Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules.

68

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

8.  Board Committees

In  addition  to  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee  and  the  Nomination  Committee  established  in 
compliance  with  the  Listing  Rules,  the  other  committees  of  the  Company  are  comprised  of  the  Executive  Committee, 
the Finance Committee, the Share Committee, the Compliance Committee, the Inside Information Committee and the 
Risk Committee. Each committee has its own well defined scope of duties and terms of reference. The terms of reference 
of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee are available on the websites of 
the Company and the Stock Exchange. The Company Secretary shall also make available the terms of reference of all the 
committees to any shareholder upon receipt of a written request from such shareholder. The members of a committee 
are  empowered  to  make  decisions  on  matters  within  the  terms  of  reference  of  such  committee.  Copies  of  all  signed 
minutes of the committees are sent to the members of the respective committees and the Directors of the Company for 
their records.

a.  Executive Committee

The  Executive  Committee  was  established  in  1996.  All  its  members  are  the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Company. 
It  is  currently  comprised  of  Mr.  Xu  Lirong  (chairman  of  the  Executive  Committee),  Mr.  Wang  Haimin,  Mr. 
Yang  Zhijian  and  Mr.  Feng  Boming  (both  Mr.  Yang  and  Mr.  Feng  were  appointed  as  members  of  the  Executive 
Committee on 18th September 2019), with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of the Executive Committee.

The Executive Committee operates as an executive management committee under the direct authority of the Board. 
Its primary duties include to:

– 

formulate strategy and policies and to set corporate and management targets and operational initiatives and 
policies on risk management, and plans and operational directions for the Group;

–  monitor, control and manage operational and financial performance and business affairs of the Group;

– 

– 

– 

– 

review,  discuss  and  approve  (if  appropriate)  (i)  announcements,  circulars  and  other  documents  (including 
inside  information  and  financial  information)  required  to  be  disclosed  pursuant  to  the  Listing  Rules, 
regulatory  or  statutory  requirements;  (ii)  submissions  from  the  Compliance  Committee,  the  Finance 
Committee and the Share Committee and, if appropriate, to recommend to the Board for consideration and 
approval;

approve capital expenditure for a specified amount;

liaise  and  consult  with,  advise  and  make  recommendations  to  its  subsidiaries  and  make  such  decisions  with 
regard thereto as the Executive Committee shall in its absolute discretion think fit, and refer such matters as it 
thinks fit to the Board for consideration, approval and/or ratification, if necessary; and to

report to the Board on its decisions, and any matter in respect of which it considers that action is needed, and 
its recommendations as to the steps to be taken.

b.  Audit Committee

The Audit Committee was established in 1992. All its members are the Independent Non-Executive Directors. It is 
currently comprised of Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah (appointed as the chairman of the Audit Committee on 17th May 
2019), Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson, Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip, Ms. Chen Ying and Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung 
(appointed as a member of the Audit Committee on 17th May 2019), with Mr. Fung Yee Chung Vincent, the Head 
of  Internal  Audit  as  the  secretary  of  the  Audit  Committee,  and  Ms.  Lammy  Lee  as  the  assistant  secretary  of  the 
Audit Committee. With effect from 1st April 2020, Mr. Fung Yee Chung Vincent will retire and Ms. Lai Yuen Ying 
Vivian will succeed him as the Head of Internal Audit Department and the secretary of the Audit Committee.

6969

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

The  Audit  Committee  is  delegated  by  the  Board  with  the  responsibility  to  provide  an  independent  review  and 
supervision  of  financial  reporting  and  to  ensure  the  effectiveness  of  the  Group’s  risk  management  and  internal 
control  systems  and  the  adequacy  of  the  external  and  internal  audit.  To  perform  its  duties,  the  Audit  Committee 
is  provided  with  sufficient  resources  and  is  supported  by  the  Internal  Audit  Department  to  examine  all  matters 
relating to the Group’s adopted accounting principles and practices and to review all material financial, operational 
and compliance controls. The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are posted on the Company’s website.

The primary duties of the Audit Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

recommend  to  the  Board  the  appointment,  re-appointment  and  removal  of  the  external  auditor,  and  to 
approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor, and any question of its resignation 
or dismissal;

act as the key representative body overseeing the Company’s relation with the external auditor;

seek from the external auditor, on an annual basis, information about policies and processes for maintaining 
independence  and  monitoring  compliance  with  relevant  requirements,  including  provision  of  non-audit 
services and requirements regarding rotation of audit partners and staff;

discuss  with  the  external  auditor  any  recommendation  arising  from  the  audit,  and  to  review  the  external 
auditor’s  management  letter,  any  material  query  raised  by  the  external  auditor  to  management  about 
accounting records, financial statements or systems of control and management’s response, and to ensure that 
the Board will provide timely response to the issues raised in the external auditor’s management letter;

establish  and  review  from  time  to  time  the  procedure  to  review  and  monitor  the  external  auditor’s 
independence  and  objectivity,  and  the  effectiveness  of  the  audit  process  in  accordance  with  the  applicable 
standards and the scope of the external auditor, and to discuss and understand the factors considered by the 
external auditor in determining the nature and scope of the audit and reporting obligations before the audit 
commences;

establish and review from time to time the policy relating to hiring of employees or former employees of the 
external auditor and monitor the application of such policy; and to consider whether as a result of such hiring 
there has been any impairment of the auditor’s judgment or independence in respect of the audit;

establish and review from time to time the policy on engaging external auditor to supply non-audit services 
and  to  review  such  services  do  not  impair  the  external  auditor’s  independence  or  objectivity  in  relation  to 
non-audit  services  including  whether  the  skills  and  experience  of  the  external  auditor  make  it  a  suitable 
supplier  of  non-audit  services;  whether  there  are  safeguards  in  place  to  ensure  that  there  is  no  threat  to  the 
objectivity  and  independence  of  the  audit  because  the  external  auditor  provides  non-audit  services;  and 
the  nature  of  non-audit  services,  the  related  fee  levels  and  fee  levels  individually  and  in  total  relative  to  the 
external auditor;

– 

review the Group’s financial and accounting policies and practices;

–  monitor  the  integrity  of  the  Company’s  financial  statements,  annual,  quarterly  (if  prepared  for  publication) 
and  interim  financial  reports  and  to  review  any  significant  financial  reporting  judgment  contained  in  them, 
with particular focus on changes in accounting policies and practices, major judgmental areas, any significant 
audit  adjustment,  the  going  concern  assumption  and  any  qualification,  compliance  with  any  applicable  legal 
requirement and accounting standard, and compliance with the requirements of the Listing Rules and other 
legal requirements in relation to financial reporting;

– 

consider  any  significant  or  unusual  item  that  is,  or  may  need  to  be,  reflected  in  the  report  and  financial 
statements  and  to  give  due  consideration  to  any  matter  that  has  been  raised  by  the  Financial  Compliance 
Officer  of  the  Company,  the  external  auditor,  the  Head  of  Internal  Audit  or  the  staff  responsible  for  the 
accounting and financial reporting function;

70

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review  with  the  Group’s  management,  the  external  auditor  and  the  internal  auditor,  the  adequacy  of  the 
Group’s  policies  and  procedures  regarding  internal  control  system  (including  financial,  operational  and 
compliance  controls)  to  ensure  that  such  system  is  effective  with  audit  trails  to  protect  the  accuracy  and 
integrity  of  financial  data  and  to  pursue  relevant  enquiries  into  matters  having,  or  likely  to  have,  a  material 
effect on the business and financial conditions of the Group. The result of the review is to be reported in the 
Corporate Governance Report of the Company, including a Directors’ statement that they have conducted a 
review of its internal control system;

provide  an  independent  review  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  risk  management  system  including  the  risk 
management framework, policies and processes;

discuss with management the scope and quality of the risk management and internal control systems and to 
ensure that management has performed its duty to have effective systems including the adequacy of resources, 
staff  qualifications  and  experience,  training  programs  and  budget  and  experience  of  staff  of  the  accounting, 
internal audit and financial reporting functions;

review findings of internal investigation and management’s response of any suspected fraud or irregularity or 
failure of risk management and internal control or infringement of laws, rules and regulations;

review the scope and effectiveness of the internal audit functions and to review the results of the internal audit 
functions  regularly  with  the  internal  auditor  matters  including  planning  of  the  Audit  Committee  meetings 
and, if required by the internal auditor, the internal audit program; and to ensure co-ordination between the 
internal and external auditors and that the internal audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate 
standing within the Company and to review and monitor its effectiveness;

review  the  effectiveness  and  monitor  the  use  of  the  whistleblowing  policy  and  procedures  for  employees  to 
raise  concerns,  in  confidence,  to  the  Audit  Committee  about  improprieties  in  financial  reporting,  internal 
control  and  other  matters;  and  to  ensure  that  proper  arrangements  are  in  place  for  fair  and  independent 
investigation of these improprieties and for appropriate follow-up action;

report to the Board on the matters raised in the SEHK Code; and to

report to the Board, identifying and making recommendations on any matter where action or improvement is 
needed and to consider other topics identified and referred to the Audit Committee by the Board.

Under  the  Group’s  whistleblowing  policy,  employees  may  report  any  concern  regarding  accounting,  internal 
accounting controls and auditing matters to the Audit Committee without fear of dismissal or retaliation, in order 
to  ensure  that  the  Group  complies  with  all  the  applicable  laws  and  regulations,  accounting  standards,  accounting 
controls and audit practices. The Audit Committee will review each complaint and decide on how the investigation 
should be conducted. In year 2019, the Audit Committee received no complaint from employees.

The Audit Committee held two meetings during the year ended 31st December 2019. The following is a summary 
of work performed by the Audit Committee during the year 2019:

(i) 

reviewed and discussed the annual financial statements for 2018 and the interim financial statements for 2019 
with the external auditor and management of the Company, with recommendations to the Board for approval;

(ii)  reviewed the significant audit and accounting issues arising from the external auditor’s statutory audit of the 

2018 annual financial statements and issues arising from the review of the 2019 interim financial statements;

(iii)  reviewed the impact of the new and revised accounting standards on the Company;

(iv)  reviewed the external auditor’s audit strategy and approach;

(v)  reviewed the non-audit services provided by the external auditor in 2018;

7171

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

(vi)  met with the external auditor without the presence of management to discuss issues from the audits and any 

other matters the external auditor might raise;

(vii)  reviewed the Internal Audit Department’s audit objectives and approval of the annual internal audit plan;

(viii) reviewed  the  findings  and  recommendations  of  the  Internal  Audit  Department  on  the  audits  carried  out  on 

the principal activities of the Group during the year 2018;

(ix)  reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems;

(x)  reviewed  the  relevant  sections  in  the  Corporate  Governance  Report  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2018 

concerning the Audit Committee;

(xi)  reviewed the adequacy of the resources, staff qualifications and experience, training programs and budget and 

experience of staff of the Company’s accounting, internal audit and financial reporting functions;

(xii) reviewed the continuing connected transactions and their annual caps; and

(xiii) reviewed the continuous implementation of the whistleblowing policy.

The minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are prepared by the secretary of the Audit Committee with details of 
all matters considered by the attendees and of decisions reached, including any concern raised by the attendees and 
dissenting views expressed. The final version of the minutes is sent to the attendees for their records. The minutes 
are open for inspection by the Audit Committee members and the Board members.

c.  Remuneration Committee

The  Remuneration  Committee  was  established  in  2005.  A  majority  of  its  members  are  the  Independent  Non-
Executive  Directors.  It  is  currently  comprised  of  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah  (chairman  of  the  Remuneration 
Committee), Mr. Feng Boming (appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 18th September 2019) 
and Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip (appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 17th May 2019), with 
Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of the Remuneration Committee.

The primary duties of the Remuneration Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review and recommend to the Board the Company’s policy and structure of the remuneration of the Directors 
of  the  Company,  senior  management  (including  the  chief  executive  officer  of  the  principal  division  of  the 
Group)  and  employees  of  the  Group  including  performance-based  bonus  scheme  on  the  basis  that  they  are 
fairly but responsibly rewarded for their individual contribution to the overall performance of the Company;

establish and review a formal and transparent procedure for developing the remuneration policy;

(i)  review  and  approve  the  management’s  remuneration  proposals  with  reference  to  the  Board’s  corporate 
goals  and  objectives;  and  determine  the  remuneration  packages  of  individual  Executive  Directors  of  the 
Company  and  senior  management  (including  the  chief  executive  officer  of  the  principal  division  of  the 
Group); and (ii) recommend to the Board the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

consult the Chairman of the Board and/or Chief Executive Officer of the Company about their remuneration 
proposals  for  the  other  Executive  Directors  of  the  Company  and  senior  management  (including  the  chief 
executive officer of the principal division of the Group);

review and approve compensation payable to the Executive Directors of the Company and senior management 
(including  the  chief  executive  officer  of  the  principal  division  of  the  Group)  for  any  loss  or  termination  of 
office to ensure that it is consistent with the contractual terms and is otherwise fair and not excessive;

72

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

review and approve compensation arrangements relating to the dismissal or removal of the Directors for their 
misconduct  to  ensure  that  they  are  consistent  with  the  contractual  terms  and  are  otherwise  reasonable  and 
appropriate;

ensure  that  no  Director  or  any  of  his/her  associates  or  senior  management  (including  the  chief  executive 
officer of the principal division of the Group) is involved in deciding his/her own remuneration; and to

advise the Board any matter relating to the remuneration or reward of the Executive Directors of the Company 
or  senior  management  (including  the  chief  executive  officer  of  the  principal  division  of  the  Group)  or 
employees of the Group.

The  Remuneration  Committee  held  three  meetings  and  passed  resolutions  by  way  of  written  resolution  during 
the year ended 31st December 2019. The works performed by the Remuneration Committee during the year 2019 
include:

(i) 

reviewed the Company’s remuneration policy and structure for the Directors of the Company, and the senior 
management and employees of the Group, and ensured compliance of disclosure with the Listing Rules and in 
line with best practices;

(ii)  reviewed the procedure for developing the Company’s remuneration policy;

(iii)  reviewed  the  discretionary  management  bonus  of  the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Company,  and  the  senior 

management and employees of the Group for the year 2018;

(iv)  reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  or  determined  with  delegated  responsibilities,  as  the  case  may  be, 
in accordance with the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, the remuneration packages of the 
Directors of the Company, and the senior management of the Group for the year 2019;

(v)  reviewed and recommended to the Board the fees payable to the newly appointed Directors and the members 
of  the  Board  committees  of  the  Company,  and  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew  following  his  re-designation 
from an Executive Director to a Non-Executive Director of the Company; and

(vi)  reviewed  the  share  option  incentive  scheme  offered  by  the  intermediate  controlling  shareholder  of  the 

Company to certain employees of the Group.

No Director was involved in determining his/her own remuneration.

d.  Nomination Committee

The  Nomination  Committee  was  established  in  2012.  A  majority  of  its  members  are  the  Independent  Non-
Executive Directors. It is currently comprised of Mr. Xu Lirong (chairman of the Nomination Committee), Mr. Yan 
Jun, Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah, Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson and Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip, with Ms. Lammy 
Lee as the secretary of the Nomination Committee.

The primary duties of the Nomination Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

review  and  recommend  to  the  Board  the  Nomination  Policy  on  the  selection  criteria  of  the  potential 
candidates for the directorship of the Company;

review and recommend to the Board the succession plan to ensure the stability of the Board to complement 
the Company’s corporate strategy;

review and report annually on the implementation of the Board Diversity Policy and the Nomination Policy of 
the Company, and progress (if relevant);

7373

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review  the  structure,  size  and  composition  (including  gender,  age,  cultural  and  education  background, 
ethnicity,  skills,  knowledge,  industry  experience  and  length  of  service)  of  the  Board  at  least  annually  and 
recommend any proposed change to the Board to complement the Company’s corporate strategy;

receive  from  the  Board  referral  of  suitable  qualified  candidate  for  it  to  assess  if  the  potential  candidate 
meets  the  selection  criteria,  which  shall  be  based  on  the  Nomination  Policy  and  the  Board  Diversity  Policy 
appropriate  for  the  Group’s  strategic  focus  and  specific  business  needs;  assess  and  recommend  to  the  Board 
for approval the nomination of a selected candidate as a director of the Company either to fill a casual vacancy 
or as an addition to the existing Board and/or a member of any Board committee of the Company;

review  and  recommend  to  the  Board  the  appointment  or  re-appointment/re-election  of  Directors  and 
succession  plan  for  the  Directors  to  maintain  a  balance  of  skills,  knowledge,  experience  and  diversity  of 
perspectives of the Board;

assess and report to the Board the qualifications of any person proposed by a shareholder of the Company for 
election as a director of the Company to ensure compliance with the Nomination Policy of the Company and 
the requirements as provided in the Listing Rules are satisfied;

assess the independence of the Independent Non-Executive Directors;

regularly  review  and  report  to  the  Board  the  contribution  required  by  a  Director  to  perform  his/her 
responsibilities and whether he is spending sufficient time in performing them;

assess  the  performance  of  the  Executive  Directors  and  conduct  a  regular  evaluation  of  the  Board’s 
performance by members of the Nomination Committee, who are the Independent Non-Executive Directors 
of the Company, and report results of the evaluation to the Board; and to

review the appointment of the chairman of the board and the chief executive officer of the principal division 
of the Group and report result of the review to the Board of the Company for consideration and approval.

The Nomination Committee held two meetings and passed resolutions by way of written resolution during the year 
ended 31st December 2019. The works performed by the Nomination Committee during the year 2019 include:

(i) 

reviewed the Nomination Policy of the Company;

(ii)  reviewed the procedures for appointment of new Directors of the Company and plans for orderly succession;

(iii)  reviewed the implementation of the Board Diversity Policy of the Company;

(iv)  reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board of the Company;

(v)  reviewed and recommended to the Board on the changes in the directorship and officership of the Company 

and the changes in the membership of certain committees of the Company;

(vi)  recommended re-election of the retiring directors at the Last AGM and the SGM;

(vii)  assessed the independence of the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

(viii) reviewed the contribution of the Directors of the Company for the year 2018; and

(ix)  evaluated performance of the Board and assessed performance of the Executive Directors of the Company by 
members of the Nomination Committee, who are the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company, 
in accordance with the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee.

74

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

The Board Diversity Policy is summarised as follows:

– 

– 

– 

the Company ensures that its Board has the appropriate balance of skills, breadth of experience, independence 
and  objectivity,  engagement  and  credibility,  rigour  and  structure  and  diversity  of  perspectives  of  the  Board 
required to support the execution of its strategic focus and specific business needs in order for the Board to be 
effective;

selection  of  candidates  will  be  based  on  a  range  of  perspectives,  including  but  not  limited  to  gender,  age, 
cultural and educational background, ethnicity, industry experience, skills, knowledge and length of service. 
The  Board’s  appointment  should  be  based  on  meritocracy  and  diversity  of  perspectives  appropriate  for  the 
Company’s strategic focus and specific business needs and the contribution that the selected candidates will 
bring to the Board; and

the  Nomination  Committee  will  take  into  consideration  of  the  Board  Diversity  Policy  in  identifying  and 
nominating suitable qualified candidates to become members of the Board, and shall ensure that the selected 
candidates  shall  have  the  breadth  of  experience,  independence  and  objectivity,  engagement  and  credibility, 
rigour and structure.

The Nomination Policy is summarised as follows:

– 

– 

the Board is responsible for the selection and appointment of Directors of the Company and for nomination of 
the Directors of the Company for election by the shareholders of the Company thereafter at regular intervals 
by  rotation  so  as  to  achieve  a  balance  of  skills,  experience  and  diversity  of  perspectives  appropriate  to  the 
requirements  of  the  Company’s  strategic  focus  and  specific  business  needs.  The  Nomination  Committee  is 
responsible for evaluating and nominating candidates for approval by the Board.

the  Nomination  Committee  will  assess  if  the  potential  candidate  meets  the  selection  criteria,  which  shall  be 
based on the Nomination Policy and the Board Diversity Policy appropriate for the Company’s strategic focus 
and  specific  business  needs  under  the  formalised  procedure  for  selection  and  appointment  of  the  Directors 
of  the  Company  and  key  management  of  the  principal  division  of  the  Group.  Contribution  by  the  potential 
candidate shall bring to the Board reflecting the following:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

structure, size and composition of the current Board;

time commitment to the Board;

diversity of the Board in all its aspects as set out in the Board Diversity Policy;

reputation and integrity;

Board succession plan;

requirements as provided in the Listing Rules; and

other factors that the Board may consider appropriate.

– 

the  Nomination  Committee  will  monitor  and  review  the  Nomination  Policy  periodically  to  ensure  that  it 
remains  relevant  to  the  Company’s  strategic  focus  and  business  needs  and  reflects  both  current  regulatory 
requirements and good corporate governance.

7575

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

e.  Risk Committee

The  Risk  Committee  was  established  in  2015  and  is  currently  comprised  of  Mr.  Wang  Haimin  (appointed  as  the 
chairman  of  the  Risk  Committee  on  18th  September  2019),  Mr.  Yang  Zhijian,  Mr.  Feng  Boming  (both  Mr.  Yang 
and Mr. Feng were appointed as members of the Risk Committee on 18th September 2019), Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung 
Andrew,  Mr.  Yan  Jun,  Ms.  Wang  Dan,  Mr.  Ip  Sing  Chi,  Ms.  Cui  Hongqin,  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  Mr.  Zhang 
Mingwen  and  Ms.  Lammy  Lee,  with  Mr.  Mok  Yun  Lee  Paul  as  the  secretary  of  the  Risk  Committee.  With  effect 
from 1st April 2020, Mr. Ye Jianping Kenny will be appointed as a member of the Risk Committee.

The primary duties of the Risk Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

establish  risk  appetite,  risk  management  strategy,  and  a  strong  and  independent  internal  control  and  review 
systems;

align strategic direction and business objectives of the Group with risk appetite;

oversight on adequacy of the Group’s risk management policies, process and system. In pursuing the Group’s 
strategic direction and business objectives, aims to optimise risk and return;

identify, assess and manage principal risks to pursue the Group’s strategic and business objective;

provide direction on the importance of risk management and risk management culture;

formulate, implement and review environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) strategy of the Group; and to

identify,  assess  and  manage  ESG-related  risks  and  ensure  appropriate  and  effective  ESG  risk  management 
systems are in place.

The Risk Committee held two meetings during the year ended 31st December 2019. The works performed by the 
Risk Committee during the year 2019 include:

(i) 

reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  the  Group’s  risk  appetite,  risk  management  strategy,  risk 
management policies, process and system in pursuit of the Group’s strategic direction and business objectives;

(ii) 

identified, reviewed, assessed and managed principal risks of the Group to pursue the Group’s strategic and 
business objectives;

(iii)  reviewed  and  reported  to  the  Board  the  Company’s  compliance  with  the  SEHK  Code  in  relation  to  risk 

management; and

(iv)  reviewed and reported to the Board the Company’s compliance with the Listing Rules in relation to the ESG 

related compliance.

f.  Compliance Committee

The Compliance Committee was established in 2004 and is currently comprised of Ms. Lammy Lee (chairperson 
of the Compliance Committee), Mr. Yang Zhijian (appointed as a member of the Compliance Committee on 18th 
September 2019), Mr. Zhang Mingwen, Mr. Michael Fitzgerald, Mr. Lam Tuen Pei Pius and Mr. Fung Yee Chung 
Vincent. With effect from 1st April 2020, Ms. Lau Siu Ping Karen and Ms. Lai Yuen Ying Vivian will be appointed 
as  members  of  the  Compliance  Committee  and  Mr.  Fung  Yee  Chung  Vincent  will  retire  from  the  Compliance 
Committee. The Board has delegated the responsibility for monitoring the corporate governance compliance to the 
Compliance Committee.

76

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

The primary duties of the Compliance Committee include to:

– 

review, monitor and provide administrative support on the compliance control of the Group and compliance 
of the following corporate governance functions of the Company:

(a)  on  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  corporate  governance  and  make  recommendations  to  the 

Board;

(b)  on  the  training  and  continuous  professional  development  of  Directors  of  the  Company  and  senior 

management of the Group;

(c)  on the Company’s policies and practices on compliance with legal and regulatory requirements;

(d)  on the development of the code of conduct and compliance manuals (if any) applicable to employees of 

the Group and Directors of the Company;

(e)  on the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and the SEHK Code;

(f) 

to report the above items (a) to (e) to the Board regularly; and

– 

– 

(g) 

to  prepare  (i)  the  Corporate  Governance  Report  covering  all  mandatory  disclosure  requirements  as  set 
out in the Listing Rules; and/or (ii) information required to be disclosed by the Compliance Committee 
in  the  Company’s  results  announcements,  the  annual  reports,  the  interim  reports  and  any  other 
documents, pursuant to the Listing Rules;

review and report to the Board regularly the shareholders’ communication policy to ensure its effectiveness; 
and to

ensure the Company is in compliance with the Listing Rules including disclosure and compliance obligations 
for  matters  including  notifiable  transactions,  connected  transactions,  continuing  connected  transactions, 
advance  to  an  entity,  financial  assistance  and  guarantees  to  affiliated  companies  of  the  Company,  loan 
agreements  with  covenants  relating  to  specific  performance  of  the  controlling  shareholder  of  the  Company, 
breach of a loan agreement by the Company, disclosure of financial information pursuant to Appendix 16 to 
the Listing Rules, and general obligations of disclosure under rule 13.09 of the Listing Rules.

The Compliance Committee held three meetings during the year ended 31st December 2019. The works performed 
by the Compliance Committee during the year 2019 include:

(i) 

reviewed  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  corporate  governance,  risk  management,  and  made 
recommendations to the Board;

(ii)  reviewed and monitored the training and continuous professional development of Directors of the Company;

(iii)  reviewed  and  monitored  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  compliance  with  legal  and  regulatory 
requirements, particularly on legal, financial and accounting, internal control and audit, risk management and 
ESG related compliance;

(iv)  reviewed and monitored the code of conduct and compliance manuals (if any) applicable to employees of the 

Group and Directors of the Company;

(v)  reviewed the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and the SEHK Code and the disclosure requirements 

in the Corporate Governance Report;

(vi)  reviewed the Company’s compliance with the disclosure requirements in the Sustainability Report;

7777

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

(vii)  reviewed and reported to the Board on the effectiveness of the shareholders’ communication policy; and

(viii) reviewed  and  reported  to  the  Board  on  the  notifiable  transactions,  connected  transactions,  continuing 

connected transactions and the significant contracts of the Group.

g.  Finance Committee

The  Finance  Committee  was  established  in  1993  and  is  currently  comprised  of  Dr.  Chung  Shui  Ming  Timpson 
(chairman  of  the  Finance  Committee),  Mr.  Yang  Zhijian  (appointed  as  a  member  of  the  Finance  Committee  on 
18th September 2019), Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew, Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah, Ms. Chen Ying and Mr. Zhang 
Mingwen, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of the Finance Committee.

The primary duties of the Finance Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

assist in the financial requirements of the Group including financing, refinancing, leasing, purchase and sale 
of vessels, properties and equipment and the financing of the business operations of the Group;

report to the Board on its decisions, and any matter in respect of which it considers that action is needed, and 
its recommendation as to the steps to be taken; and to

discuss  and  review  the  disclosure  obligations  of  the  Company  on  financial,  accounting  or  related  issues 
on  compliance  with  the  Listing  Rules  and  refer  transactions  with  their  recommendations  to  the  Executive 
Committee of the Company for its endorsement and/or approval.

h.  Share Committee

The Share Committee was established in 1992 and is currently comprised of Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip (chairman 
of the Share Committee), Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah and Ms. Chen Ying, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of 
the Share Committee.

The primary duties of the Share Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

deal  with  and  grant  approval  on  the  removal  of  the  ordinary  shares  of  the  Company  from  the  Principal 
Register in Bermuda to the Branch Register in Hong Kong, China or vice versa;

deal with the share transactions including, but not limited to share repurchases, issue of bonus shares, scrip 
dividend schemes, top up placings, share subscriptions and placement of the Company’s shares;

give authorisation to the Company’s Principal Registrar and Branch Registrar to issue share certificates to the 
shareholders  of  the  Company  who  have  reported  loss  of  share  certificates  and  in  connection  with  the  above 
share transactions; and to

discuss and review the disclosure obligations of the Company on share transactions and compliance with the 
Listing Rules.

78

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

i. 

Inside Information Committee

The  Inside  Information  Committee  was  established  in  2013  and  is  currently  comprised  of  Mr.  Wang  Haimin 
(appointed as the chairman of the Inside Information Committee on 18th September 2019), Mr. Yang Zhijian, Mr. 
Feng Boming (both Mr. Yang and Mr. Feng were appointed as members of the Inside Information Committee on 
18th September 2019), Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew and Ms. Lammy Lee.

The primary duties of the Inside Information Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

ensure proper systems and control are in place to collect, review and verify potential inside information;

identify, assess and escalate potential inside information to the attention of the Board; report to the Board on 
the  recommendation  of  the  Inside  Information  Committee,  and  any  matter  in  respect  of  which  it  considers 
that  action  is  needed,  and  its  recommendation  as  to  the  actions  to  be  taken  and  what  information  to  be 
disclosed;

vet and clear announcements or other public disclosures; and to

supervise the Company’s compliance with continuing disclosure obligations.

j. 

Independent Board Committee

The  Independent  Board  Committee  comprising  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah  and  Mr.  So  Gregory  Kam  Leung  was 
established in 2019 for the purpose of advising the independent shareholders of the Company (i) on the terms of 
the Non-exempt Transactions (as defined in the circular of the Company dated 28th November 2019) and on how 
the  independent  shareholders  should  vote  in  relation  to  the  ordinary  resolutions  proposed  for  approving  each  of 
the Non-exempt Transactions at the SGM; and (ii) on the terms of the Transaction (as defined in the circular of the 
Company dated 9th April 2020) and on how the independent shareholders should vote in relation to the ordinary 
resolution  proposed  for  approving  the  Transaction  at  the  annual  general  meeting  to  be  held  on  15th  May  2020, 
respectively.

7979

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

9.  Attendance Records of Board Meetings, Board Committees Meetings and General Meetings

The  attendance  records  of  each  Director  and  each  member  of  the  Board  Committees  of  the  Company  at  the  relevant 
meetings held in year 2019 are as follows:

Actual Attendance/Number of Meetings a Director is entitled to attend

Executive 
Committee

Audit 
Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

Nomination 
Committee

Risk 
Committee

Compliance 
Committee

Finance 
Committee

Share 
Committee

Inside 
Information 
Committee

General 
Meetings

No. of meetings held during the year

Executive Directors
Mr. Xu Lirong (Chairman)
Mr. Wang Haimin 

(Chief Executive Officer) (Note 1)

Mr. Yang Zhijian (Note 2)
Mr. Feng Boming (Note 2)
Mr. Huang Xiaowen (Note 3)
Mr. Zhang Wei (Note 3)

Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew (Note 4)
Mr. Yan Jun
Ms. Wang Dan
Mr. Ip Sing Chi
Ms. Cui Hongqin

Independent Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip
Ms. Chen Ying
Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung (Note 5)
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard (Note 6)

Others
Mr. Zhang Mingwen
Ms. Lammy Lee
Mr. Lam Tuen Pei Pius
Mr. Fung Yee Chung Vincent
Mr. Michael Fitzgerald

Board

5

2/5
4/5

2/2
1/2
3/3
1/3

5/5
3/5
5/5
4/5
5/5

5/5
4/5
4/5
5/5
3/3
2/2

–
–
–
–
–

5

0/5
5/5

1/1
1/1
3/4
0/4

5/5
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–

2

–
–

–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–

2/2
0/2
2/2
2/2
1/1
1/1

–
–
–
–
–

3

–
–

–
N/A
–
2/3

–
–
–
–
–

3/3
–
N/A
–
–
3/3

–
–
–
–
–

2

1/2
–

–
–
–
–

–
1/2
–
–
–

2/2
2/2
2/2
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–

2

–
2/2

N/A
N/A
1/2
0/2

2/2
2/2
2/2
2/2
2/2

2/2
–
–
–
–
–

2/2
2/2
–
–
–

3

–
0/2

0/1
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–

3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3
3/3

1

–
0/1

N/A
–
–
–

1/1
–
–
–
–

1/1
1/1
–
1/1
–
–

1/1
–
–
–
–

0

–
–

–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–

N/A
–
N/A
N/A
–
–

–
–
–
–
–

0

–
N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–

–
N/A
–
–
–

N/A

2

0/2
0/2

0/1
0/1
0/1
0/1

2/2
0/2
0/2
2/2
0/2

2/2
2/2
2/2
2/2
1/1
1/1

–
–
–
–
–

50%

Average attendance rate

82.55%

67.86%

83.33%

88.89%

80%

86.36%

71.43%

83.33%

N/A

Notes:
1. 

appointed as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company with effect from 18th September 2019.

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

appointed as Executive Directors of the Company with effect from 18th September 2019.

resigned as Executive Directors of the Company with effect from 18th September 2019.

re-designated from an Executive Director to a Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 1st January 2020.

appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 17th May 2019.

retired as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 17th May 2019.

80

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

10.  Securities Transactions by Directors

The  Company  has  adopted  its  own  code  of  conduct  regarding  securities  transactions  by  Directors  on  terms  no  less 
exacting than the required standard set out in the Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers 
(the “Model Code”) contained in Appendix 10 to the Listing Rules.

All Directors of the Company have confirmed, following specific enquiry by the Company, that they have fully complied 
with  the  required  standards  set  out  in  both  the  Company’s  own  code  and  the  Model  Code  for  the  year  ended  31st 
December 2019.

11.  Share Interests of Directors and Senior Management

a.  Directors

Directors’ interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out on pages 91 and 92 of this annual report.

b.  Senior Management (Note)

As at 31st December 2019, the number of ordinary shares of the Company held by the senior management of the 
Group are as follows:

Name

Mr. Kenny Ye
Ms. Chen Xiang
Mr. Chen Shuai
Mr. Erxin Yao
Mr. Zhang Mingwen
Mr. Steve Siu
Ms. Lammy Lee
Mr. Michael Fitzgerald
Mr. Raymond Fung
Mr. Teddy Fung

Number of shares held

–
2,000
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

Note: Biographical details of senior management as at 31st December 2019 are set out on pages 57 to 59 of this annual report.

12.  Emoluments of Directors and Senior Management

a.  Emoluments of Directors

The emoluments of the Directors of the Company for the year ended 31st December 2019 are set out on pages 150 
and 151 of this annual report.

8181

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

b.  Emoluments of Senior Management

The emoluments of the senior management of the Group for the year ended 31st December 2019 are set out below:

Emolument bands (US$)

0 – 64,102
128,202 – 192,300
192,301 – 256,400
256,401 – 320,500
320,501 – 384,600
384,601 – 448,700
448,701 – 512,800
512,801 – 576,900
576,901 – 641,000
641,001 – 705,100
705,101 – 769,200
769,201 – 833,300
833,301 – 897,400
897,401 – 961,500

Total

Number of individuals 
2019

1
1
1
0
1
1
0
2
2
0
0
0
2 
1

12 (Note)

Note: Inclusive of two senior management who ceased as senior management during the year 2019. 

B.  ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT

1.  External Auditor

PricewaterhouseCoopers was re-appointed as the Company’s external auditor by the shareholders of the Company at the 
Last AGM until conclusion of the next annual general meeting.

The Company has established a policy on the appointment of external auditor in providing non-audit services, setting 
out the principles by which an external auditor may be appointed to provide non-audit services, with a view to ensuring 
the independence of the external auditor.

The fee in respect of audit and non-audit services provided by the external auditor to the Company for the year ended 
31st December 2019 is set out on page 153 note 11 to the consolidated financial statements of this annual report.

2.  Directors’ and Auditor’s Acknowledgement

All Directors of the Company acknowledged their responsibilities for preparing the consolidated financial statements for 
the year ended 31st December 2019.

PricewaterhouseCoopers,  the  external  auditor  of  the  Company,  acknowledged  the  reporting  responsibilities  in  the 
auditor’s report on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2019.

82

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

3.  Internal Controls

The  Board  is  responsible  for  establishing  and  maintaining  appropriate  and  effective  internal  control  systems  for  the 
Group,  and  through  the  Audit  Committee,  conducts  reviews  of  the  effectiveness  of  such  systems  at  least  annually, 
covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management functions. 
The process used in reviewing the effectiveness of these internal control systems includes discussion with management 
on risk areas identified by management of the Company and principal division of the Group and review of significant 
issues  arising  from  internal  and  external  audits.  The  Company’s  internal  control  systems  comprise  a  well  established 
organisational structure and comprehensive policies and standards. Procedures have been designed to safeguard assets 
against  unauthorised  use  or  disposition,  to  maintain  proper  accounting  records,  for  assurance  of  the  reliability  of 
financial  information  for  internal  use  or  publication,  and  to  ensure  compliance  with  applicable  laws  and  regulations. 
The  purpose  of  the  Company’s  internal  control  is  to  provide  reasonable,  but  not  absolute,  assurance  against  material 
misstatement or loss and to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure in operational systems and achievement of the 
Company’s objectives.

The Board has established the following measures to provide effective internal controls:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

a  distinct  organisational  structure  for  the  principal  division  with  defined  authority  responsibilities  and  control/
measures;

an  annual  budget  for  the  principal  division  allocating  resources  in  accordance  with  identified  and  prioritised 
business opportunities. The annual budget for the principal division is approved by the Board on an annual basis;

a  comprehensive  management  accounting  system  for  the  principal  division  to  provide  financial  and  operational 
performance  indicators  to  the  relevant  management,  and  financial  information  for  reporting  and  disclosure 
purposes. Actual operational results are measured against budget each month. Detailed forecasts for the year and 
long-term forecasts of profit and loss, cash flow and balance sheets are regularly reviewed and updated. Variances 
to budget are analysed and explained and appropriate action taken, if necessary;

systems and procedures are in place to identify, measure, manage and control risks including business, compliance, 
operational,  financial  and  information  services  risks  that  may  have  an  impact  on  the  Group  and  the  principal 
division.  Exposure  to  these  risks  is  monitored  by  the  Executive  Committee  of  the  Company  and  the  board  of 
directors, the executive committee and the management of the principal division;

clearly defined procedures are in place for the control of capital and major expenditure commitments, off-balance 
sheet financial instruments and the supervision, control and review of the investment portfolio; and

the  Internal  Audit  Department  performs  independent  reviews  of  the  risks  and  controls  identified  to  provide 
reasonable  assurance  to  management  of  the  Company  and  principal  division  and  the  Audit  Committee  that 
controls have been set in place and adequately addressed.

The  internal  audit  function,  which  is  centrally  controlled,  monitors  compliance  with  policies  and  standards  as  well  as 
the effectiveness of internal control structures across the Company and the Group. To preserve the independence of the 
internal audit function, the Head of Internal Audit reports functionally to the Audit Committee whose chairman is an 
Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company who has direct access to the Board. Using a risk-based approach, 
the  Internal  Audit  Department  plans  its  internal  audit  schedules  annually  in  consultation  with,  but  independent  of, 
management  of  the  Company  and  the  principal  division.  The  Internal  Audit  Department  has  unrestricted  access  to 
information  that  allows  it  to  review  all  aspects  of  the  Group’s  risk  management,  control  and  governance  processes. 
Independent  reviews  of  different  financial,  business  and  functional  operations  and  activities  are  conducted  with  audit 
resources  being  focused  on  high  risk  areas.  Ad  hoc  reviews  are  also  conducted  on  areas  of  concern  identified  by  the 
Audit Committee and management of the Company and the principal division. The management of the Company and 
the  principal  division  including  the  affected  subsidiary  are  notified  of  the  deficiencies  noted  for  rectification,  and  the 
Internal Audit Department follows up with the implementation of audit recommendations.

8383

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board assesses the effectiveness of the internal control system including detecting 
fraud  and  other  irregularities  by  reviewing  the  Internal  Audit  Department’s  work  and  findings.  On  a  yearly  basis,  the 
Internal Audit Department summarises the major audit findings and other relevant information that have come to the 
Internal Audit Department’s attention during the course of the audits and reports to the Audit Committee.

According to the 2019 Internal Audit report, the Group’s internal control system was functioning effectively, there was 
no significant weakness found in the course of the audits carried out during the year, and there was no change in the 
nature and extent of significant risks as well as the scope and quality of management’s ongoing monitoring of the risks 
and the internal control system. The Audit Committee has concluded that the Group has maintained sound and effective 
internal  controls  to  safeguard  the  Group’s  assets,  and  there  is  an  ongoing  process  in  place  for  identifying,  evaluating 
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The Board, therefore, is of the view that there are no significant 
frauds,  irregularities,  internal  control  deficiencies  or  suspected  infringement  of  laws,  rules  and  regulations  that  cause 
the Board to believe that the systems of internal control are ineffective or inadequate, and there are no significant areas 
of concern which may affect the shareholders of the Company. The Board is satisfied that the Company and the Group 
have fully complied with the code provisions on internal control as set forth in the SEHK Code for the year ended 31st 
December 2019.

To  ensure  on-going  compliance  with  the  SEHK  Code,  the  Audit  Committee  reviewed  the  adequacy  of  staffing  of  the 
accounting, internal audit and financial reporting functions on behalf of the Board and was satisfied with the adequacy 
of  resources,  staff  qualifications  and  experience,  training  programs  and  budget  of  the  Company’s  accounting,  internal 
audit and financial reporting functions.

The  Company  has  implemented  the  following  procedures  and  internal  controls  for  the  handling  and  dissemination  of 
inside information:

a) 

it monitors any inside information and makes appropriate announcement as required by the Listing Rules;

b) 

it conducts its affairs by reference to the “Guidelines on Disclosure of Inside Information” issued by the Securities 
and Futures Commission;

c) 

it has established procedures for handling external affairs about the Group; and

d) 

it has established guidelines to be followed by senior management and employees in dealing with confidential and 
inside information.

4.  Risk Management

The Board acknowledges that risks are inherent in our business and the market in which we operate, and we undertake 
and monitor risks in pursuit of our strategic and business objectives. Our approach is if risks are effectively managed, 
it  can  be  a  value  driver  for  competitive  advantage  and  the  exercising  of  risk  management  abilities  can  become  an 
advantage to differentiate the Group from its competitors.

The Group has built and maintained sound and effective risk management and internal control systems to safeguard the 
Group’s  assets,  but  not  absolute  assurance  against  material  misstatement  or  loss  and  to  manage  rather  than  eliminate 
risks  of  failure  in  operational  systems  and  achievement  of  the  Group’s  strategic  business  objectives.  In  the  context  of 
the  Group’s  capital  structure  and  business  models;  it  would  re-assess  the  risk  appetite  on  a  regular  basis,  taking  into 
consideration  the  Group’s  business  strategy  and  return  targets.  The  risk  strategy  of  the  Group,  adopting  a  proactive 
approach, would be determined upon analysis results for a specific risk through the risk management process; and once 
risk is identified based on the risk strategy, it will be managed so that it can be understood, minimised, transferred or 
contained, through a group-wide risk management framework.

84

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

The Risk Committee delegates to the management, the design and setting of risk management parameters, who would 
work  with  relevant  stakeholders  of  its  business  and  operation  units  to  identify  key  risk  areas  to  be  assessed  and  risk 
control measures formulated to mitigate and guide each local and regional office. The key risk management areas would 
be  regularly  reviewed  to  identify  areas  for  improvement,  from  which  where  necessary,  the  development  of  policies 
and procedures for the Group to manage and control risks that might have an impact on the Group and the principal 
division  including  potential  risks  in  critical  business  areas  that  are  both  strategic  and  operational  levels,  to  ensure 
business  continuity,  to  optimise  business  result,  and  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  relevant  rules  and  regulations. 
The Risk Committee reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems and 
internal audits are conducted as part of ongoing review on the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control 
systems. Emerging risks that may have an impact on the Group are also discussed in the Risk Committee meetings and 
shared with the Audit Committee.

The  Group’s  risk  management  organisation  structure  has  a “top-down”  approach  on  oversight,  risk  identification  and 
assessment, and mitigation of risk at corporate level; and a “bottom-up” approach on risk identification and assessment, 
and mitigation of risk at business unit level and cross functional areas for its risk management.

Based  on  the  Group  risk  management  principles  and  culture  in  taking  justifiable  calculated  risk  in  business  decision 
after identifying the inherent risks, exploring possible mitigation and assessing all relevant costs and benefits as a result 
of the decision; and promoting a risk-intelligent culture in the organisation, in which a risk-averse, risk-seeking or risk-
neutral attitude might be adopted as and when the circumstances justified; risk management policy is set up to ensure 
common understanding of risk principles and encouraging a risk intelligent culture on a group-wide level. Our policies 
and guidelines are periodically reviewed and amended when considered necessary in line with the dynamic changes in 
our business environment and operations.

The Group has (i) a formalised enterprise risk management (“ERM”) process, taking into consideration of the Group’s 
organisation  structure  and  nature  of  business;  and  (ii)  developed  a  risk  register  with  a  principal  risk  dashboard  that 
summarises major risks whose potential consequences are significant at group level and may trigger risk events that in 
aggregate, become significant to the Group as at a given time, and a functional risk dashboard. This provides a point-in-
time assessment of the risk profile of the Group for the Risk Committee and the Board on the nature and extent of the 
risks faced by the Group.

The  Group  has  adopted  an  activity-based  “three  lines  of  defence”  risk  governance  model  to  delegate  and  coordinate 
essential risk management and control duties in a clear and cohesive manner:

a)  First line of defence – Functional units establish risk and control environments in the Group’s day-to-day business 
operations, and  as  risk owners,  are responsible  for  risk  identification,  formulation of  risk mitigation  strategy and 
upward reporting of risk monitoring progress;

b) 

Second  line  of  defence  –  The  Risk  Management  Department  monitors  the  risk  management  system  and  internal 
control  systems  to  ensure  its  effectiveness  and  facilitates  the  development  and  setting  of  policies  and  guidelines 
and its effective implementation of the risk management and internal control systems. It also provides advice and 
guidance to the first-line functional units on implementation of the risk management and internal control systems; 
and

c)  Third line of defence – The Internal Audit Department provides independent review on the effectiveness of the risk 

management and internal control systems.

The  Group’s  ERM  process  is  underpinned  by  its  risk  culture,  which  is  aligned  to  the  overall  ethics  and  culture  of 
the  Group.  The  ERM  process  consists  of  eight  process  components:  internal  environment,  objective  setting,  risk 
identification, risk assessment, risk response, control activities, communication and monitoring; and is used to identify, 
evaluate and manage the significant risks to the Group. The functional units translate the risk events and incorporate the 
Group  risk  appetite  into  quantitative  tolerance  limits  to  monitor  and  manage  the  identified  material  risks  in  line  with 
the Board’s strategy; before communicating their recommended mitigation plans to the Risk Management Department. 
The  Group  risk  register  allows  categorisation  and  prioritisation  of  risks,  risk  documentation  and  reporting,  and  the 
monitoring of the ongoing development of risks.

8585

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

For the year ended 31st December 2019, following management confirmation to the Risk Committee on its scope and 
quality  of  its  ongoing  risks  monitoring  and  internal  control  systems;  and  satisfaction  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  risk 
management and internal control systems with no significant control failings or weaknesses and no significant areas of 
concern identified which might affect the shareholders of the Company, the Risk Committee has reported twice to the 
Board on their review and confirmation of its satisfaction on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and 
internal control systems, including the scope and quality of the Group’s ongoing monitoring of risks.

The  Board  confirmed  that  the  Group’s  risk  management  and  internal  control  systems  are  functioning  adequately  and 
effectively. The Board is satisfied that the Company and the Group have fully complied with the code provisions on risk 
management as set forth in the SEHK Code for the year ended 31st December 2019.

C.  COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS

The  Company  attaches  great  importance  to  communications  with  the  shareholders  of  the  Company.  Extensive  information 
on  the  Group’s  activities,  business  strategy  and  developments  is  provided  in  the  Company’s  annual  reports  and  interim 
reports. Shareholders of the Company are encouraged to attend the general meetings of the Company which offer a valuable 
forum for dialogue and interaction with management of the Company. The Chairman of the Board and the chairpersons of 
the  Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee,  the  Nomination  Committee  and  other  Board  committees,  or  in  their 
absence,  other  members  of  the  relevant  committees,  are  available  at  the  annual  general  meetings  to  answer  questions  from 
shareholders on the business of the Group. A separate resolution would be proposed by the Chairman in respect of each issue 
at the general meetings.

The  Company  has  also  established  a  shareholders’  communication  policy  to  ensure  shareholders  are  provided  with  ready, 
equal and timely access to balanced and understandable information about the Company. The policy is regularly reviewed to 
ensure its effectiveness and is available on written request to the Company Secretary.

Since the publication of the Company’s 2010 interim report, the Company has offered to the shareholders of the Company 
the  following  options  to  choose  the  language  and  means  of  receipt  of  the  corporate  communications  of  the  Company  in 
support of environment protection and for the purpose of saving printing and mailing costs:

(1) 

to  read  the  corporate  communication  published  on  the  Company’s  website  at  http://www.ooilgroup.com  in  place  of 
receiving  printed  copies,  and  receive  an  e-mail  notification  or  a  printed  notification  letter  (as  the  case  may  be)  of  the 
publication of the corporate communication on website; or

(2) 

to  receive  either  the  printed  English  version,  the  printed  Chinese  version  or  both  the  printed  English  and  Chinese 
versions of the Company’s corporate communication.

D.  SHAREHOLDERS’ RIGHTS

1.  Convening a special general meeting

Pursuant to the Bermuda Companies Act and the Company’s Bye-law, the shareholder(s) of the Company holding not 
less than one-tenth of the paid up capital of the Company having the right to vote at general meetings of the Company 
shall have the right, by written requisition sent to the Company’s registered office at Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, 
Hamilton  HM11,  Bermuda  and  to  the  Company’s  principal  office  at  31st  Floor,  Harbour  Centre,  25  Harbour  Road, 
Wanchai, Hong Kong, for the attention of the Company Secretary of the Company, to require a special general meeting 
to be called by the Board for the transaction of any business specified in such requisition.

The written requisition must state the purposes of the general meeting, signed by the shareholder(s) concerned and may 
consist of several documents in like form, each signed by one or more of those shareholders.

Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  Company’s  branch  share  registrar  (the  “Registrar”)  that  the  shareholder(s) 
submitting  the  requisition  is/are  qualified  to  attend  and  vote  at  any  general  meeting,  the  Company  will  convene  a 
special general meeting by serving sufficient notice in accordance with the statutory requirements to all the registered 
shareholders of the Company.

86

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

2.  Putting forward proposals at general meetings

The shareholder(s) of the Company holding (i) not less than one-twentieth of the total voting rights of all shareholders 
having the right to vote at the general meeting of the Company; or (ii) not less than 100 shareholders of the Company, 
can submit:

(i)  a written request stating the resolution intended to be moved at an annual general meeting; or

(ii)  a statement of not more than 1,000 words with respect to the matter referred to in any proposed resolution or the 

business to be dealt with at a particular general meeting.

The  written  request/statement  must  be  signed  by  the  shareholder(s)  concerned  and  deposited  at  the  Company’s 
registered office at Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda and to the Company’s principal office 
at 31st Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong, for the attention of the Company Secretary of 
the Company, not less than six weeks before the annual general meeting in the case of a requisition requiring notice of a 
resolution, and not less than one week before the general meeting in the case of any other requisition.

Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  Registrar  of  the  Company  that  the  shareholder(s)  making  the  proposal  is/are 
qualified to attend and vote at the general meeting, the Company will:

(i) 

include the resolution in the agenda for the annual general meeting; or

(ii)  circulate the statement for the general meeting,

provided that the shareholder(s) concerned has deposited a sum of money sufficient to meet the Company’s expenses in 
serving the notice of the resolution and/or circulating the statement to all the registered shareholders.

3.  Putting enquiries to the Board

Shareholders  who  have  enquiries  to  put  to  the  Board  of  the  Company  may  write  to  the  Company  Secretary  of  the 
Company at 31st Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong.

4.  Dividends

Shareholders  of  the  same  class  of  shares  shall  have  equal  rights  to  dividends  and  distributions.  In  2018,  the  Company 
has formally adopted a dividend policy (the “Dividend Policy”) that balances the objectives of appropriately rewarding 
the  shareholders  for  their  investment  and  retaining  reserves  for  long-term  development  and  future  expansion  of  the 
Company, and enhances transparency facilitating shareholders and investors to make informed investment decisions.

The  Dividend  Policy  has  a  target  annual  dividend  payout  of  25%  of  the  consolidated  net  profit  attributed  to  the 
shareholders  of  the  Company  in  any  financial  year  whether  as  interim  and/or  final  dividends,  subject  to,  inter  alia, 
the  financial  performance,  liquidity  position,  future  plans  and  working  capital  requirements  of  the  Company  and  the 
prevailing economic, financial, business and regulatory circumstances. The Company may also declare special dividends 
from time to time in addition to the semi-annual dividends.

The  declaration  of  dividends  is  subject  to  the  sole  discretion  of  the  Board.  There  can  be  no  assurance  that  dividends 
will  be  paid  in  any  particular  amount  of  any  given  period.  The  Dividend  Policy  shall  not  constitute  a  legally  binding 
document in respect of future dividend declaration of the Company and/or in no way oblige the Company to declare a 
dividend at any time or from time to time. The distribution and payment of dividends of the Company will be subject to 
compliance with the Company’s Bye-laws and applicable laws and regulations.

Details of the dividend paid by the Company during the year 2019 are set out on page 155 of this annual report.

8787

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Corporate Governance Report

E.  INVESTOR RELATIONS

The Company continues to promote and enhance investor relations and communication with its investors. The Company’s 
investor  relations  team  maintains  regular  dialogue  with  institutional  investors,  analysts  and  fund  managers  to  keep  them 
abreast of the Group’s development.

Shareholders, investors and members of the public are able to access up-to-date corporate information and events related to 
the Group on the Company’s website.

1.  Shareholdings Information

As at 31st December 2019:

Authorised  share  capital:  US$205,000,000,  comprising  900,000,000  ordinary  shares  of  US$0.1  each,  65,000,000  limited 
voting convertible redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each and 50,000,000 redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each.

Issued and fully-paid up capital: US$62,579,329.7 comprising 625,793,297 ordinary shares of US$0.1 each.

Details of the shareholding of the ordinary shares of the Company by the type of shareholders as at 31st December 2019 
are as follows:

Type of Shareholders

Corporate
Individual

Total

Number of 
Shareholders

Shareholders 
% of total

Number 
of Shares

624,715,637
1,077,660

3.2986%
96.7014%

19
557

576

100%

625,793,297

Details of the shareholding of the ordinary shares of the Company by range as at 31st December 2019 are as follows:

Size of shareholdings

1 – 10,000

10,001 – 100,000

100,001 – 1,000,000

1,000,001 or above

Total

2.  Public Float

Number of 

Shareholders 

Shareholders

558

14

1

3

576

% of total

96.8750%

2.4306%

0.1736%

0.5208%

100%

Based  on  information  that  is  publicly  available  to  the  Company  and  within  the  knowledge  of  the  Directors  of  the 
Company, the Company maintained at least 25% of public float as at 31st December 2019.

3.  Financial Calendar

Important dates for the coming financial year are set out on page 60 of this annual report.

4.  Memorandum of Association and Bye-Laws

There are no changes to the memorandum of association and bye-laws of the Company during the year 2019, and the 
consolidated version is available on the websites of the Company and the Stock Exchange.

88

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Report of the Directors

Report of the Directors

The  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Company  (the  “Board”)  presents  this  report  together  with  the  audited  consolidated  financial 
statements for the year ended 31st December 2019.

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The principal activity of the Company is investment holding and the activities of its principal subsidiaries, associated companies 
and joint ventures are set out on pages 190 to 199 of this annual report.

GROUP RESULTS
The consolidated results of the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Group”) are set out on page 108 of 
this annual report.

DIVIDENDS
An interim dividend of US6.66 cents (HK$0.519) per ordinary share and a special dividend of US$1.60 (HK$12.48) per ordinary 
share were paid on 25th October 2019 and 3rd February 2020 respectively.

The Board has recommended the payment of a final dividend of US2.69 cents (HK$0.210 at the exchange rate of US$1: HK$7.8) 
and a special dividend of US24.0 cents (HK$1.872 at the exchange rate of US$1: HK$7.8) per ordinary share for the year ended 
31st  December  2019  to  be  paid  on  23rd  June  2020  to  the  shareholders  of  the  Company  whose  names  appear  on  the  register  of 
members of the Company on 26th May 2020. Shareholders should complete the dividend election form (if applicable) and return 
it  to  the  Company’s  Hong  Kong  branch  share  registrar,  Computershare  Hong  Kong  Investor  Services  Limited  at  17M  Floor, 
Hopewell Centre, 183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong, not later than 4:30 p.m. on 12th June 2020.

BUSINESS REVIEW
A  review  of  the  business  of  the  Group  and  an  analysis  of  the  Group’s  performance  during  the  year  are  provided  in  Chairman’s 
Statement on pages 12 to 15, Operations Review on pages 16 to 25 and Financial Review sections on pages 34 to 49 of this annual 
report.  Description  of  the  principal  risks  and  uncertainties  that  the  Group  is  facing  can  be  found  in  Chairman’s  Statement  on 
pages 12 to 15 and Operations Review on pages 16 to 25. Also, the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group 
can  be  found  in  note  3  to  the  consolidated  financial  statements.  Important  events  affecting  the  Group  that  have  occurred  since 
the  end  of  the  financial  year  ended  31st  December  2019  can  be  found  in  note  51  to  the  consolidated  financial  statements.  The 
Group’s future business development is provided in Chairman’s Statement on pages 12 to 15 and Operations Review on pages 16 
to 25 of this annual report. In addition, discussions on the Group’s environmental policies and performance and compliance with 
the relevant laws and regulations and an account of the Group’s key relationships with its employees, customers and suppliers and 
stakeholders, that have a significant impact on the Group are contained in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 26 to 33 
of this annual report and in the Company’s 2019 Sustainability Report to be published in accordance with the Rules Governing the 
Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”).

8989

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Report of the Directors

DIRECTORS
The Directors of the Company during the year and up to the date of this report were:

Executive Directors

Mr. Xu Lirong (Chairman)
Mr. Wang Haimin (Chief Executive Officer) (Note 1)
Mr. Yang Zhijian (Note 2)
Mr. Feng Boming (Note 2)
Mr. Huang Xiaowen (Note 3)
Mr. Zhang Wei (Note 3)

Non-Executive Directors

Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew (Note 4)
Mr. Yan Jun
Ms. Wang Dan
Mr. Ip Sing Chi
Ms. Cui Hongqin

Independent Non-Executive Directors

Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip
Ms. Chen Ying
Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung (Note 5)
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard (Note 6)

Notes:

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

appointed as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company with effect from 18th September 2019.

appointed as Executive Directors of the Company with effect from 18th September 2019.

resigned as Executive Directors of the Company with effect from 18th September 2019.

re-designated from an Executive Director to a Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 1st January 2020.

appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 17th May 2019.

retired as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 17th May 2019.

In accordance with bye-laws 87(2) and 87(3) of the Bye-laws of the Company (the “Bye-laws”), Mr. Wang Haimin, Mr. Tung Lieh 
Cheung Andrew, Mr. Ip Sing Chi, Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah and Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson will retire by rotation and, being 
eligible,  will  offer  themselves  for  re-election  at  the  annual  general  meeting  of  the  Company  to  be  held  on  15th  May  2020  (the 
“Annual General Meeting”).

None  of  the  Directors  has  a  service  contract  with  the  Company  or  any  of  its  subsidiaries  which  is  not  determinable  by  the 
employing company within one year without payment of compensation, other than statutory compensation.

The  Company  has  received  from  each  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company,  confirmation  of  his/her 
independence pursuant to rule 3.13 of the Listing Rules and considers all of them are independent.

90

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Report of the Directors

DIRECTORS’ RIGHTS TO ACQUIRE SHARES OR DEBENTURES
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries was a party to any arrangement to enable the Directors of the Company to acquire 
benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate at any time during 
the year or at the end of the year.

DIRECTORS’ AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S INTERESTS

1.  Significant Contracts

The Group shares the rental of office premises at Harbour Centre, Hong Kong on an actual cost reimbursement basis with 
Island Navigation Corporation International Limited (“INCIL”), which is owned by trusts related to Tung family members, 
to whom Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew, a Non-Executive Director of the Company, is related. The total amount of rental on 
an actual cost reimbursement basis paid by INCIL to the Group for the year ended 31st December 2019 was approximately 
US$1,813,000.

Except for the above (other than contracts amongst Group companies), no other contracts or arrangements of significance in 
relation to the Group’s business to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party, and in which a Director of the 
Company had a material interest, subsisted at the year end or at any time during the year.

2.  Shares

As at 31st December 2019, the issued share capital of the Company consisted of 625,793,297 ordinary shares (the “Shares”). 
The  interests  and  short  positions  of  the  Directors  and  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Company  in  the  Shares,  the  underlying 
Shares  and  the  debentures  of  the  Company  or  any  of  its  associated  corporations  (within  the  meaning  of  Part  XV  of  the 
Securities and Futures Ordinance (“SFO”)) as recorded in the register kept by the Company pursuant to Section 352 of the 
SFO or otherwise notified to the Company and The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Stock Exchange”) pursuant 
to  the  Model  Code  for  Securities  Transactions  by  Directors  of  Listed  Issuers  (the  “Model  Code”)  contained  in  the  Listing 
Rules, were as follows as at 31st December 2019:

(a)  Long positions in the Shares, underlying Shares and debentures of the Company:

Nil.

(b)  Long Positions in the shares, underlying shares and debentures of associated corporations of the Company:

Name of 
associated 
corporation

Name of 
Director

Capacity

Number of 
ordinary 
shares held 
as personal 
interest

Number of 
outstanding 
share options 
granted

Total number 
of interests

COSCO SHIPPING 
Holdings Co., Ltd.

Yang Zhijian

Beneficial 
owner

100,000
(H Shares)

Nil

100,000

COSCO SHIPPING 
Development  
Co., Ltd.

Feng Boming

Interest of 
spouse

Nil

530,000
(A Shares) 
(Note 2)

530,000

Yang Zhijian

Beneficial 
owner

400,000
(H Shares)

Nil

400,000

Feng Boming

Beneficial 
owner

29,100 
(A Shares)

Nil

29,100

Approximate 
percentage 
of total 
issued share 
capital of 
the relevant 
class of the 
associated 
corporation

0.00388% 
(Note 1)

0.01% 
(Note 1)

0.01% 
(Note 3)

0.00037% 
(Note 3)

9191

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Report of the Directors

Notes:

(1)  The  shareholding  percentage  in  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  Co.,  Ltd.  (“COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings”)  is  calculated  on  the  basis  of 
2,580,600,000 H shares of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings in issue and 9,678,929,227 A shares of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings in issue as at 31st 

December 2019 (as the case may be).

(2)  These share options were held by the spouse of Mr. Feng Boming as beneficial owner, therefore, Mr. Feng Boming is deemed to be interested in 

same shares.

The share options were granted on 3rd June 2019 under the Share Option Incentive Scheme of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings (the “Scheme”) 
at  an  exercise  price  of  RMB4.10  per  A  share  (subject  to  adjustment  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  requirements  under  the  Scheme  upon 

the occurrence of the adjustment events before the exercise of the share options). According to the terms of the Scheme, the Scheme is valid 
for  10  years  from  30th  May  2019  and  the  share  options  shall  be  vested  24  months  after  the  date  of  grant  (the “Vesting  Period”).  Subject  to 
the  fulfilment  of  the  relevant  conditions  of  exercise,  these  share  options  shall  be  exercisable  in  three  batches  after  the  expiry  of  the  Vesting 

Period, i.e. (a) the exercise period of 33% of the share options will commence on the first trading day after expiration of the 24-month period 

from the date of grant and ending on the last trading day of the 36-month period from the date of grant; (b) the exercise period of 33% of the 

share options will commence on the first trading day after expiration of the 36-month period from the date of grant and ending on the last 

trading day of the 48-month period from the date of grant; and (c) the exercise period of 34% of the share options will commence on the first 

trading day after expiration of the 48-month period from the date of grant and ending on the last trading day of the 84-month period from 

the date of grant. Details of the Scheme are set out in the announcement dated 3rd June 2019 of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings (A shares). No 

consideration was paid by the grantees for the acceptance of the share options.

(3)  The shareholding percentage in COSCO SHIPPING Development Co., Ltd. (“COSCO SHIPPING Development”) is calculated on the basis of 
3,676,000,000 H shares of COSCO SHIPPING Development in issue and 7,932,125,000 A shares of COSCO SHIPPING Development in issue 

as at 31st December 2019 (as the case may be).

Save  as  disclosed  above,  as  at  31st  December  2019,  none  of  the  Directors  or  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Company  had  any 
interest  or  short  position  in  the  Shares,  the  underlying  Shares  and  the  debentures  of  the  Company  or  any  of  its  associated 
corporation (within the meaning of the SFO) which were required to be: (a) notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange 
pursuant to Divisions 7 and 8 of Part XV of the SFO (including interests and short positions which they are taken or deemed 
to have under such provisions of the SFO); or (b) entered in the register kept by the Company pursuant to Section 352 of the 
SFO; or (c) notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange pursuant to the Model Code.

3.  Directors’ Interests in Competing Business

China COSCO SHIPPING Corporation Limited (“COSCO SHIPPING”), an indirect controlling shareholder of the Company, 
its  subsidiaries  or  its  associates  are  engaged  in  the  same  business  of  container  shipping,  management  and  operation  of 
container  terminals  and/or  logistic  services  (the  “Competing  Companies”)  as  the  Group.  During  the  year  of  2019,  Mr. 
Xu  Lirong,  Mr.  Wang  Haimin,  Mr.  Yang  Zhijian  and  Mr.  Feng  Boming,  the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Company,  and  Mr. 
Huang  Xiaowen  and  Mr.  Zhang  Wei,  the  then  Executive  Directors  of  the  Company,  were  holding  directorships  and/or 
senior  management  positions  in  COSCO  SHIPPING,  its  subsidiaries  or  its  associates;  Dr.  Chung  Shui  Ming  Timpson,  the 
Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company, was an external director of COSCO SHIPPING; Mr. Yang Liang Yee 
Philip,  the  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company,  was  an  independent  non-executive  director  of  COSCO 
SHIPPING Holdings; and Ms. Chen Ying, the Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company, was an external director 
of a subsidiary of COSCO SHIPPING.

As  the  Board  of  the  Company  is  independent  of  the  board  of  directors  of  the  Competing  Companies,  the  Directors  of  the 
Company are of the view that the Group is capable of carrying on its business independently of, and at arm’s length from the 
businesses of the Competing Companies.

Save as disclosed above, so far as the Directors of the Company were aware, none of the Directors of the Company or their 
respective  close  associates  (as  defined  in  the  Listing  Rules)  had  any  interest  in  a  business  which  competed  or  was  likely  to 
compete, either directly or indirectly, with the business of the Group during the year.

92

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Report of the Directors

MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS
No contracts concerning the management and administration of the whole or any substantial part of any business of the Company 
were entered into during the year or subsisted at the end of the year.

SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS’ SHARE INTERESTS
As at 31st December 2019, the following persons (other than the Directors or the Chief Executive of the Company) had an interest 
or short position in the Shares and the underlying Shares which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of 
Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO as recorded in the register required to be kept by the Company under Section 336 of the 
SFO:

Name

Nature of interest

Number of Shares interested 
(Long position)

Percentage

Faulkner Global Holdings Limited

Beneficial owner

469,344,972

COSCO SHIPPING Holdings 

(Hong Kong) Limited

Interest of controlled 
corporation

469,344,972 (Note 1)

COSCO SHIPPING Holdings Co., Ltd.

China Ocean Shipping Company Limited

China COSCO SHIPPING Corporation 

Limited

Interest of controlled 
corporation

Interest of controlled 
corporation

Interest of controlled 
corporation

469,344,972 (Note 2)

469,344,972 (Note 3)

469,344,972 (Notes 3 & 4)

Shanghai Port Group (BVI) Development 

Beneficial owner

61,953,536

Co., Limited

Shanghai International Port Group 

(HK) Co., Ltd.

Interest of controlled 
corporation

Shanghai International Port (Group) 

Co., Ltd.

Interest of controlled 
corporation

61,953,536 (Note 5)

61,953,536 (Note 6)

PSD Investco Inc.

Beneficial owner

38,513,150

Green Amber Investment Limited

Silk Road Fund Co., Ltd.

Buttonwood Investment Platform Ltd.

Interest of controlled 
corporation

Interest of controlled 
corporation

Interest of controlled 
corporation

38,513,150 (Note 7)

38,513,150 (Note 8)

38,513,150 (Note 9)

75%

75%

75%

75%

75%

9.90%

9.90%

9.90%

6.15%

6.15%

6.15%

6.15%

9393

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Report of the Directors

Notes:

1. 

COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  (Hong  Kong)  Limited  (“COSCO  SHIPPING  HK”)  holds  100%  of  the  shares  of  Faulkner  Global  Holdings  Limited 
(“Faulkner”) and, accordingly, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Faulkner has an interest.

2. 

COSCO SHIPPING Holdings holds 100% of the shares of COSCO SHIPPING HK and, accordingly, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in 

which COSCO SHIPPING HK has an interest.

3. 

China Ocean Shipping Company Limited (“China Ocean”) holds 37.89% of the shares of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings by itself and its subsidiaries, 
and, accordingly, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which COSCO SHIPPING Holdings has an interest. COSCO SHIPPING holds 8.33% 
of  the  shares  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings.  Both  China  Ocean  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  are  state-owned  enterprises  established  in  the  People’s 
Republic of China.

4. 

COSCO SHIPPING holds 100% of the shares of China Ocean and, accordingly, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which China Ocean has 

an interest.

5. 

Shanghai International Port Group (HK) Co., Ltd. (“SIPG HK”) holds 100% of the shares of Shanghai Port Group (BVI) Development Co., Limited 
(“SIPG BVI”) and, accordingly, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which SIPG BVI has an interest.

6. 

Shanghai International Port (Group) Co., Ltd. holds 100% of the shares of SIPG HK and, accordingly, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in 

which SIPG HK has an interest.

7. 

8. 

Green Amber Investment Limited (“Green Amber”) holds 100% of the shares of PSD Investco Inc. (“PSD”) and, accordingly, has an indirect interest 
in the same Shares in which PSD has an interest.

Silk Road Fund Co., Ltd. (“Silk Road Fund”) holds 100% of the shares of Green Amber and, accordingly, has an indirect interest in the same Shares 
in which Green Amber has an interest.

9. 

Buttonwood  Investment  Platform  Ltd.  holds  65%  of  the  shares  of  Silk  Road  Fund  and,  accordingly,  has  an  indirect  interest  in  the  same  Shares  in 

which Silk Road Fund has an interest.

Save as disclosed herein, as at 31st December 2019, the Company has not been notified by any person (other than the Directors 
or the Chief Executive of the Company) who had an interest or short position in the Shares or the underlying Shares which were 
required to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO, or which were recorded 
in the register required to be kept by the Company under Section 336 of the SFO.

CONNECTED TRANSACTIONS
Pursuant  to  Chapter  14A  of  the  Listing  Rules,  details  of  the  Company’s  continuing  connected  transactions  and  connected 
transactions during the year 2019 are as follows:

1.  Continuing Connected Transactions

COSCO  SHIPPING  indirectly  controls  more  than  50%  of  the  issued  share  capital  of  the  Company.  Accordingly,  COSCO 
SHIPPING  and  its  subsidiaries  and  associates  as  defined  under  the  Listing  Rules  (collectively  the  “COSCO  SHIPPING 
Group”) are connected persons of the Company. Transactions contemplated under each of the following master agreements 
constitute continuing connected transactions (the “Continuing Connected Transactions”) of the Company.

94

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Report of the Directors

a)  Business Master Agreement

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 24th July 2018 entered into between the Company (for itself and on behalf of its 
subsidiaries  and  associates)  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  (for  itself  and  on  behalf  of  its  subsidiaries  and  associates),  both 
parties agreed to provide and to procure members of its group to provide to each other services related to containerised 
liner,  logistics,  information  technology  and  other  contractual  arrangements  (the  “Business  Master  Agreement”).  The 
Business  Master  Agreement  expired  on  31st  December  2019  and  the  term  was  renewed  for  three  years  commencing 
from  1st  January  2020.  Details  of  the  terms  and  the  annual  caps  for  the  financial  years  of  2020,  2021  and  2022 
respectively are set out in the circular of the Company dated 28th November 2019.

The  following  table  is  a  summary  of  the  transaction  amounts  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2019  and  the  2019 
annual cap for each of the transactions contemplated under the Business Master Agreement.

Types of services under 
the Business Master Agreement

Provision of services by COSCO SHIPPING Group
(A)  Liner services

(i)  network services
(ii)  operation services
(iii)  vessel operating common carrier services
(iv)  other services, including

– information technology services
– vessels (Note)

(B)  Logistics services including non-vessel operating common carrier 

services, international supply chain services, and domestic logistics 
services

(C)  Other contractual arrangements, including office leases

(D)  Other services, including use of common facilities, ad-hoc use of 

business facilities and crew manning service/manning agency service

Provision of services to COSCO SHIPPING Group
(A)  Liner services

(i)  network services
(ii)  operation services
(iii)  vessel operating common carrier services
(iv)  other services, including

– information technology services
– vessels (Note)

(B)  Logistics services including non-vessel operating common carrier 

services, international supply chain services, and domestic logistics 
services

(C)  Other contractual arrangements, including office leases

(D)  Other services, including use of common facilities, ad-hoc use of 

business facilities and crew manning service/manning agency service

Transaction 
amounts
for year 2019
(US$’000)

Annual Caps
Year 2019
(US$’000)

89,590
111,885
–

–
48,676

8,640

352

1,147

11,517
1,151
75,511

9,177
7,426

2,186

26

–

119,000
132,000
2,400

2,400
66,153

11,000

6,000

9,600

72,000
6,000
132,000

67,597
28,000

7,200

6,000

6,000

9595

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Report of the Directors

Note: Given the independent nature of vessel services conducted under the Business Master Agreement, such services were segregated from the 

Business Master Agreement and are covered under the Vessel Services Master Agreement commencing from 1st January 2020. Details of 

the Vessel Services Master Agreement are set out in item (e) below.

b)  Bunker Master Agreement

Pursuant  to  a  master  agreement  dated  24th  July  2018  entered  into  between  the  Company  (for  itself  and  on  behalf  of 
its  subsidiaries  and  associates)  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  (for  itself  and  on  behalf  of  its  subsidiaries  and  associates), 
COSCO SHIPPING Group agreed to sell and to procure members of its group to sell bunker, fuel and oil to the Group 
(the  “Bunker  Master  Agreement”).  The  Bunker  Master  Agreement  expired  on  31st  December  2019  and  the  term  was 
renewed for three years commencing from 1st January 2020. Details of the terms and the annual caps for the financial 
years of 2020, 2021 and 2022 respectively are set out in the announcement of the Company dated 30th October 2019.

The  following  table  is  a  summary  of  the  transaction  amounts  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2019  and  the  2019 
annual cap for the transactions contemplated under the Bunker Master Agreement.

Transaction 

amounts

Annual Cap 

for year 2019
(US$’000)

Year 2019 
(US$’000)

Purchase of bunker, fuel and oil from COSCO SHIPPING Group

230,280

280,000

c)  Terminal Master Agreement

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 24th July 2018 entered into between the Company (for itself and on behalf of its 
subsidiaries  and  associates)  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  (for  itself  and  on  behalf  of  its  subsidiaries  and  associates),  both 
parties  agreed  to  provide  and  to  procure  members  of  its  group  to  provide  to  each  other  terminal  services  and  related 
services (the “Terminal Master Agreement”). The Terminal Master Agreement expired on 31st December 2019 and the 
term was renewed for three years commencing from 1st January 2020. Details of the terms and the annual caps for the 
financial  years  of  2020,  2021  and  2022  respectively  are  set  out  in  the  circular  of  the  Company  dated  28th  November 
2019.

The  following  table  is  a  summary  of  the  transaction  amounts  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2019  and  the  annual 
cap for each of the transactions contemplated under the Terminal Master Agreement for the financial year ended 31st 
December 2019.

Provision of services by COSCO SHIPPING Group
Provision of services to COSCO SHIPPING Group

Transaction 

amounts

Annual Caps

for year 2019
(US$’000)

107,097
39,633

Year 2019
(US$’000)

280,000
96,000

96

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Report of the Directors

d)  Equipment Procurement Master Agreement

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 24th July 2018 entered into between the Company (for itself and on behalf of its 
subsidiaries  and  associates)  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  (for  itself  and  on  behalf  of  its  subsidiaries  and  associates),  both 
parties agreed to provide and to procure members of its group to provide to each other services relating to equipment 
procurement  including  container  acquisition  and  pooling  (the  “Equipment  Procurement  Master  Agreement”).  The 
Equipment Procurement Master Agreement expired on 31st December 2019 and the term was renewed for three years 
commencing from 1st January 2020. Details of the terms and the annual caps for the financial years of 2020, 2021 and 
2022 respectively are set out in the circular of the Company dated 28th November 2019.

The following table is a summary of the transaction amounts for the year ended 31st December 2019 and the annual cap 
for each of the transactions contemplated under the Equipment Procurement Master Agreement for the financial year 
ended 31st December 2019.

Provision of services by COSCO SHIPPING Group
Provision of services to COSCO SHIPPING Group

e)  Vessel Services Master Agreement

Transaction 

amounts

Annual Caps 

for year 2019
(US$’000)

Year 2019 
(US$’000)

62,162
8,157

280,000
20,000

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 30th October 2019 entered into between the Company (for itself and on behalf 
of  its  subsidiaries  and  associates)  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  (for  itself  and  on  behalf  of  its  subsidiaries  and  associates), 
both parties agreed to provide and to procure members of its group to provide to each other vessel services, including 
vessel  chartering,  vessel  supervision,  and  other  vessel-related  services  (the  “Vessel  Services  Master  Agreement”).  The 
Vessel Services Master Agreement is for a term of three years commencing from 1st January 2020 and ending on 31st 
December  2022  and  is  subject  to  renewal  for  successive  periods  of  three  years.  Details  of  the  terms  of  Vessel  Services 
Master  Agreement  and  the  annual  caps  for  the  financial  years  of  2020,  2021  and  2022  respectively  are  set  out  in  the 
circular of the Company dated 28th November 2019.

f)  Financial Services Master Agreement

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 30th October 2019 entered into between the Company (for itself and on behalf 
of  its  subsidiaries  and  associates)  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  (for  itself  and  on  behalf  of  its  subsidiaries  and  associates), 
COSCO  SHIPPING  Group  agreed  to  provide  and  to  procure  members  of  its  group  to  provide  deposit  service,  loan 
service and other financial services to the Group (the “Financial Services Master Agreement”). The Financial Services 
Master  Agreement  is  for  a  term  of  three  years  commencing  from  1st  January  2020  and  ending  on  31st  December 
2022  and  is  subject  to  renewal  for  successive  periods  of  three  years.  Details  of  the  terms  of  Financial  Services  Master 
Agreement and the annual caps for the financial years of 2020, 2021 and 2022 respectively are set out in the circular of 
the Company dated 28th November 2019.

Pursuant to rule 14A.55 of the Listing Rules, the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company, namely Mr. Chow 
Philip Yiu Wah, Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson, Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip, Ms. Chen Ying and Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung, 
have  reviewed  the  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  and  confirmed  that  the  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  have 
been entered into (a) in the ordinary and usual course of business of the Group; (b) on normal commercial terms or better; 
and (c) according to the relevant agreements governing them on terms that are fair and reasonable and in the interests of the 
shareholders of the Company as a whole.

9797

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Report of the Directors

The  Company’s  auditor  was  engaged  to  report  on  the  Group’s  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  in  accordance  with 
Hong  Kong  Standard  on  Assurance  Engagements  3000  (Revised)  “Assurance  Engagements  Other  Than  Audits  or  Reviews 
of  Historical  Financial  Information”  and  with  reference  to  Practice  Note  740  “Auditor’s  Letter  on  Continuing  Connected 
Transactions  under  the  Hong  Kong  Listing  Rules”  issued  by  the  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified  Public  Accountants.  The 
auditor  has  issued  his  unqualified  letter  containing  the  findings  and  conclusions  in  respect  of  the  Continuing  Connected 
Transactions as disclosed above in accordance with rule 14A.56 of the Listing Rules and nothing has come to his attention 
that causes him to believe that the disclosed Continuing Connected Transactions:

(i)  have not been approved by the Board;

(ii)  which involve provision of goods or services by the Group, were not entered into, in all material respects, in accordance 

with the pricing policies of the Group;

(iii)  were not entered into, in all material respects, in accordance with the relevant agreements governing the transactions; 

and

(iv)  have  exceeded  the  maximum  aggregate  annual  caps  in  respect  of  each  of  the  disclosed  Continuing  Connected 

Transactions.

2.  Connected Transactions

On  29th  March  2019,  Gold  Talent  (HK)  Limited  (“Gold  Talent”),  an  indirectly  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  the  Company, 
entered into the following agreements:

a) 

Investment and Cooperation Agreement

Pursuant  to  the  investment  and  cooperation  agreement  dated  29th  March  2019  (the  “Investment  and  Cooperation 
Agreement”) entered into by Gold Talent with COSCO SHIPPING Logistics Co., Ltd. (“COSCO SHIPPING Logistics”) 
and  Suqian  Jingdong  Xinsheng  Enterprise  Management  Co.,  Ltd.  (“JD  Logistics”),  the  parties  have  established  a  joint 
venture  named  as  Zhongjing  Supply  Chain  Technology  Co.,  Ltd.  (the  “Joint  Venture”)  in  Shanghai  with  the  initial 
registered  capital  of  RMB76,500,000.  As  at  31st  December  2019,  Gold  Talent  invested  RMB19,813,500  representing 
25.9% of the total equity interest of the Joint Venture.

b)  Share Transfer Agreements

(i)  Pursuant to the share transfer agreement (the “Share Transfer Agreement I”) dated 29th March 2019 entered into 
between  Gold  Talent  and  China  Shipping  Group  Co.,  Ltd.  (“China  Shipping  Group”),  China  Shipping  Group 
agreed to sell and Gold Talent agreed to purchase 17.35% of the total equity interest (“Acquisition I”) of Eshipping 
Global  Supply  Chain  Management  (Shenzhen)  Co.,  Ltd.  (“Eshipping”)  subject  to  the  terms  and  conditions  as  set 
out in the Share Transfer Agreement I. Acquisition I was completed on 2nd January 2020 at the consideration of 
approximately RMB9,184,639.

(ii)  Pursuant  to  the  share  transfer  agreement  (the  “Share  Transfer  Agreement  II”)  dated  29th  March  2019  entered 
into  between  Gold  Talent  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  Technology  Co.,  Ltd.  (“COSCO  SHIPPING  Technology”), 
COSCO SHIPPING Technology agreed to sell and Gold Talent agreed to purchase 25% of the total equity interest 
of Eshipping (“Acquisition II”) subject to the terms and conditions as set out in the Share Transfer Agreement II. 
Acquisition II was completed on 2nd January 2020 at the consideration of RMB13,234,350.

COSCO  SHIPPING  Logistics,  China  Shipping  Group,  COSCO  SHIPPING  Technology  and  Eshipping  are  subsidiaries  of 
COSCO  SHIPPING,  which  indirectly  controls  more  than  50%  of  the  issued  share  capital  of  the  Company.  Accordingly, 
COSCO SHIPPING Logistics, China Shipping Group, COSCO SHIPPING Technology and Eshipping are connected persons 
of the Company.

Details of the Investment and Cooperation Agreement, the Share Transfer Agreement I and the Share Transfer Agreement II 
are set out in the announcement dated 3rd April 2019.

98

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Report of the Directors

During  the  year,  the  Group  conducted  certain  related  party  transactions,  as  disclosed  in  note  49  to  the  consolidated  financial 
statements  on  pages  185  to  187  of  this  annual  report.  Some  of  these  transactions  also  constituted  connected  transactions  of  the 
Group (exempted or non-exempted) and in respect of which the Company has complied with the relevant applicable requirements 
under Chapter 14A of the Listing Rules.

PERMITTED INDEMNITY
Pursuant  to  the  Bye-laws  of  the  Company  and  subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  statutes,  every  Director  of  the  Company  shall  be 
indemnified and secured harmless out of the assets and profits of the Company from and against all actions, costs, charges, losses, 
damages and expenses which he/she may incur or sustain in or about the execution of his/her duty; provided that the indemnity 
shall not extend to any matter in respect of any wilful negligence, wilful default, fraud or dishonesty which may attach to any of the 
Directors of the Company.

Since 1992, the Company has arranged insurance cover for directors’ and officers’ liabilities including cover for Directors of the 
Company, officers and senior management of the Group arising out of the corporate activities of the Group.

PURCHASE, SALE OR REDEMPTION OF SHARES
During the year ended 31st December 2019, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries had purchased, sold or redeemed any 
of the Company’s Shares.

PRE-EMPTIVE RIGHTS
No pre-emptive rights exist under Bermudan law in relation to the issue of new shares by the Company.

SHARE CAPITAL
Details of the shares of the Company issued during the year are set out in note 37 to the consolidated financial statements on page 
175 of this annual report.

RESERVES
Movements during the year in the reserves of the Group and the Company are set out in note 38 and note 50 to the consolidated 
financial statements on pages 176 and 188 to 189 of this annual report.

EQUITY-LINKED AGREEMENTS
For the year ended 31st December 2019, the Company had not entered into any equity-linked agreement.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The  Board  and  management  of  the  Company  are  committed  to  maintaining  high  standards  of  corporate  governance  and  the 
Company  considers  that  effective  corporate  governance  makes  an  important  contribution  to  corporate  success  and  to  the 
enhancement of shareholder value.

The Company has adopted its own corporate governance code (the “CG Code”), which in addition to applying the principles as 
set out in the Corporate Governance Code (the “SEHK Code”) contained in Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules, also incorporates 
and conforms to local and international best practices. The CG Code sets out the corporate governance principles applied by the 
Group and is constantly reviewed to ensure transparency, accountability and independence. Further information on the CG Code 
is set out in the corporate governance report (the “Corporate Governance Report”) on pages 63 to 88 of this annual report.

Throughout the year of 2019, the Company complied with the SEHK Code, except as set out in the Corporate Governance Report.

PUBLIC FLOAT
Based on the information that is publicly available to the Company and within the knowledge of the Directors of the Company, 
as at the date of this report, there was sufficient public float of at least 25% of the Company’s issued Shares as required under the 
Listing Rules.

9999

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Report of the Directors

DONATIONS
Donations made by the Group during the year amount to US$216,000.

ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 15th May 2020.

A  circular  containing,  inter  alia,  (i)  a  notice  convening  the  Annual  General  Meeting;  (ii)  details  of  the  retiring  Directors  to  be 
re-elected  at  the  Annual  General  Meeting;  (iii)  the  general  mandate  to  authorise  the  allotment  of  and  otherwise  dealing  with 
shares  of  all  classes  in  the  capital  of  the  Company  and  securities  convertible  into  shares  and  options,  warrants  or  similar  rights 
to  subscribe  for  shares  or  such  convertible  securities;  (iv)  the  general  mandate  to  authorise  the  repurchase  of  the  Company’s 
securities; and (v) details of the major and connected transaction regarding the construction of five vessels, together with a proxy 
form will be despatched to the shareholders of the Company on or around 9th April 2020.

COMPANY SECRETARY
The Company Secretary of the Company is Ms. Lammy Lee, Barrister.

AUDITOR
The  Group’s  consolidated  financial  statements  have  been  audited  by  PricewaterhouseCoopers  who  will  retire  at  the  Annual 
General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.

On behalf of the Board
Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Xu Lirong
Chairman

Hong Kong, China, 20th March 2020

100

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019Index – Financial Information

Index – Financial Information

Summary of significant accounting policies
Financial risk management

Content
Independent Auditor’s Report
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1.  General information
2. 
3. 
4.  Critical accounting estimates and judgements
5.  Revenue and segment information
6.  Operating costs
7.  Other operating income
8.  Other gains, net
9.  Employee benefit expenses
10.  Directors’ and management’s emoluments
11.  Operating profit
12.  Finance costs
13.  Taxation
14.  Earnings per ordinary share
15.  Dividends
16.  Discontinued operation
17.  Property, plant and equipment
18.  Right-of-use assets
19.  Investment property
20.  Prepayments of lease premiums
21.  Investments in joint ventures
22.  Investments in associated companies
23.  Intangible assets
24.  Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities)
25.  Pension and retirement benefits
26.  Restricted bank balances
27.  Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income
28.  Investments at amortised cost
29.  Other non-current assets
30.  Inventories
31.  Debtors and prepayments
32.  Amounts due from joint ventures
33.  Amounts due from fellow subsidiaries
34.  Amounts due from related companies
35.  Portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss
36.  Cash and bank balances
37.  Share capital
38.  Reserves
39.  Share-based payments
40.  Borrowings
41.  Lease liabilities
42.  Creditors and accruals
43.  Amounts due to joint ventures
44.  Amounts due to fellow subsidiaries
45.  Amounts due to related companies
46.  Derivative financial instruments
47.  Commitments
48.  Notes to consolidated cash flow statement
49.  Significant related party transactions
50.  Company balance sheet
51.  Events subsequent to year end
52.  Approval of consolidated financial statements
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures

Page no.
102
108
109
110
112
113

114
114
136
141
143
148
148
149
149
150
153
153
154
155
155
156
158
160
161
162
162
163
163
164
166
169
169
170
171
171
172
174
174
174
174
175
175
176
176
177
179
179
180
180
180
180
180
183
185
188
189
189
190

101
101

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019　
　
Independent Auditor’s Report

Independent Auditor’s Report

To the Shareholders of Orient Overseas (International) Limited
(incorporated in Bermuda with members’ limited liability)

OPINION

What we have audited

The  consolidated  financial  statements  of  Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (the  “Company”)  and  its  subsidiaries  (the 
“Group”) set out on pages 108 to 199, which comprise:

(cid:127) 
(cid:127) 
(cid:127) 
(cid:127) 
(cid:127) 
(cid:127) 

the consolidated balance sheet as at 31st December 2019;
the consolidated profit and loss account for the year then ended;
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended;
the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended; and
the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies.

Our opinion

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group 
as at 31st December 2019, and of its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended 
in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants  (“HKICPA”)  and  have  been  properly  prepared  in  compliance  with  the  disclosure  requirements  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Companies Ordinance.

BASIS FOR OPINION
We  conducted  our  audit  in  accordance  with  Hong  Kong  Standards  on  Auditing  (“HKSAs”)  issued  by  the  HKICPA.  Our 
responsibilities  under  those  standards  are  further  described  in  the  Auditor’s  Responsibilities  for  the  Audit  of  the  Consolidated 
Financial Statements section of our report.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence

We are independent of the Group in accordance with the HKICPA’s Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (“the Code”), and 
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code.

KEY AUDIT MATTERS
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

Key audit matters identified in our audit are summarised as follows:

(cid:127) 
(cid:127) 
(cid:127) 

Disposal of LBCT LLC (“LBCT”)
Recognition of freight revenue on a percentage of completion basis
Provision for operating costs

102

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report

Key Audit Matter

How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter

Disposal of LBCT LLC (“LBCT”)

Our procedures in relation to the disposal of LBCT included:

Refer to notes 2.8, 4(d) and 16 to the consolidated 

(cid:127) 

Evaluated  the  consideration  of  the  disposal  after  post-

financial statements.

completion  adjustments  according  to  the  terms  of  the 

In April 2019, the Group entered into a Sale and Purchase 

Agreement  (“SPA”)  with  an  independent  third  party  to 

(cid:127)  Discussed with management and reviewed the key terms 

sell  its  entire  interests  in  LBCT  (the  “Disposal”),  which 

in  the  SPA  and  TSA  to  identify  whether  there  are  any 

operates the Long Beach Container Terminal in the United 

transactions other than the disposal of equity interests of 

SPA and TSA.

States  at  a  consideration  of  US$1,780  million,  subject  to 

LBCT.

certain  post-completion  adjustments.  Under  the  SPA,  the 

Group  was  committed  to  enter  into  a  20-year  terminal 

(cid:127) 

Evaluated  the  management’s  assumptions  and  estimates 

service agreement (“TSA”) with LBCT on the completion 

used  in  the  expected  number  of  vessel  lifts  for  the  20-

date.  The  Disposal  was  completed  and  the  TSA  was 

year  period  under  the  TSA  by  comparing  to  market 

entered into in October 2019.

reports and historical utilisation and trends of LBCT.

Based  on  the  key  terms  of  the  TSA  as  stated  in  the  SPA, 

(cid:127) 

Checked  whether  transaction  costs  were  directly 

the  Group  commits  to  place,  or  procure  the  placement  of 

attributable  to  the  Disposal,  on  a  sample  basis,  to 

an annual minimum number of vessel lifts for 20 years.

supporting documents.

The  Group  recognised  an  after-tax  net  gain  on  disposal 

(cid:127) 

Assessed  the  income  tax  associated  with  the  Disposal 

amounting  to  US$1,153.6  million  which  was  calculated 

according  to  the  relevant  tax  laws  and  regulations  with 

with reference to, among other things, the consideration of 

the involvement of our internal tax specialists.

the disposal after the post-completion adjustments, the net 

asset  value  of  LBCT,  the  estimated  transaction  costs  and 

(cid:127) 

Tested  the  mathematical  accuracy  of  the  calculation  of 

the provision of income tax associated with the Disposal.

the net gain on disposal.

We focused on this area because of the significance of the 

(cid:127) 

Assessed  the  appropriateness  of  the  relevant  disclosures 

gain  on  disposal.  In  addition,  significant  management’s 

made in the Group’s consolidated financial statements.

judgements  and  assumptions  are  involved  in  the 

determination  of  the  consideration  of  the  disposal, 

Based on the procedures performed, we found the judgements 

including  the  estimation  of  the  expected  volume  to  be 

and  assumptions  used  in  the  calculation  of  the  net  gain  on 

placed  in  LBCT,  and  the  income  tax  associated  with  the 

disposal were supportable based on available evidence.

Disposal.

103103

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report

Key Audit Matter

Recognition  of  freight  revenue  on  a  percentage  of 
completion basis

Refer to notes 2.22 and 5 to the consolidated financial 
statements.

For  the  year  ended  31st  December  2019,  the  majority 
of  the  Group’s  revenue  of  US$6,878.7  million  (2018: 
US$6,572.7 million) was derived from the freight revenue 
from container transport operation.

The  Group  recognises  freight  revenue  on  a  percentage  of 
completion  basis  which  is  determined  on  the  portion  of 
vessel  voyages  completed  at  year  end  with  reference  to 
their voyage details such as freight rates, departures dates 
and arrival dates.

The  transaction  volume  of  the  voyages  which  are  in 
progress  as  at  year  end  is  significant  and  complex 
calculations  are  involved  in  the  estimation  of  freight 
revenue on a percentage of completion basis.

How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Our procedures in relation to management’s quantification of 
freight revenue in relation to those vessel voyages which were 
in progress at year end included:

(cid:127)  Understood,  evaluated  and  tested  the  information 
technology general control environment of the operation 
system used to record the freight revenue transactions.

(cid:127)  Understood,  evaluated  and  tested  the  key  controls  over 
the  recognition  of  freight  revenue  and  receivable,  in 
particular  relating  to  estimation  of  freight  revenue  for 
vessel voyages in progress at the year end.

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

Agreed  the  departure  dates  and  arrival  dates  of  vessel 
voyages  in  progress  at  year  end  in  the  operation  system 
to the sailing schedules, on a sample basis.

Agreed the total freight revenue by vessel voyages in the 
operation system to the accounting records.

Recomputed  the  estimated  freight  revenue  of  vessel 
voyages  which  were  in  progress  as  at  year  end  with 
reference  to  the  departure  dates  and  arrival  dates  on  a 
sample basis.

We  found  that  management’s  estimation  of  freight  revenue 
for  vessel  voyages  in  progress  at  year  end  are  supportable  by 
available evidence.

104

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
Key Audit Matter

Provision for operating costs

Refer to notes 4(c) and 42 to the consolidated financial 
statements.

As  at  31st  December  2019,  included  in  the  accrued 
expenses  of  US$612.7  million  (2018:  US$443.2  million) 
was a provision for operating costs for container transport 
operation which mainly comprise cargo, vessel and voyage 
costs,  equipment  and  repositioning  costs  and  terminal 
operating costs.

As  it  takes  several  months  to  finalise  certain  costs  with 
suppliers  subsequent  to  the  receipt  of  such  services, 
management  makes  a  provision  for  such  operating  costs 
based  on  known  services  received,  pattern  of  historical 
cost and estimated vendor tariffs.

The  estimation  of  provision  for  operating  costs  involves 
significant  judgement  taking  into  account  a  number  of 
factors, such as pattern of historical cost and the estimated 
vendor  tariff.  Changes  in  estimation  could  result  in 
material changes to the provision for operating costs.

Independent Auditor’s Report

How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Our procedures in relation to management’s estimation of the 
provision for operating costs included:

(cid:127)  Understood,  evaluated  and  tested  the  information 
technology general control environment of the operation 
system  used  to  record  the  operating  costs  and  cost 
provisioning.

(cid:127)  Understood,  evaluated  and  tested  the  key  controls  over 
the  operating  costs,  cost  provisioning  and  accounts 
payable cycle, in particular relating to the accuracy of the 
vendor tariffs in the operation system.

(cid:127)  Understood  and  reperformed  the  computation  of  the 

provision for operating costs, on a sample basis.

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

Reviewed  and  discussed  monthly  trend  analysis  for 
provision for operating costs with management to assess 
the sufficiency of provisions made.

Checked  the  subsequent  utilisation  of  provision  for 
operating  costs  to  evaluate  the  sufficiency  of  provision 
made.

Reviewed  paid  and  unpaid  invoices  after  year  end  to 
ascertain  whether  liabilities  have  been  recorded  in  the 
proper period, on a sample basis.

We  found  that  the  judgement  involved  in  making  the 
provision for operating costs was supportable by the available 
evidence.

OTHER INFORMATION
The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises all of the information 
included in the annual report other than the consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.

Our  opinion  on  the  consolidated  financial  statements  does  not  cover  the  other  information  and  we  do  not  express  any  form  of 
assurance conclusion thereon.

In  connection  with  our  audit  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements,  our  responsibility  is  to  read  the  other  information  and, 
in  doing  so,  consider  whether  the  other  information  is  materially  inconsistent  with  the  consolidated  financial  statements  or  our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.

If,  based  on  the  work  we  have  performed,  we  conclude  that  there  is  a  material  misstatement  of  this  other  information,  we  are 
required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

105105

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report

RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND THE AUDIT COMMITTEE FOR THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The  directors  of  the  Company  are  responsible  for  the  preparation  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements  that  give  a  true  and 
fair  view  in  accordance  with  HKFRSs  issued  by  the  HKICPA  and  the  disclosure  requirements  of  the  Hong  Kong  Companies 
Ordinance, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial 
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.

AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
Our  objectives  are  to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether  the  consolidated  financial  statements  as  a  whole  are  free  from 
material  misstatement,  whether  due  to  fraud  or  error,  and  to  issue  an  auditor’s  report  that  includes  our  opinion.  We  report  our 
opinion solely to you, as a body, in accordance with Section 90 of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda and for no other purpose. 
We  do  not  assume  responsibility  towards  or  accept  liability  to  any  other  person  for  the  contents  of  this  report.  Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with HKSAs will always detect 
a  material  misstatement  when  it  exists.  Misstatements  can  arise  from  fraud  or  error  and  are  considered  material  if,  individually 
or  in  the  aggregate,  they  could  reasonably  be  expected  to  influence  the  economic  decisions  of  users  taken  on  the  basis  of  these 
consolidated financial statements.

As  part  of  an  audit  in  accordance  with  HKSAs,  we  exercise  professional  judgment  and  maintain  professional  scepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:

(cid:127) 

Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control.

(cid:127)  Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in 
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.

Evaluate  the  appropriateness  of  accounting  policies  used  and  the  reasonableness  of  accounting  estimates  and  related 
disclosures made by the directors.

Conclude  on  the  appropriateness  of  the  directors’  use  of  the  going  concern  basis  of  accounting  and,  based  on  the  audit 
evidence  obtained,  whether  a  material  uncertainty  exists  related  to  events  or  conditions  that  may  cast  significant  doubt  on 
the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

106

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Independent Auditor’s Report

(cid:127) 

Evaluate  the  overall  presentation,  structure  and  content  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements,  including  the  disclosures, 
and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves 
fair presentation.

(cid:127)  Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within 
the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision 
and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We  communicate  with  the  Audit  Committee  regarding,  among  other  matters,  the  planned  scope  and  timing  of  the  audit  and 
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We  also  provide  the  Audit  Committee  with  a  statement  that  we  have  complied  with  relevant  ethical  requirements  regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.

From  the  matters  communicated  with  the  Audit  Committee,  we  determine  those  matters  that  were  of  most  significance  in  the 
audit  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of  the  current  period  and  are  therefore  the  key  audit  matters.  We  describe  these 
matters  in  our  auditor’s  report  unless  law  or  regulation  precludes  public  disclosure  about  the  matter  or  when,  in  extremely  rare 
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is Liao Weining.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
Certified Public Accountants

Hong Kong, 20th March 2020

107107

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account

For the year ended 31st December 2019

Consolidated Profit and Loss Account

For the year ended 31st December 2019

US$’000

Revenue

Operating costs

Gross profit

Other operating income

Business and administrative expenses

Other gains, net

Operating profit

Finance costs

Share of profits of joint ventures

Share of profits of associated companies

Profit before taxation

Taxation

Profit for the year from continuing operations 

Discontinued operation:

Profit for the year from discontinued operation

Profit for the year

Profit attributable to:

Equity holders of the Company

Earnings per ordinary share (US cents)

– from continuing operations

– from discontinued operation

Basic and diluted

Note

2019

2018

5

6

7

8

11

12

21

22

13

16

14

6,878,740

(6,069,201)

6,572,655

(5,859,839)

809,539

83,679

(569,610)

37,673

361,281

(151,599)

4,116

10,028

223,826

(69,839)

153,987

1,194,806

1,348,793

712,816

82,521

(550,733)

18,331

262,935

(143,191)

2,953

11,371

134,068

(58,620)

75,448

32,718

108,166

1,348,793

108,166

24.6

190.9

215.5

12.1

5.2

17.3

108

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

For the year ended 31st December 2019

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

For the year ended 31st December 2019

US$’000

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive loss:

2019

1,348,793

2018

108,166

Items that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss:

Remeasurement losses on defined benefit schemes

(10,084)

(5,107)

Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income

– Change in fair value

Total items that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss

Items that have been reclassified or may be reclassified subsequently  

to profit or loss:

Currency translation adjustments

– Foreign subsidiaries

– Associated companies

– Joint ventures

– Release of reserve upon disposal of subsidiaries

– Release of reserve upon partial disposal of a joint venture

Total items that have been reclassified or may be reclassified subsequently  

to profit or loss

Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax

Total comprehensive income for the year

Total comprehensive income for the year attributable  

to equity holders of the Company arising from:

Continuing operations

Discontinued operation

(7,925)

(18,009)

(20,931)

(26,038)

(1,643)

(2,066)

(15)

–

–

(3,724)

(21,733)

1,327,060

132,254

1,194,806

1,327,060

(9,354)

(6,371)

(378)

(116)

(120)

(16,339)

(42,377)

65,789

33,071

32,718

65,789

109
109

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet

As at 31st December 2019

Consolidated Balance Sheet

As at 31st December 2019

US$’000

ASSETS

Non-current assets

Property, plant and equipment

Right-of-use assets

Investment property

Prepayments of lease premiums

Investments in joint ventures

Investments in associated companies

Intangible assets

Deferred taxation assets

Restricted bank balances

Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income

Investments at amortised cost

Other non-current assets

Current assets

Inventories

Debtors and prepayments

Amounts due from joint ventures

Amounts due from fellow subsidiaries

Amounts due from related companies

Investments at amortised cost

Portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss

Tax recoverable

Restricted bank balances

Cash and bank balances

Assets held for sale

Total assets

EQUITY

Equity holders

Share capital

Reserves

Total equity

110

Note

2019

2018

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

28

35

26

36

16

37

38

3,162,424

2,830,674

310,000

–

10,163

137,665

30,824

5,083

56,795

15,694

147,420

49,371

5,880,057

–

310,000

7,452

8,940

139,676

32,428

1,233

58,001

24,422

189,391

155,075

6,756,113

6,806,675

113,485

656,122

801

9,936

1,409

43,886

152,923

8,121

3,499

119,710

634,229

478

12,969

690

33,568

378,257

6,966

3,121

3,455,570

1,584,465

4,445,752

–

2,774,453

472,732

4,445,752

3,247,185

11,201,865

10,053,860

62,579

4,864,828

62,579

4,672,551

4,927,407

4,735,130

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31st December 2019

Note

2019

2018

40

41

24

25

42

43

44

45

40

41

46

15

16

1,033,141

2,309,083

150,479

11,494

3,695,834

–

106,827

3,200

3,504,197

3,805,861

1,034,577

4,826

19,223

13,979

394,996

253,869

–

47,522

1,001,269

2,770,261

–

838,185

2,441

5,843

10,371

501,922

–

5,565

7,494

–

1,371,821

141,048

2,770,261

1,512,869

6,274,458

5,318,730

11,201,865

10,053,860

US$’000

LIABILITIES

Non-current liabilities

Borrowings

Lease liabilities

Deferred taxation liabilities

Pension and retirement liabilities

Current liabilities

Creditors and accruals

Amounts due to joint ventures

Amounts due to fellow subsidiaries

Amounts due to related companies

Borrowings

Lease liabilities

Derivative financial instruments

Current taxation

Dividend payable

Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale

Total liabilities

Total equity and liabilities

Yang Zhijian
Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Directors

111111

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement

For the year ended 31st December 2019

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement

For the year ended 31st December 2019

US$’000

Note

2019

2018

Cash flows from operating activities

Operating profit
Interest income
Dividend income and distribution
Depreciation and amortisation
Loss on disposal of intangible assets
Impairment on investments at amortised cost
Reversal of impairment on investments at amortised cost
Fair value gain from assets and liabilities
Gain on disposal of subsidiaries
Gain on partial disposal of a joint venture
Net gain on disposal of non-current assets
Employee share-based compensation

Operating profit before working capital changes
Decrease/(increase) in inventories
Increase in debtors and prepayments
Decrease/(increase) in amounts due from fellow subsidiaries
Increase in amounts due from related companies
Increase in creditors and accruals
Increase in amounts due to fellow subsidiaries
Increase in amounts due to related companies
Decrease in other non-current liabilities
Change in net pension assets/liabilities
Settlement of derivative financial instruments

Cash generated from operations
Interest and financing charges paid
Hong Kong profits tax paid
Overseas taxes paid

Net cash from operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities

Sale and redemption on maturity of non-current assets
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of other non-current assets
Decrease/(increase) in portfolio investments at  

fair value through profit or loss

Disposal of subsidiaries
Proceeds on partial disposal of a joint venture
Deposits paid for investment in an entity
Investment in a joint venture
Investment in an associated company
Net change in amounts due from joint ventures
(Increase)/decrease in restricted bank balances and  
bank deposits maturing more than three months

Interest received
Dividends and distribution received from investments
Dividends received from joint ventures and associated companies

Net cash from/(used in) investing activities

Cash flows from financing activities

Drawdown of loans
Repayment of loans
Drawdown of finance lease obligations
Capital element of finance lease rental payments
Drawdown of lease liabilities
Repayment of lease liabilities
Dividend paid to equity holders of the Company

Net cash used in financing activities

Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
Net change in cash and cash equivalents of  
disposal group classified as held for sale

Currency translation adjustments

48(b)

48(a)
48(a)
48(a)
48(a)
48(a)
48(a)

438,109
(73,432)
(9,648)
429,336
3,356
–
(2,260)
(23,647)
–
–
(11,029)
2,651

753,436
5,535
(5,403)
3,599
(719)
180,039
13,228
3,608
(5,005)
(1,945)
1,758

948,131
(170,123)
(136)
(118,268)

659,604

60,153
(181,795)
(29,352)

241,609
1,709,248
–
(1,678)
(146)
(2,840)
2,183

(1,182,172)
61,777
9,648
15,716

702,351

301,310
(684,659)
–
–
99,145
(352,109)
(89,859)

(726,172)

635,783
1,584,465

53,733
(1,411)

299,386
(56,452)
(24,805)
403,701
657
1,985
–
(16,004)
(3,663)
(896)
(14,171)
–

589,738
(22,913)
(86,094)
(20,350)
(690)
121,038
6,048
10,371
(1,115)
(1,667)
3,394

597,760
(129,261)
(702)
(15,135)

452,662

89,182
(490,041)
(47,975)

(88,350)
(1,854)
1,230
–
(34)
–
444

1,655
56,240
10,133
18,212

(451,158)

213,692
(506,679)
262,228
(267,148)
–
–
–

(297,907)

(296,403)
1,940,975

(53,733)
(6,374)

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

48(d)

2,272,570

1,584,465

112

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

For the year ended 31st December 2019

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

For the year ended 31st December 2019

US$’000

At 1st January 2018

Total comprehensive income for the year

At 31st December 2018

At 1st January 2019

Adjustment on adoption of HKFRS 16 (note 2.1(b))

Restated balance at 1st January 2019

Total comprehensive income for the year

Transactions with owners

Employee share-based compensation

2018 final dividend

2019 interim dividend

2019 special dividend

At 31st December 2019

Share capital

62,579

–

62,579

62,579

–

62,579

–

–

–

–

–

Equity holders

Reserves

4,606,762

65,789

Total

4,669,341

65,789

4,672,551

4,735,130

4,672,551

(46,306)

4,626,245

1,327,060

2,651

(48,181)

(41,678)

4,735,130

(46,306)

4,688,824

1,327,060

2,651

(48,181)

(41,678)

(1,001,269)

(1,001,269)

62,579

4,864,828

4,927,407

113
113

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

1.  GENERAL INFORMATION

Orient Overseas (International) Limited (the “Company”) is a members’ limited liability company incorporated in Bermuda. 
The address of its registered office is Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda and the principal office 
is 31st Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong.

The  principal  activity  of  the  Company  is  investment  holding  and  the  activities  of  its  principal  subsidiaries,  associated 
companies and joint ventures are set out on pages 190 to 199 of the consolidated financial statements.

The Company has its shares listed on the Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.

The  ultimate  parent  company  of  the  Group  is  China  COSCO  SHIPPING  Corporation  Limited  (“COSCO  SHIPPING”),  a 
state-owned enterprise established in the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC”).

On  6th  July  2018,  the  Group  entered  into  the  National  Security  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Group  and  COSCO 
SHIPPING  Holdings  Co.,  Ltd.  (“COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings”)  committed  to  divest  the  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal 
(“U.S.  Terminal  Business”).  A  Sale  and  Purchase  Agreement  (“SPA”)  was  entered  on  29th  April  2019  and  the  sale  was 
completed on 24th October 2019.

The  U.S.  Terminal  Business  is  accounted  for  as  discontinued  operation  under  HKFRS  5 “Non-current  Assets  Held  for  Sale 
and Discontinued Operations”. Details of the transaction and analysis of the results, cash flows, assets and liabilities of the 
U.S. Terminal Business are presented in note 16.

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The  significant  accounting  policies  applied  in  the  preparation  of  these  consolidated  financial  statements  are  set  out  below. 
These policies have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless otherwise stated.

2.1  Basis of preparation

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards 
(“HKFRS”). They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investment 
property,  investments  at  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income,  portfolio  investments  at  fair  value  through 
profit or loss and derivative financial instruments which are carried at fair value.

The  preparation  of  consolidated  financial  statements  in  conformity  with  HKFRS  requires  the  use  of  certain  critical 
accounting  estimates.  It  also  requires  management  to  exercise  its  judgement  in  the  process  of  applying  the  Group’s 
accounting  policies.  The  areas  involving  a  higher  degree  of  judgement  or  complexity,  or  areas  where  assumptions  and 
estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 4.

The adoption of new or revised standards

In  2019,  the  Group  adopted  the  following  new  standard,  amendments,  improvement  and  interpretation  to  existing 
standards below, which are relevant to its operations.

114

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

The adoption of new or revised standards (Continued)

(a)  Impact on the financial statements

New standard, amendments, improvement and interpretation

HKAS 19 (Amendment)
HKAS 28 (Amendment)
HKFRSs
HKFRS 9 (Amendment)

HKFRS 16
HK(IFRIC) – Int 23

Employee Benefits
Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
Annual Improvements 2015 – 2017 Reporting Cycle
Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation and  

Modification of Financial Liabilities

Leases
Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments

The  adoption  of  the  above  new  standard,  amendments,  improvement  and  interpretation  to  existing  standards  do 
not have a material impact on the Group, except for HKFRS 16 “Leases” as set out below.

(b)  HKFRS 16 “Leases” – Impact of adoption

The  adoption  of  HKFRS  16  from  1st  January  2019  resulted  in  changes  in  accounting  policies  and  adjustments  to 
the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements. In accordance with the transitional provision in 
HKFRS 16, comparative figures have not been restated. The reclassification and adjustments arising from the new 
standard  are  therefore  not  reflected  in  the  restated  consolidated  balance  sheet  as  at  31st  December  2018,  but  are 
recognised in the opening consolidated balance sheet on 1st January 2019.

On  adoption  of  HKFRS  16,  the  Group  recognised  lease  liabilities  in  relation  to  leases  which  had  previously  been 
classified  as  ‘operating  leases’  under  the  principles  of  HKAS  17  “Leases”.  These  liabilities  were  measured  at  the 
present  value  of  the  remaining  lease  payments,  discounted  using  the  lessee’s  incremental  borrowing  rate  as  of 
1st  January  2019.  The  weighted  average  lessee’s  incremental  borrowing  rate  applied  to  the  lease  liabilities  on  1st 
January 2019 was 3.7%.

For leases previously classified as finance leases, the Group recognised the carrying amount of the lease asset and 
lease liability immediately before transition as the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset and the lease liability at 
the date of initial application. The measurement principles of HKFRS 16 are only applied after that date.

For  leases  previously  classified  as  operating  leases,  the  associated  right-of-use  assets  were  measured  on  a 
retrospective basis as if the new rules had always been applied. There were no onerous lease contracts that would 
have required an adjustment to the right-of-use assets at the date of initial application.

115115

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

The adoption of new or revised standards (Continued)

(b)  HKFRS 16 “Leases” – Impact of adoption (Continued)

The recognised right-of-use assets related to the following types of assets:

US$’000

Continuing operations

Container vessels

Terminal leases

Land and buildings

Others

Assets held for sale

Terminal leases (note 16(d))

31st December

1st January

2019

2019

2,490,024

2,692,013

18,708

132,710

189,232

22,064

109,067

101,350

2,830,674

2,924,494

–

819,133

2,830,674

3,743,627

116

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

The adoption of new or revised standards (Continued)

(b)  HKFRS 16 “Leases” – Impact of adoption (Continued)

(i)  Consolidated balance sheet as at 1st January 2019

The adjustments on the consolidated balance sheet as at 1st January 2019 are summarised below:

US$’000
Consolidated balance sheet (extract)

Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
Right-of-use assets
Prepayments of lease premiums

Current assets
Debtors and prepayments

Assets held for sale

Total assets

Non-current liabilities
Borrowings
Lease liabilities

Current liabilities
Creditors and accruals
Borrowings
Lease liabilities

Liabilities directly associated with  
assets classified as held for sale

Total liabilities

Retained profit

Total equity

31st December
2018
as originally 
presented

5,880,057
–
7,452

634,229

472,732

Effect of
adoption of 
HKFRS 16

(2,706,146)
2,924,494
(7,452)

1st January
2019
as restated

3,173,911
2,924,494
–

(191)

634,038

819,133

1,291,865

10,053,860

1,029,838

11,083,698

3,695,834
–

(2,227,981)
2,407,860

1,467,853
2,407,860

838,185
501,922
–

(3,048)
(210,798)
267,601

835,137
291,124
267,601

141,048

842,510

983,558

5,318,730

4,357,737

1,076,144

(46,306)

6,394,874

4,311,431

4,735,130

(46,306)

4,688,824

117117

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

The adoption of new or revised standards (Continued)

(b)  HKFRS 16 “Leases” – Impact of adoption (Continued)

(ii)  Consolidated profit and loss account for the year ended 31st December 2019

US$’000

Revenue
Operating costs

Gross profit
Other operating income
Business and administrative expenses
Other gains, net

Operating profit
Finance costs
Share of profits of joint ventures
Share of profits of associated companies

Profit before taxation
Taxation

Profit for the year from continuing 

operations

Discontinued operation:

Profit for the year from discontinued 

operation

Profit for the year

Profit attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company

Earnings per ordinary share (US cents)
– from continuing operations
– from discontinued operation

Basic and diluted

Before
adoption of
HKFRS 16

6,878,740
(6,076,047)

802,693
83,679
(571,407)
38,296

353,261
(143,079)
4,116
10,028

224,326
(69,839)

Effect of
adoption of
HKFRS 16

–
6,846

6,846
–
1,797
(623)

8,020
(8,520)
–
–

(500)
–

As reported

6,878,740
(6,069,201)

809,539
83,679
(569,610)
37,673

361,281
(151,599)
4,116
10,028

223,826
(69,839)

154,487

(500)

153,987

1,171,429

1,325,916

23,377

22,877

1,194,806

1,348,793

1,325,916

22,877

1,348,793

24.7
187.2

211.9

(0.1)
3.7

3.6

24.6
190.9

215.5

118

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

The adoption of new or revised standards (Continued)

(b)  HKFRS 16 “Leases” – Impact of adoption (Continued)

(iii) Consolidated balance sheet as at 31st December 2019

US$’000
Consolidated balance sheet (extract)

Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
Right-of-use assets
Prepayments of lease premiums

Total assets

Non-current liabilities
Borrowings
Lease liabilities

Current liabilities
Creditors and accruals
Borrowings
Lease liabilities

Total liabilities

Retained profit
Foreign exchange translation reserve

Before
adoption of
HKFRS 16

5,784,468
–
7,134

Effect of
adoption of
HKFRS 16

(2,622,044)
2,830,674
(7,134)

As reported

3,162,424
2,830,674
–

11,000,369

201,496

11,201,865

3,185,738
–

(2,152,597)
2,309,083

1,033,141
2,309,083

1,036,450
579,014
–

6,049,994

4,582,441
22,516

(1,873)
(184,018)
253,869

224,464

(23,429)
461

1,034,577
394,996
253,869

6,274,458

4,559,012
22,977

Total equity

4,950,375

(22,968)

4,927,407

In applying HKFRS 16 for the first time, the Group has used the following practical expedients permitted by the 
standard:

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

the use of a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics

reliance on previous assessments on whether leases are onerous

the accounting for operating leases with a remaining lease term of less than 12 months as at 1st January 2019 
as short-term leases

the  exclusion  of  initial  direct  costs  for  the  measurement  of  the  right-of-use  asset  at  the  date  of  initial 
application, and

the use of hindsight in determining the lease term where the contract contains options to extend or terminate 
the lease.

119119

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

The adoption of new or revised standards (Continued)

(b)  HKFRS 16 “Leases” – Impact of adoption (Continued)

The Group has also elected not to reassess whether a contract is, or contains a lease at the date of initial application. 
Instead,  for  contracts  entered  into  before  the  transition  date  the  Group  relied  on  its  assessment  made  applying 
HKAS 17 and HK(IFRIC) – Int 4 “Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease”.

The Group leases various vessels, offices, and terminals. Rental contracts are typically made for fixed periods of 2 
to 40 years but may have extension options. Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis and contain a wide 
range of different terms and conditions. The lease agreements do not impose any covenants, but leased assets may 
not be used as security for borrowing purposes.

Until the 2018 financial year, leases of property, plant and equipment were classified as either finance or operating 
leases.  Payments  made  under  operating  leases  (net  of  any  incentives  received  from  the  lessor)  were  charged  to 
profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.

From  1st  January  2019,  leases  are  recognised  as  a  right-of-use  asset  and  a  corresponding  liability  at  the  date  at 
which the leased asset is available for use by the Group. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and 
finance cost. The finance cost is charged to profit or loss over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic 
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. The right-of-use asset is depreciated over 
the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the lease term on a straight-line basis.

At  31st  December  2018,  the  Group  had  non-cancellable  operating  lease  commitments  for  continuing  operations 
of  US$419.6  million.  As  part  of  the  transition,  the  Group  assessed  and  applied  following  adjustments  before 
discounting lease payments at the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate:

– 

Service components included in vessels’ time charter rates are not included as part of the lease liability. These 
costs will be recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account as incurred.

– 

Low-value leases will continue to be recognised on straight-line basis as expenses.

The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be determined, 
the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate is used, being the rate that the lessee would have to pay to borrow the funds 
necessary to obtain an asset of similar value in a similar economic environment with similar terms and conditions.

Payments associated with short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognised on a straight-line basis as 
an expense in profit or loss. Short-term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or less. Low-value assets 
comprise containers and small items of office furniture.

120

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

The adoption of new or revised standards (Continued)

(b)  HKFRS 16 “Leases” – Impact of adoption (Continued)

Set out below is a reconciliation of the operating lease commitments disclosed at 31st December 2018 to the lease 
liabilities recognised on 1st January 2019:

Operating lease commitments disclosed as at 31st December 2018

Discounted using the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate at the date of  

initial application

Add: Finance lease liabilities recognised as at 31st December 2018
Less: Short-term leases not recognised as a liability
Less: Low-value leases not recognised as a liability
Less: Leases committed but not yet commenced
Less: Service components included in vessels’ time charter rates  

not recognised as a liability

Lease liabilities recognised as at 1st January 2019

Of which are:

Current lease liabilities
Non-current lease liabilities

US$’000 

419,614

392,753
2,438,779
(70,454)
(15,984)
(12,599)

(57,034)

2,675,461

267,601
2,407,860

2,675,461

New standard and amendments to existing standards that are relevant but not yet effective to the Group

New standard and amendments to existing standards

Definition of Material

HKAS 1 and HKAS 8 
(Amendments)

HKFRS 3 (Amendment)
HKFRS 17
HKFRS 10 and HKAS 28 

(Amendments)

Definition of a Business
Insurance Contracts
Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and  

1st January 2020
1st January 2021
To be announced

its Associate or Joint Venture

Effective for 
accounting periods 
beginning on or after

1st January 2020

The  adoption  of  HKAS  1  and  HKAS  8  (Amendments),  HKFRS  3  (Amendment),  HKFRS  10  and  HKAS  28 
(Amendments) and HKFRS 17 are not expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of 
the Group.

121121

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.2  Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 
31st December.

The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s attributable share of post-acquisition results and reserves 
of its joint ventures and associated companies.

(a)  Subsidiaries

A subsidiary is an entity (including a structured entity) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an 
entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has 
the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on 
which control is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.

The  Group  uses  the  acquisition  method  of  accounting  to  account  for  business  combinations.  The  consideration 
transferred  for  the  acquisition  of  a  subsidiary  is  the  fair  values  of  the  assets  transferred,  the  liabilities  incurred 
and  the  equity  interests  issued  by  the  Group.  The  consideration  transferred  includes  the  fair  value  of  any  asset 
or  liability  resulting  from  a  contingent  consideration  arrangement.  Acquisition-related  costs  are  expensed  as 
incurred.  Identifiable  assets  acquired  and  liabilities  and  contingent  liabilities  assumed  in  a  business  combination 
are  measured  initially  at  their  fair  values  at  the  acquisition  date.  The  Group  recognises  any  non-controlling 
interest  in  the  acquiree  on  an  acquisition-by-acquisition  basis.  Non-controlling  interests  in  the  acquiree  that  are 
present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets in the event 
of  liquidation  are  measured  at  either  fair  value  or  the  present  ownership  interests’  proportionate  share  in  the 
recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. All other components of non-controlling interests are 
measured at their acquisition-date fair value, unless another measurement basis is required by HKFRS.

The  excess  of  the  consideration  transferred,  the  amount  of  any  non-controlling  interest  in  the  acquiree  and  the 
acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net 
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised 
and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the 
case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Inter-company  transactions,  balances  and  unrealised  gains  on  transactions  between  group  companies  are 
eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the 
asset transferred.

(b)  Transactions with non-controlling interests

Transactions  with  non-controlling  interests  that  do  not  result  in  a  loss  of  control  are  accounted  for  as  equity 
transactions – that is, as transactions with the owners of the subsidiary in their capacity as owners. The difference 
between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary 
is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.

(c)  Disposal of subsidiaries

When  the  Group  ceases  to  have  control,  any  retained  interest  in  the  entity  is  remeasured  to  its  fair  value,  with 
the  change  in  carrying  amount  recognised  in  profit  or  loss.  The  fair  value  is  the  initial  carrying  amount  for  the 
purposes  of  subsequent  accounting  for  the  retained  interest  as  an  associated  company,  joint  venture  or  financial 
asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are 
accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts 
previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.

122

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.2  Consolidation (Continued)

(d)  Joint arrangements

Joint  arrangements  are  classified  as  either  joint  operations  or  joint  ventures  depending  on  the  contractual  rights 
and obligations of each investor. The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them 
to be joint ventures. Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.

Under  the  equity  method  of  accounting,  interests  in  joint  ventures  are  initially  recognised  at  cost  and  adjusted 
thereafter  to  recognise  the  Group’s  share  of  the  post-acquisition  profits  or  losses  and  movements  in  other 
comprehensive  income.  When  the  Group’s  share  of  losses  in  a  joint  venture  equals  or  exceeds  its  interests  in  the 
joint venture (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in 
the joint venture), the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments 
on behalf of the joint venture.

Unrealised  gains  on  transactions  between  the  Group  and  its  joint  ventures  are  eliminated  to  the  extent  of  the 
Group’s interest in the joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence 
of an impairment of the asset transferred.

(e)  Associated companies

Associated  companies  are  all  entities  over  which  the  Group  has  significant  influence  but  not  control,  generally 
accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associated companies 
are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investments 
in associated companies includes goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) identified on acquisition.

If  the  ownership  interest  in  an  associate  is  reduced  but  significant  influence  is  retained,  only  a  proportionate 
share of the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where 
appropriate.

The Group’s share of its associated companies’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the consolidated 
profit  and  loss  account,  and  its  share  of  post-acquisition  movements  in  reserves  is  recognised  in  reserves.  The 
cumulative  post-acquisition  movements  are  adjusted  against  the  carrying  amount  of  the  investment.  When  the 
Group’s share of losses in an associated company equals or exceeds its interest in the associated company, including 
any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or 
made payments on behalf of the associated company.

Profits  and  losses  resulting  from  upstream  and  downstream  transactions  between  the  Group  and  its  associated 
companies  are  recognised  in  the  Group’s  financial  statements  only  to  the  extent  of  unrelated  investor’s  interests 
in  the  associated  companies.  Unrealised  losses  are  also  eliminated  unless  the  transaction  provides  evidence  of 
an  impairment  of  the  asset  transferred.  Accounting  policies  of  associated  companies  have  been  changed  where 
necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.

2.3  Property, plant and equipment

All property,  plant and  equipment are  stated  at  historical cost  less  depreciation and impairment losses. Historical cost 
includes  expenditure  that  is  directly  attributable  to  the  acquisition  of  the  items.  Subsequent  costs  are  included  in  the 
asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic 
benefits  associated  with  the  item  will  flow  to  the  Group  and  the  cost  of  the  item  can  be  measured  reliably.  All  other 
repairs  and  maintenance  are  charged  to  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  during  the  financial  period  in  which 
they are incurred.

No depreciation is provided for assets under construction and freehold land.

123123

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.3  Property, plant and equipment (Continued)

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their 
residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows:

Container vessels
Containers and chassis
Terminal equipment and improvement
Freehold buildings
Buildings outside Hong Kong
Leasehold improvement
Furniture, vehicles, computer and other equipment

25 years
10 to 15 years
3 to 15 years
Not exceeding 75 years
Over period of the lease
Over period of the lease or 5 years whichever is lower
3 to 10 years

The  residual  values  of  the  assets  and  their  useful  lives  are  reviewed  and  adjusted  if  appropriate,  at  each  balance  sheet 
date.

During  the  year,  management  has  reviewed  the  estimated  residual  values  for  the  Group’s  container  vessels  and 
containers  by  reference  to  all  relevant  factors  (including  the  current  scrap  value  of  steels  in  an  active  market).  The 
revision of the estimated scrap values of the container vessels and containers has been effective from 1st January 2019 
and has the effect of reducing the depreciation charge for the year ended 31st December 2019 by US$10.5 million.

The carrying amount of an asset is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount of the 
asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.

Gains  and  losses  on  disposals  are  determined  as  the  difference  between  the  net  disposal  proceeds  and  the  carrying 
amounts of the assets and are dealt with in the consolidated profit and loss account.

2.4  Investment property

Property  that  is  held  for  long-term  rental  yields  or  for  capital  appreciation  or  both,  and  that  is  not  occupied  by  the 
companies in the Group, is classified as investment property.

Investment  property  is  initially  measured  at  cost,  including  related  transaction  costs  and  where  applicable  borrowing 
costs. After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair value. Fair value is based on valuation carried out 
semi-annually by an independent external valuer. Changes in fair values are recognised in the consolidated profit and 
loss account.

2.5  Vessel repairs and surveys

Upon  acquisition  of  a  vessel,  the  components  of  the  vessel  which  are  required  to  be  replaced  at  the  next  dry-docking 
are identified and their costs are depreciated over five years to the next estimated dry-docking date. Costs incurred on 
subsequent  dry-docking  of  vessels  are  capitalised  and  depreciated  over  the  period  to  the  next  estimated  dry-docking 
date. When significant dry-docking costs incurred prior to the expiry of the depreciation period, the remaining costs of 
the previous dry-docking are written off immediately.

124

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.6  Intangible assets

(a)  Goodwill

Goodwill  represents  the  excess  of  the  cost  of  an  acquisition  over  the  fair  value  of  the  Group’s  share  of  the 
net  identifiable  assets  of  the  acquired  subsidiary,  associated  company  or  joint  venture  at  the  effective  date  of 
acquisition.

Goodwill on acquisition of a foreign operation is treated as an asset of the foreign operation.

Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiaries is retained at the carrying amount as an intangible asset. Goodwill 
arising  on  acquisition  of  associated  companies  and  joint  ventures  is  included  within  investments  in  associated 
companies  and  joint  ventures  respectively  and  is  tested  for  impairment  as  part  of  overall  balance.  Separately 
recognised  goodwill  is  subject  to  impairment  review  annually  and  when  there  are  indications  that  the  carrying 
value  may  not  be  recoverable.  If  the  cost  of  acquisition  is  less  than  the  fair  value  of  the  Group’s  share  of  the  net 
identifiable assets of the acquired company, the difference is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

(b)  Computer software

Costs  associated  with  maintaining  computer  software  programs  are  recognised  as  an  expense  as  incurred.  Costs 
that  are  directly  associated  with  the  production  of  identifiable  and  unique  software  products  controlled  by  the 
Group,  and  that  will  probably  generate  economic  benefits  exceeding  costs  beyond  one  year,  are  recognised  as 
intangible  assets.  Direct  costs  include  the  software  development  employee  costs  and  an  appropriate  portion  of 
relevant overheads.

Computer software costs mainly comprise internally generated capitalised software development costs.

Computer  software  costs  recognised  as  assets  are  stated  at  cost  less  accumulated  amortisation.  Amortisation  is 
calculated on the straight-line basis over their estimated useful life, with a maximum of five years.

2.7  Impairment of investments in subsidiaries and non-financial assets

Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation, and are at least tested annually for impairment. 
Assets  that  are  subject  to  amortisation  are  reviewed  for  impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which 
the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value 
of an asset less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest 
levels  for  which  there  are  separately  identifiable  cash  flows  (cash  generating  units).  Non-financial  assets  other  than 
goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.

Impairment  testing  of  the  investments  in  subsidiaries  is  required  upon  receiving  dividends  from  these  investments  if 
the dividend exceeds the total comprehensive income of the subsidiary in the period the dividend is declared or if the 
carrying  amount  of  the  investment  in  the  separate  account  exceeds  the  carrying  amount  in  the  consolidated  financial 
statements of the investee’s net assets including goodwill.

2.8  Non-current assets (or disposal groups) held for sale and discontinued operations

Non-current  assets  (or  disposal  groups)  are  classified  as  held  for  sale  if  their  carrying  amount  will  be  recovered 
principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use and a sale is considered highly probable. They 
are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, except for assets such as deferred tax 
assets, assets arising from employee benefits, financial assets and investment property that are carried at fair value and 
contractual rights under insurance contracts, which are specifically exempt from this requirement.

125125

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.8  Non-current assets (or disposal groups) held for sale and discontinued operations (Continued)

Non-current assets (including those that are part of a disposal group) are not depreciated or amortised while they are 
classified as held for sale. Interest and other expenses attributable to the liabilities of a disposal group classified as held 
for sale continue to be recognised.

Non-current assets classified as held for sale and the assets of a disposal group classified as held for sale are presented 
separately from the other assets in the consolidated balance sheet. The liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for 
sale are presented separately from other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.

A discontinued operation is a component of the entity that has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale and that 
represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, is part of a single co-ordinated plan to 
dispose of such a line of business or area of operations, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. The 
results of discontinued operations are presented separately in the consolidated profit and loss account.

2.9  Investments and other financial assets

(a)  Classification

The Group classifies its financial assets in the following measurement categories:

(cid:127) 

those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either through other comprehensive income or through profit 
or loss); and

(cid:127) 

those to be measured at amortised cost.

The  classification  depends  on  the  entity’s  business  model  for  managing  the  financial  assets  and  the  contractual 
terms of the cash flows.

For assets measured at fair value, gains and losses will either be recorded in profit or loss or other comprehensive 
income. For investments in equity instruments that are not held for trading, this will depend on whether the Group 
has made an irrevocable election at the time of initial recognition to account for the equity investment at fair value 
through other comprehensive income.

The Group reclassifies debt investments when and only when its business model for managing those assets changes.

(b)  Recognition and derecognition

Regular  way  purchases  and  sales  of  financial  assets  are  recognised  on  trade-date,  the  date  on  which  the  Group 
commits to purchase or sell the asset. Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from 
the financial assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks 
and rewards of ownership.

(c)  Measurement

At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not 
at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial 
asset. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are expensed in profit or loss.

Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining whether their cash 
flows are solely payment of principal and interest.

126

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.9  Investments and other financial assets (Continued)

(c)  Measurement (Continued)

Debt instruments

Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group’s business model for managing the asset and 
the cash flow characteristics of the asset. There are three measurement categories into which the Group classifies its 
debt instruments:

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent 
solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost. Interest income from these financial 
assets is included in “other operating income” using the effective interest rate method. Any gain or loss arising 
on derecognition is recognised directly in profit or loss and presented in “other gains/(losses)” together with 
foreign exchange gains and losses. Impairment losses are presented in “other gains/(losses)”.

Fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income:  Assets  that  are  held  for  collection  of  contractual  cash 
flows  and  for  selling  the  financial  assets,  where  the  assets’  cash  flows  represent  solely  payments  of  principal 
and  interest,  are  measured  at  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income.  Movements  in  the  carrying 
amount  are  taken  through  other  comprehensive  income,  except  for  the  recognition  of  impairment  gains  or 
losses,  interest  income  and  foreign  exchange  gains  and  losses  which  are  recognised  in  profit  or  loss.  When 
the financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive 
income  is  reclassified  from  equity  to  profit  or  loss  and  recognised  in “other  gains/(losses)”.  Interest  income 
from  these  financial  assets  is  included  in  “other  operating  income”  using  the  effective  interest  rate  method. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment expenses are presented in “other gains/(losses)”.

Fair value through profit or loss: Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or fair value through 
other  comprehensive  income  are  measured  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss.  A  gain  or  loss  on  a  debt 
investment that is subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss is recognised in profit or loss and 
presented net within “other gains/(losses)” in the period in which it arises.

Equity instruments

The Group subsequently measures all equity investments at fair value. Where the Group’s management has elected 
to present fair value gains and losses on equity investments in other comprehensive income, there is no subsequent 
reclassification  of  fair  value  gains  and  losses  to  profit  or  loss  following  the  derecognition  of  the  investment. 
Dividends from such investments continue to be recognised in profit or loss as “other operating income” when the 
Group’s right to receive payments is established.

Changes  in  the  fair  value  of  financial  assets  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss  are  recognised  in  “other  gains/
(losses)”  in  profit  or  loss  as  applicable.  Impairment  losses  (and  reversal  of  impairment  losses)  on  equity 
investments  measured  at  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income  are  not  reported  separately  from  other 
changes in fair value.

(d)  Impairment

The  Group  assesses  on  a  forward  looking  basis  the  expected  credit  losses  associated  with  its  debt  instruments 
carried  at  amortised  cost  and  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income.  The  impairment  methodology 
applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.

For trade receivables, the Group applies the simplified approach permitted by HKFRS 9, which requires expected 
lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.

127127

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.9  Investments and other financial assets (Continued)

(e)  Offsetting financial instruments

Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the consolidated balance sheet when there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or 
realise  the  asset  and  settle  the  liability  simultaneously.  The  legally  enforceable  right  must  not  be  contingent  on 
future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or 
bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty.

2.10 Inventories

Inventories mainly comprise bunkers and consumable stores. Cost is calculated on weighted average basis. Inventories 
are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses.

2.11 Debtors

Debtors  are  recognised  initially  at  fair  value  and  subsequently  measured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective  interest 
method,  less  provision  for  impairment.  A  provision  for  impairment  of  debtors  is  established  when  there  is  objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables and is 
also based on expected credit losses rather than only incurred credit losses. The amount of the provision is recognised in 
the consolidated profit and loss account. More information about the impairment policies of debtors is disclosed in note 
3.1(c).

If collection of debtors is expected in one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they 
are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets.

2.12 Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks with original maturities of three months 
or less.

2.13 Share capital

Ordinary shares are classified as equity.

Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the 
proceeds.

2.14  Creditors

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business 
from suppliers. Creditors are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal 
operating cycle of the business if longer. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.

Trade  creditors  are  recognised  initially  at  fair  value  and  subsequently  measured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective 
interest method.

128

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.15 Borrowings

Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at 
amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in 
the consolidated profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.

Borrowings  are  classified  as  current  liabilities  unless  the  Group  has  an  unconditional  right  to  defer  settlement  of  the 
liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.

Fees  paid  on  the  establishment  of  loan  facilities  are  recognised  as  transaction  costs  of  the  loan  to  the  extent  that  it 
is  probable  that  some  or  all  of  the  facility  will  be  drawn  down.  In  this  case,  the  fee  is  deferred  until  the  draw-down 
occurs. To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is 
capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.

2.16  Current and deferred taxation

The tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss 
account, except to the extent that it relates to item recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In 
this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.

The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet  date  in  the  countries  where  the  Company’s  subsidiaries,  joint  ventures  and  associated  companies  operate  and 
generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in 
which  applicable  tax  regulation  is  subject  to  interpretation.  It  establishes  provisions  where  appropriate  on  the  basis  of 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.

Deferred taxation is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases 
of  assets  and  liabilities  and  their  carrying  amounts  in  the  consolidated  financial  statements.  However,  if  the  deferred 
taxation arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at 
the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred taxation 
is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected 
to apply when the related deferred taxation asset is realised or the deferred taxation liability is settled.

Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be utilised.

Deferred taxation is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associated companies and 
joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is 
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities related to income taxes levied by the 
same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the 
balances on a net basis.

129129

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.17 Employee benefits

(a)  Pension obligations

The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension and retirement benefit schemes 
in  the  main  countries  in  which  the  Group  operates.  These  schemes  are  generally  funded  by  payments  from 
employees and by relevant group companies, taking into account of the recommendations of independent qualified 
actuaries where required.

A  defined  benefit  plan  is  a  pension  plan  that  is  not  a  defined  contribution  plan.  Typically  defined  benefit  plans 
define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more 
factors such as age, years of service and compensation.

The liability recognised in the consolidated balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present 
value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit 
obligation  is  calculated  annually  by  independent  actuaries  using  the  projected  expected  benefit  payments.  The 
present  value  of  the  defined  benefit  obligation  is  determined  by  discounting  the  estimated  future  cash  outflows 
using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will 
be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. In countries 
where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.

The  current  service  cost  of  the  defined  benefit  plan,  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  in 
employee benefit expense, except where included in the cost of an asset, reflects the increase in the defined benefit 
obligation results from employee service in the current year, benefit changes, curtailments and settlements.

Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the consolidated profit and loss account.

The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation 
and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in the consolidated profit and 
loss account.

Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or 
credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.

Contributions under the defined contribution schemes are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are 
due and are reduced by contributions forfeited by those employees who leave the scheme prior to vesting fully in 
the contributions. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in 
the future payments is available.

(b)  Bonus plans

The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses, based on a formula that takes into consideration the 
profit  attributable  to  the  Company’s  shareholders  after  certain  adjustments.  The  Group  recognises  a  provision 
where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.

(c)  Employee leave entitlements

Employee  entitlements  to  annual  leave  are  recognised  when  they  accrue  to  employees.  A  provision  is  made  for 
the estimated liability for annual leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the balance sheet date. 
Employee entitlements to sick leave and maternity leave are not recognised until the time of leave.

130

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.17 Employee benefits (Continued)

(d)  Share-based payments

Employee services settled in equity instruments

An  intermediate  holding  company  of  the  Group  operates  an  equity-settled,  share-based  compensation  plan.  The 
fair  value  of  the  employee  services  received  in  exchange  for  the  grant  of  the  share  options  of  the  intermediate 
holding  company  is  recognised  as  an  expense.  The  total  amount  to  be  expensed  over  the  vesting  period  is 
determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting 
conditions.  Non-market  vesting  conditions  are  included  in  assumptions  about  the  number  of  options  that  are 
expected  to  become  exercisable.  At  each  balance  sheet  date,  the  Group  revises  its  estimates  of  the  number  of 
options that are expected to become exercisable. It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, 
in the consolidated profit and loss account, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting 
period.

2.18 Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated.

Where  there  are  a  number  of  similar  obligations,  the  likelihood  that  an  outflow  will  be  required  in  settlement  is 
determined  by  considering  the  class  of  obligations  as  a  whole.  A  provision  is  recognised  even  if  the  likelihood  of  an 
outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.

2.19 Financial guarantee contracts

Financial  guarantee  contracts  are  recognised  as  a  financial  liability  at  the  time  the  guarantee  is  issued.  The  liability  is 
initially measured at fair value and subsequently at the higher of:

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

the amount determined in accordance with the expected credit loss model under HKFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” 
and

the  amount  initially  recognised  less,  where  appropriate,  the  cumulative  amount  of  income  recognised  in 
accordance with the principles of HKFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”.

The fair value of financial guarantees is determined based on the present value of the difference in cash flows between 
the  contractual  payments  required  under  the  debt  instrument  and  the  payments  that  would  be  required  without  the 
guarantee, or the estimated amount that would be payable to a third party for assuming the obligations.

Where guarantees in relation to loans or other payables of associated companies and joint ventures are provided for no 
compensation, the fair values are accounted for as contributions and recognised as part of the cost of the investment.

2.20 Segment information

Operating  segments  are  reported  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the  internal  reporting  provided  to  the  chief  operating 
decision-makers.  The  chief  operating  decision-makers,  who  are  responsible  for  allocating  resources  and  assessing 
performance of the operating segments and making strategic decisions, have been identified as the Executive Directors.

131131

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.21 Foreign currency translation

(a)  Functional and presentation currency

Items  included  in  the  financial  statements  of  each  of  the  Group’s  entities  are  measured  using  the  currency  of 
the  primary  economic  environment  in  which  the  entity  operates  (the  “functional  currency”).  The  consolidated 
financial  statements  are  presented  in  US  dollar,  which  is  the  Company’s  functional  currency  and  the  Group’s 
presentation currency.

(b)  Transactions and balances

Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and 
from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Changes in the fair value of debt securities denominated in foreign currency classified as investments at fair value 
through  other  comprehensive  income  are  analysed  between  translation  differences  resulting  from  changes  in  the 
amortised  cost  of  the  security  and  other  changes  in  the  carrying  amount  of  the  security.  Translation  differences 
related  to  changes  in  amortised  cost  are  recognised  in  profit  or  loss,  and  other  changes  in  carrying  amount  are 
recognised in other comprehensive income.

Translation  differences  on  non-monetary  items,  such  as  equities  held  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss,  are 
reported  as  part  of  the  fair  value  gain  or  loss.  Translation  differences  on  non-monetary  items,  such  as  equities 
classified  as  investments  at  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income,  are  included  in  the  investments 
revaluation reserve in other comprehensive income.

(c)  Group companies

The results and financial position of all the group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary 
economy)  that  have  a  functional  currency  different  from  the  presentation  currency  are  translated  into  the 
presentation currency as follows:

(i)  assets  and  liabilities  for  each  balance  sheet  presented  are  translated  at  the  closing  rate  at  the  date  of  that 

balance sheet;

(ii) 

income  and  expenses  for  each  profit  and  loss  account  are  translated  at  average  exchange  rates  (unless 
this  average  is  not  a  reasonable  approximation  of  the  cumulative  effect  of  the  rates  prevailing  on  the 
transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rates prevailing on the dates of the 
transactions); and

(iii)  all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.

On  consolidation,  exchange  differences  arising  from  the  translation  of  the  net  investment  in  foreign  entities, 
and  of  borrowings  and  other  currency  instruments  designated  as  hedges  of  such  investments,  are  taken  to  other 
comprehensive  income.  When  a  foreign  operation  is  sold,  such  exchange  differences  are  recognised  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account as part of the gain or loss on sale.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities 
of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.

132

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.22 Revenue recognition

Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of services, net of value-added 
tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. Revenue is recognised as follows:

(a)  Freight  revenues  from  the  operation  of  the  container  transport  are  recognised  over  time  which  is  determined  on 

the percentage of completion basis of each individual vessel voyage.

(b)  Revenues from logistics business are recognised when services are rendered or over time which is determined on 

the percentage of completion basis of the progress of the transportation.

(c)  Revenues from the operation of container terminals and provision of other services are recognised when services 

are rendered.

(d)  Rental income under operating leases is recognised over the periods of the respective leases on a straight-line basis.

2.23 Interest income

Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.

2.24  Dividend income

Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.

2.25 Contract assets and contract liabilities

Upon  entering  into  a  contract  with  a  customer,  the  Group  obtains  rights  to  receive  consideration  from  the  customer 
and assumes performance obligations to transfer goods or provide services to the customer. The combination of those 
rights  and  performance  obligations  gives  rise  to  a  net  asset  or  a  net  liability  depending  on  the  relationship  between 
the remaining rights and the performance obligations. The contract is an asset and recognised as contract assets if the 
measure of the remaining rights exceeds the measure of the remaining performance obligations. Conversely, the contract 
is a liability and recognised as contract liabilities if the measure of the remaining performance obligations exceeds the 
measure of the remaining rights.

2.26 Leases

As explained in note 2.1(b) above, the Group has changed its accounting policy for leases where the Group is the lessee. 
The new policy is described below and the impact of the change in note 2.1(b).

Until  31st  December  2018,  leases  of  property,  plant  and  equipment  where  the  Group,  as  lessee,  had  substantially  all 
the  risks  and  rewards  of  ownership  were  classified  as  finance  leases  (note  17).  Finance  leases  were  capitalised  at  the 
lease’s inception at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments. The 
corresponding  rental  obligations,  net  of  finance  charges,  were  included  in  current  and  non-current  borrowings.  Each 
lease payment was allocated between the liability and finance cost. The finance cost was charged to profit or loss over 
the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each 
period. The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases was depreciated over the asset’s useful life or 
over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the lease term if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain 
ownership at the end of the lease term.

133133

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.26 Leases (Continued)

Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership were not transferred to the Group as lessee 
were  classified  as  operating  leases  (note  47(c)).  Payments  made  under  operating  leases  (net  of  any  incentives  received 
from the lessor) were charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.

From 1st January 2019, leases are recognised as a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability at the date at which the 
leased asset is available for use by the Group.

Contracts  may  contain  both  lease  and  non-lease  components.  The  Group  allocates  the  consideration  in  the  contract 
to the lease and non-lease components based on their relative stand-alone prices. However, for leases of real estate for 
which the Group is a lessee, it has elected not to separate lease and non-lease components and instead accounts for these 
as a single lease component.

Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially measured on a present value basis. Lease liabilities include the net 
present value of the following lease payments:

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives receivable

variable  lease  payment  that  are  based  on  an  index  or  a  rate,  initially  measured  using  the  index  or  rate  as  at  the 
commencement date

amounts expected to be payable by the Group under residual value guarantees

the exercise price of a purchase option if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that option, and

payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the Group exercising that option.

Lease  payments  to  be  made  under  reasonably  certain  extension  options  are  also  included  in  the  measurement  of  the 
liability.

The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be readily determined, 
which is generally the case for leases in the Group, the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate is used, being the rate that the 
individual lessee would have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset of similar value to the right-of-use 
asset in a similar economic environment with similar terms, security and conditions.

The Group is exposed to potential future increases in variable lease payments based on an index or rate, which are not 
included in the lease liability until they take effect. When adjustments to lease payments based on an index or rate take 
effect, the lease liability is reassessed and adjusted against the right-of-use asset.

Lease payments are allocated between principal and finance cost. The finance cost is charged to profit or loss over the 
lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.

134

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.26 Leases (Continued)

Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the following:

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

the amount of the initial measurement of lease liability

any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received

any initial direct costs, and

restoration costs.

Right-of-use assets are generally depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the lease term on a straight-
line basis. If the Group is reasonably certain to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated over the 
underlying asset’s useful life.

Payments associated with short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognised on a straight-line basis as an 
expense in profit or loss. Short-term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or less. Low-value assets comprise 
containers and small items of office furniture.

Lease  income  from  operating  leases  where  the  Group  is  a  lessor  is  recognised  in  income  on  a  straight-line  basis  over 
the lease term (note 19). Initial direct costs incurred in obtaining an operating lease are added to the carrying amount 
of the underlying asset and recognised as expense over the lease term on the same basis as lease income. The respective 
leased assets are included in the consolidated balance sheet based on their nature. The Group did not need to make any 
adjustments to the accounting for assets held as lessor as a result of adopting the new leasing standard.

HKFRS  16  requires  sale  and  leaseback  transactions  to  be  determined  based  on  the  requirement  of  HKFRS  15  as  to 
whether the transfer of the relevant asset should be accounted as a sale.

2.27  Borrowing costs

Borrowing  costs  are  expensed  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  in  the  period  in  which  they  are  incurred, 
except to the extent that they are capitalised as being directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production 
of a qualifying asset which necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale.

The  capitalisation  of  borrowing  costs  as  part  of  the  cost  of  a  qualifying  asset  commences  when  expenditure  for  the 
asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for its 
intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the 
activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.

2.28 Derivative financial instruments

Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and 
are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. Changes in fair value are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss 
account.

2.29 Dividend distribution

Dividend distribution to the Company’s equity holders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in 
the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s Directors/equity holders.

135135

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.30 Government grants

Grants from the government are recognised at their fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be 
received and the Group will comply with all attached conditions.

Government  grants  relating  to  the  purchase  of  property,  plant  and  equipment  are  recognised  as  a  deduction  from  the 
carrying amount of the related assets in the consolidated balance sheet and are credited to profit or loss on a straight-
line basis over the expected lives of the related assets.

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

3.1  Financial risk factors

The  Group’s  activities  expose  it  to  a  variety  of  financial  risks:  foreign  exchange  risk,  price  risk,  credit  risk,  liquidity 
risk  and  cash  flow  and  fair  value  interest  rate  risk.  The  Group’s  overall  risk  management  policy  focuses  on  the 
unpredictability  of  financial  markets  and  seeks  to  minimise  potential  adverse  effects  on  the  Group’s  financial 
performance.

The  Group  has  regularly  monitored  current  and  expected  liquidity  requirements  against  the  cash  on  hand,  expected 
net  operating  cash  flow,  committed  facilities  and  its  compliance  with  loan  covenants,  to  ensure  the  Group’s  liquidity 
requirements can be met in the short and longer term.

The Group has paid ongoing attention on credit quality of counterparties, in particular major customers and financial 
institutions with relationship in terms of debt securities, derivatives and cash transactions. Credit qualities of respective 
counterparties are disclosed in respective notes to the consolidated financial statements.

(a)  Foreign exchange risk

The  Group  operates  internationally  and  is  exposed  to  foreign  exchange  risk  arising  from  various  currency 
exposures, primarily with respect to fluctuation in the exchange rates of foreign currencies to the US dollar. Foreign 
currency exposures are covered by forward contracts and options whenever appropriate.

Income and expenses from container transport and logistics activities are mainly denominated in US dollar and in 
various currencies, mainly including Euro, Canadian dollar, Japanese yen and Renminbi.

To  limit  currency  exposure,  the  US  dollar  based  activities  are  financed  primarily  by  loans  in  US  dollar.  With  all 
other  variables  held  constant,  an  average  change  in  the  US  dollar  exchange  rate  of  1%,  compared  with  all  other 
non-US  dollar  related  currencies,  has  a  positive/negative  effect  on  the  results  for  2019  of  approximately  US$3.5 
million (2018: US$3.4 million).

(b)  Price risk

The  container  transport  and  logistics  activities  are  sensitive  to  economic  fluctuations.  The  Group  is  exposed  to 
freight  rate  risk.  The  Group’s  revenue  will  increase/decrease  by  US$61.3  million  (2018:  US$58.3  million)  for  1% 
increase/reduction of the average container freight rates with all other variables held constant.

The  Group  is  exposed  to  bunker  price  risk  for  its  container  transport  and  logistics  activities.  Bunker  cost  is  one 
of  the  major  cost  components  of  container  transport  and  logistics  activities.  To  manage  its  price  risk  arising 
from  bunker,  the  Group  enters  into  bunker  price  derivative  contracts.  An  increase  in  bunker  price  can  only  be 
partially  compensated  through  freight  surcharge  bunker  price  adjustment.  With  all  other  variables  held  constant, 
the  operating  costs  will  be  increased  by  approximately  US$1.9  million  (2018:  US$1.9  million)  for  one  US  dollar 
increase in bunker price per ton.

136

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.1  Financial risk factors (Continued)

(b)  Price risk (Continued)

The  Group  is  also  exposed  to  equity/debt  securities  price  risk  because  of  investments  held  by  the  Group  include 
investments  at  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income  or  portfolio  investments  at  fair  value  through 
profit  or  loss  which  are  accounted  at  fair  value.  To  manage  its  price  risk  arising  from  investments  in  equity/debt 
securities,  the  Group  diversifies  its  portfolio.  If  the  prices  of  the  respective  quoted  equity/debt  securities  of  the 
Group  had  been  increased/decreased  by  1%  and  all  other  variables  held  constant,  the  profit  after  taxation  of  the 
Group for the year ended 31st December 2019 would increase/decrease by US$1.5 million (2018: US$3.7 million) 
as  a  result  of  the  changes  in  fair  value  of  equity/debt  securities  under  portfolio  investments  at  fair  value  through 
profit or loss.

(c)  Credit risk

The  Group  has  no  significant  concentrations  of  credit  risk.  It  has  policies  in  place  to  ensure  that  services  are 
provided to customers with an appropriate credit history.

The  extent  of  the  Group’s  credit  exposure  is  represented  by  the  aggregate  balance  of  cash  and  bank  balances, 
portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss, investments at amortised cost, restricted bank balances, 
trade receivables, other receivables and amounts due from related parties. The credit quality of these exposures is 
disclosed in relevant notes to the consolidated financial statements.

(d)  Liquidity risk

Prudent  liquidity  risk  management  implies  maintaining  sufficient  cash  and  cash  equivalents,  the  availability  of 
funding  through  an  adequate  amount  of  committed  credit  facilities  and  the  ability  to  close  out  market  positions. 
The  Group  aims  to  maintain  flexibility  in  funding  by  keeping  sufficient  cash  and  cash  equivalents  and  readily 
realisable liquid assets.

Surplus  cash  held  by  the  operating  entities  over  and  above  balance  required  for  working  capital  management  is 
transferred to the Group Treasury. Group Treasury invests surplus cash in interest bearing current accounts, time 
deposits,  money  market  deposits  and  marketable  securities,  choosing  instruments  with  appropriate  maturities 
or  sufficient  liquidity  to  provide  sufficient  head-room.  At  the  reporting  date,  the  Group  held  liquid  assets  of 
US$3,608.5  million  (2018:  US$1,962.7  million)  that  are  expected  to  readily  generate  cash  inflows  for  managing 
liquidity risk.

137137

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.1  Financial risk factors (Continued)

(d)  Liquidity risk (Continued)

The  table  below  analyses  the  Group’s  non-derivative  financial  liabilities  and  net-settled  derivative  financial 
liabilities  into  relevant  maturity  groupings  based  on  the  remaining  period  at  the  balance  sheet  date  to  the 
contractual  maturity  date.  The  amounts  disclosed  in  the  table  are  the  contractual  undiscounted  cash  flows. 
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.

US$’000

At 31st December 2019
Borrowings
Lease liabilities
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to joint ventures
Amounts due to fellow subsidiaries
Amounts due to related companies
Dividend payable

At 31st December 2018
Borrowings
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to joint ventures
Amounts due to fellow subsidiaries
Amounts due to related companies
Derivative financial instruments

(e)  Cash flow interest rate risk

Less than
 1 year

Between 1 
and 2 years

Between 2 
and 5 years

434,953
320,380
983,611
4,826
19,223
13,979
1,001,269

641,274
838,185
2,441
5,843
10,371
5,565

257,734
583,607
–
–
–
–
–

742,784
–
–
–
–
–

546,122
981,742
–
–
–
–
–

1,946,885
–
–
–
–
–

Over 
5 years

326,287
943,577
–
–
–
–
–

1,428,287
–
–
–
–
–

The  Group’s  income  and  operating  cash  flows  are  substantially  independent  of  changes  in  market  interest  rates. 
The Group has a policy to place surplus funds with creditable financial institutions which offer the best return for 
the Group on a short-term basis.

The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk through the impact of rate changes on interest bearing bank 
balances, borrowings and lease liabilities.

At  31st  December  2019,  if  interest  rates  had  been  0.1%  higher/lower  with  all  other  variables  held  constant,  post-
tax profit for the year would have been US$0.5 million higher/lower (2018: US$1.8 million lower/higher), mainly 
as  a  result  of  higher/lower  net  interest  income  (2018:  expense)  on  the  net  floating  rate  bank  balances  (2018: 
borrowings).

3.2  Capital risk management

The  Group’s  objectives  when  managing  capital  are  to  safeguard  the  Group’s  ability  to  continue  as  a  going  concern 
in  order  to  provide  returns  for  shareholders  and  benefits  for  other  stakeholders  and  to  maintain  an  optimal  capital 
structure to reduce the cost of capital.

In  order  to  maintain  or  adjust  the  capital  structure,  the  Group  may  adjust  the  amount  of  dividends  paid  to  equity 
holders, return capital to equity holders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.

138

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.2  Capital risk management (Continued)

Consistent  with  others  in  the  industry,  the  Group  monitors  capital  on  the  basis  of  the  gearing  ratio.  This  ratio  is 
calculated as net debt divided by total equity. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings and lease liabilities (including 
“current  and  non-current  borrowings  and  lease  liabilities”  as  shown  in  the  consolidated  balance  sheet)  less  restricted 
bank balances, cash and bank balances and portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss.

The gearing ratios at 31st December 2019 and 2018 were as follows:

US$’000

Total borrowings (note 40)

Total lease liabilities (note 41)

Less:  Restricted bank balances (note 26)

Cash and bank balances (note 36)

Portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss (note 35)

Net debt

Total equity

Gearing ratio

2019

(1,428,137)

(2,562,952)

2018

(4,197,756)

–

(3,991,089)

(4,197,756)

60,294

3,455,570

152,923

61,122

1,584,465

378,257

(322,302)

(2,173,912)

4,927,407

4,735,130

0.07

0.46

The change in net debt position results primarily from the profit generated during the year.

3.3  Fair value estimation

The  financial  instruments  that  are  measured  in  the  consolidated  balance  sheet  at  fair  value,  require  disclosure  of  fair 
value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy:

(cid:127)  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).

(cid:127) 

Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
(that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2).

(cid:127) 

Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).

139139

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.3  Fair value estimation (Continued)

The following table presents the Group’s financial assets and liability that are measured at fair value at 31st December 
2019 and 2018.

US$’000

Assets
Portfolio investments at fair value 

through profit or loss
– Equity securities
– Debt securities

Investments at fair value through 
other comprehensive income
– Other investments

Total assets

US$’000

Assets
Portfolio investments at fair value 

through profit or loss
– Equity securities
– Debt securities
– Funds and other investments
Investments at fair value through 
other comprehensive income
– Other investments

Total assets

Liability
Derivative financial instruments

Total liability

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

2019

37,673
115,250

–

152,923

–
–

15,694

15,694

37,673
115,250

15,694

168,617

–
–

–

–

2018

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

49,589
322,948
–

–

372,537

–

–

–
–
5,720

–

5,720

5,565

5,565

–
–
–

24,422

24,422

–

–

49,589
322,948
5,720

24,422

402,679

5,565

5,565

There were no transfers among levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year.

The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet 
date. A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, 
industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market 
transactions on an arm’s length basis. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current 
bid price. These instruments are included in level 1. Instruments included in level 1 comprise portfolio investments at 
fair value through profit or loss.

140

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.3  Fair value estimation (Continued)

The  fair  value  of  financial  instruments  that  are  not  traded  in  an  active  market  (for  example,  over-the-counter 
derivatives)  is  determined  by  using  valuation  techniques.  These  valuation  techniques  maximise  the  use  of  observable 
market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required 
to  fair  value  an  instrument  are  observable,  the  instrument  is  included  in  level  2.  Instruments  in  level  2  include  the 
derivative financial instruments.

If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.

Specific valuation techniques used to value levels 2 and 3 financial instruments include:

(cid:127)  Dealer quotes.

(cid:127) 

The  fair  value  of  forward  foreign  exchange  contracts  is  determined  using  forward  exchange  rates  at  the  balance 
sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value.

There were no changes in valuation techniques during the year.

Instruments included in level 3 mainly comprise unlisted equity securities classified as investments at fair value through 
other comprehensive income.

The following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments:

US$’000

Opening balance
Currency translation adjustments
Disposals
Disposal of subsidiaries
Fair value change recognised in other comprehensive income

Closing balance

2019

24,422
5
(808)
–
(7,925)

15,694

2018

45,383
(6)
(1)
(23)
(20,931)

24,422

4.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS

Estimates and judgements used in preparing the consolidated financial statements are continually evaluated and are based on 
historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances.

The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 
financial year are discussed below.

141141

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

4.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (CONTINUED)

(a)  Income taxes

The  Group  is  subject  to  income  tax  in  numerous  jurisdictions.  Significant  judgement  is  required  in  determining 
the  worldwide  provision  for  income  taxes.  There  are  many  transactions  and  calculations  for  which  the  ultimate  tax 
determination  is  uncertain  during  the  ordinary  course  of  business.  Where  the  final  tax  outcome  of  these  matters  is 
different  from  the  amounts  that  were  initially  recorded,  such  differences  will  impact  the  income  tax  and  deferred  tax 
provisions in the period in which such determination is made.

Deferred tax liabilities have not been established for income tax and withholding tax that would be payable on certain 
profits of overseas subsidiaries to be repatriated and distributed by way of dividends as the Directors consider that the 
timing of the reversal of the related temporary differences can be controlled or such profits will not be distributed and 
such temporary differences will not be reversed in the foreseeable future (note 24).

Recognition of deferred tax assets, which principally relate to tax losses, depends on the management’s expectation of 
future taxable profit that will be available against which tax losses can be utilised. The outcome of their actual utilisation 
may be different.

(b)  Property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets and intangible assets

Management determines the estimated useful lives and residual values for the Group’s property, plant and equipment, 
right-of-use assets and intangible assets. Management will revise the depreciation charge where useful lives and residual 
values are different from previously estimated.

Management  determines  the  estimated  useful  lives  and  related  depreciation  expenses  for  the  vessels  and  containers. 
Management  estimates  useful  lives  of  its  vessels  and  containers  by  reference  to  expected  usage  of  the  vessels  and 
containers,  expected  repair  and  maintenance,  and  technical  or  commercial  obsolescence  arising  from  changes  or 
improvements in the market. It could change significantly as a result of the changes of these factors.

Were  the  useful  lives  of  vessels  and  containers  to  differ  by  10%  from  management  estimates  with  all  other  variables 
held  constant,  it  is  estimated  that  depreciation  expense  would  increase  or  decrease  by  approximately  US$55.9  million 
or  US$38.7  million  respectively  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2019  (for  the  period  from  1st  July  2018  to  31st 
December  2018  subsequent  to  the  change  of  estimated  useful  lives  of  containers:  US$35.8  million  or  US$19.1  million 
respectively).

Management  determines  the  residual  values  for  its  vessels  and  containers.  This  estimate  is  based  on  the  current 
scrap  values  of  steels  in  an  active  market  at  each  measurement  date  since  management  decides  to  dispose  of  the  fully 
depreciated vessels and containers as scrap steels. Depreciation expense would increase where the residual values are less 
than previously estimated values.

Were the residual values of vessels and containers to differ by 10% from management estimates with all other variables 
held constant, it is estimated that depreciation expense would increase or decrease by approximately US$11.4 million or 
US$10.7 million respectively (2018: US$13.5 million or US$11.9 million respectively).

(c)  Provision of operating costs

Operating  costs,  which  mainly  comprise  cargo  cost,  vessel  and  voyage  costs,  equipment  and  repositioning  costs  and 
terminal  operating  cost.  Invoices  in  relation  to  these  expenses  are  received  several  months  after  the  expenses  have 
been incurred. Consequently, recognition of accrued operating costs is based on the known services entered, pattern of 
historical costs as well as the estimated vendor tariffs.

If  the  actual  expenses  of  a  voyage  differ  from  the  estimated  expenses,  this  will  have  an  impact  on  operating  costs  in 
future periods. Historically, the Group has not experienced significant deviation from the actual expenses.

142

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

4.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (CONTINUED)

(d)  Commitment to long-term service agreement

The  Group  entered  into  the  SPA  with  an  independent  third  party  to  sell  its  entire  interests  in  LBCT  LLC,  which 
operates the U.S. Terminal Business. Under the SPA, the Group was committed to enter into a 20-year Terminal Services 
Agreement (“TSA”) with Olivia Holdings, LLC and LBCT LLC. Based on the key terms of the TSA as stated in the SPA, 
the Group committed to place, or procure the placement of an annual minimum number of vessel lifts for 20 years.

Significant  estimates  are  involved  in  the  assessment  for  the  volume  commitment,  which  are  based  on  the  expected 
number of vessel lifts for the 20-year period. Management estimates the expected number of vessel lifts by reference to 
expected business performance, expected load factor, and future prospects of the market.

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION

(a)  Revenue

US$’000

Container transport and logistics

Others

2019

6,851,974

26,766

2018

6,546,964

25,691

6,878,740

6,572,655

The principal activities of the Group are container transport and logistics.

Revenue comprises gross freight, charter hire, service and other income from the operation of the container transport 
and logistics and rental income from the investment property.

(b)  Segment information

The  principal  activities  of  the  Group  are  container  transport  and  logistics.  Container  transport  and  logistics  include 
global  containerised  shipping  services  in  major  trade  lanes,  covering  Trans-Pacific,  Trans-Atlantic,  Asia/Europe,  Asia/
Australia and Intra-Asia trades, and integrated services over the management and control of effective storage and flow 
of goods. In accordance with the Group’s internal financial reporting provided to the chief operating decision-makers, 
who  are  responsible  for  allocating  resources,  assessing  performance  of  the  operating  segments  and  making  strategic 
decisions, the reportable operating segments are container transport and logistics and others. The Executive Directors 
are the Group’s chief operating decision makers.

143143

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

Operating segments

The segment results for the year ended 31st December 2019 are as follows:

US$’000

Revenue

Other operating income

Revenue from contracts with customers:

At a point in time

Over time

Revenue from other source:

Rental income

Other operating income

Operating profit

Finance costs (note 12)

Share of profits of joint ventures (note 21)

Share of profits of associated companies (note 22)

Profit before taxation

Taxation (note 13)

Profit after taxation

Profit on disposal of a subsidiary

Profit for the year

Fair value loss from an investment property

Capital expenditure

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment

Depreciation of right-of-use assets

Amortisation

Continuing operations

Container

transport

and logistics

6,851,974

25,978

Discontinued

Others

26,766

57,701

Sub-total

operation *

Total

6,878,740

83,679

111,608

1,198

6,990,348

84,877

6,877,952

84,467

6,962,419

112,806

7,075,225

517,328

6,334,646

6,851,974

–

6,851,974

25,978

–

–

–

26,766

26,766

57,701

517,328

6,334,646

–

111,608

517,328

6,446,254

6,851,974

111,608

6,963,582

26,766

6,878,740

83,679

–

26,766

111,608

1,198

6,990,348

84,877

6,877,952

84,467

6,962,419

112,806

7,075,225

279,281

(151,599)

4,116

10,028

141,826

(22,722)

119,104

–

119,104

–

369,323

213,477

195,767

20,081

82,000

–

–

–

82,000

(47,117)

34,883

–

34,883

(703)

703

11

–

–

361,281

(151,599)

4,116

10,028

223,826

(69,839)

153,987

76,828

(35,656)

–

–

41,172

–

41,172

–

1,153,634

438,109

(187,255)

4,116

10,028

264,998

(69,839)

195,159

1,153,634

153,987

1,194,806

1,348,793

(703)

370,026

213,488

195,767

20,081

–

17,166

–

–

–

(703)

387,192

213,488

195,767

20,081

144

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

Operating segments (Continued)

The segment results for the year ended 31st December 2018 are as follows:

US$’000

Revenue

Other operating income

Revenue from contracts with customers:

At a point in time

Over time

Revenue from other source:

Rental income

Other operating income

Operating profit

Finance costs (note 12)

Share of profits of joint ventures (note 21)

Share of profits of associated companies (note 22)

Profit before taxation

Taxation (note 13)

Profit for the year

Fair value gain from an investment property

Capital expenditure

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment

Amortisation

Continuing operations

Container

transport

and logistics

6,546,964

10,468

Discontinued

Others

25,691

72,053

Sub-total

operation *

Total

6,572,655

82,521

131,721

560

6,704,376

83,081

6,557,432

97,744

6,655,176

132,281

6,787,457

571,654

5,975,310

6,546,964

–

6,546,964

10,468

6,557,432

195,998

(143,191)

2,953

11,371

67,131

(12,396)

54,735

–

410,346

367,447

18,079

–

–

–

25,691

25,691

72,053

97,744

66,937

–

–

–

66,937

(46,224)

20,713

39,500

554

7

–

571,654

5,975,310

–

131,721

571,654

6,107,031

6,546,964

131,721

6,678,685

25,691

6,572,655

82,521

–

25,691

131,721

560

6,704,376

83,081

6,655,176

132,281

6,787,457

262,935

(143,191)

2,953

11,371

134,068

(58,620)

75,448

39,500

410,900

367,454

18,079

36,451

(3,733)

–

–

32,718

–

32,718

–

2,001

18,168

–

299,386

(146,924)

2,953

11,371

166,786

(58,620)

108,166

39,500

412,901

385,622

18,079

* 

The amount of revenue for discontinued operation is presented after eliminating inter-segment revenue of US$184.4 million for the year 

ended 31st December 2019 (2018: US$222.6 million).

145145

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

Operating segments (Continued)

The segment assets and liabilities at 31st December 2019 and 2018 are as follows:

US$’000

Segment assets

Joint ventures

Associated companies

Total assets

Segment liabilities

US$’000

Segment assets

Joint ventures

Associated companies

Assets held for sale (note 16)

Total assets

Segment liabilities

Liabilities directly associated with assets  

Container

transport

and logistics

9,478,546

10,964

137,665

2019

Others

Group

1,574,690

11,053,236

–

–

10,964

137,665

9,627,175

1,574,690

11,201,865

(5,115,615)

(1,158,843)

(6,274,458)

Container 

transport 

and logistics

7,401,147

9,418

139,676

7,550,241

472,732

2018

Others

2,030,887

–

–

2,030,887

–

Group

9,432,034

9,418

139,676

9,581,128

472,732

8,022,973

2,030,887

10,053,860

(5,058,132)

(119,550)

(5,177,682)

classified as held for sale (note 16)

(141,048)

–

(141,048)

Total liabilities

(5,199,180)

(119,550)

(5,318,730)

The  segment  of  “Others”  primarily  includes  assets  and  liabilities  of  property  and  corporate  level  activities.  Assets 
under  the  segment  of  “Others”  consist  primarily  of  investment  property,  investments  at  fair  value  through  other 
comprehensive  income,  investments  at  amortised  cost  and  portfolio  investments  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss 
together with cash and bank balances that are managed at the corporate level. Liabilities under the segment of “Others” 
primarily  include  creditors  and  accruals  and  deferred  taxation  liabilities  related  to  investment  property  and  corporate 
level activities.

146

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

Geographical information

The Group’s two reportable operating segments operate in four main geographical areas, even though they are managed 
on  a  worldwide  basis.  Freight  revenues  from  container  transport  and  logistics  are  analysed  based  on  the  outbound 
cargoes of each geographical territory.

The Group’s total assets mainly include container vessels and containers which are primarily utilised across geographical 
markets  for  shipment  of  cargoes  throughout  the  world.  Accordingly,  non-current  assets  by  geographical  areas  are  not 
presented.

Capital

Revenue

expenditure

US$’000

Year ended 31st December 2019

Continuing operations

Asia

Europe

North America

Australia

Unallocated*

Discontinued operation

North America

Year ended 31st December 2018

Continuing operations

Asia

Europe

North America

Australia

Unallocated*

Discontinued operation

North America

* 

Unallocated capital expenditure comprises additions to vessels, dry-docking, containers and intangible assets.

4,955,430

1,043,705

714,983

164,622

–

6,878,740

111,608

6,990,348

4,785,888

937,060

695,916

153,791

–

6,572,655

131,721

6,704,376

77,244

2,335

10,427

142

279,878

370,026

17,166

387,192

15,164

418

23,487

118

371,713

410,900

2,001

412,901

147147

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

6.  OPERATING COSTS

US$’000

Cargo

Vessel and voyage

Bunker cost

Equipment and repositioning

Direct operating expenses from property that generated rental income

2019

3,270,251

1,207,429

839,115

736,833

6,053,628

15,573

2018

3,169,113

1,053,866

844,390

777,105

5,844,474

15,365

6,069,201

5,859,839

7.  OTHER OPERATING INCOME

US$’000

2019

2018

Dividend income from investments at fair value  

through other comprehensive income

Interest income from banks

Interest income from investments at amortised cost

Income from portfolio investments at fair value  

through profit or loss

– Interest income

– Distribution

– Dividend income

Others

7,903

51,064

9,683

11,487

1,084

661

1,797

83,679

22,590

32,666

10,183

13,043

1,225

990

1,824

82,521

148

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

8.  OTHER GAINS, NET

US$’000

Fair value (loss)/gain from an investment property

Fair value gain/(loss) on portfolio investments at fair value 

through profit or loss (realised and unrealised)

Gain/(loss) on bunker price derivative contracts

Fair value gain on foreign exchange forward contracts

Profit on disposal of subsidiaries

Profit on partial disposal of a joint venture

Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment

Loss on disposal of right-of-use assets

Loss on disposal of investments at fair value 

through other comprehensive income

Loss on disposal of investments at amortised cost

Impairment on investments at amortised cost

Reversal of impairment on investments at amortised cost

Loss on disposal of intangible assets

Exchange gain/(loss)

9.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES

US$’000

Wages and salaries (including share-based compensation)

Pension and retirement benefits

– Defined contribution plans (note 25)

– Defined benefit plans (note 25)

Representing:

– Continuing operations

– Discontinued operation

2019

(703)

17,027

5,538

1,785

–

–

11,175

(146)

–

–

–

2,260

(3,356)

4,093

37,673

2019

589,079

31,479

1,105

621,663

516,565

105,098

621,663

2018

39,500

(19,500)

(4,718)

722

3,663

896

15,289

–

(1)

(706)

(1,985)

–

(657)

(14,172)

18,331

2018

590,497

30,951

1,258

622,706

497,774

124,932

622,706

Employee  benefit  expenses  of  US$117.2  million  (2018:  US$117.8  million)  are  included  in  “operating  costs”  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account.

149149

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

10.  DIRECTORS’ AND MANAGEMENT’S EMOLUMENTS

(a)  Directors’ emoluments

The remuneration of each Director is set out below:

Name of Director
US$’000

For the year ended  

31st December 2019

Mr. Xu Lirong
Mr. Huang Xiaowen*3
Mr. Wang Haimin
Mr. Yang Zhijian*2
Mr. Feng Boming*2
Mr. Zhang Wei*3
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Yan Jun
Ms. Wang Dan
Mr. Ip Sing Chi
Ms. Cui Hongqin
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard*5
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip
Ms. Chen Ying
Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung*4

Salaries
and
benefits

Estimated
money value
of other
benefits *1

Employer’s
contribution
to provident
fund scheme

Special
bonus

–
–
–
–
–
–
627
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
40
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
66
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
67
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

Fees

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
45
32
32
32
106
25
64
73
64
36

Total

–
–
–
–
–
–
800
45
32
32
32
106
25
64
73
64
36

150

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

10.  DIRECTORS’ AND MANAGEMENT’S EMOLUMENTS (CONTINUED)

(a)  Directors’ emoluments (Continued)

Name of Director
US$’000

For the year ended  

31st December 2018

Mr. Xu Lirong*6
Mr. Huang Xiaowen*6
Mr. Wang Haimin*6
Mr. Zhang Wei*6
Mr. Tung Chee Chen*7
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan*7
Mr. Yan Jun*6
Ms. Wang Dan*6
Mr. Ip Sing Chi*6
Ms. Cui Hongqin*6
Professor Roger King*7
Mr. Simon Murray*7
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson*6
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip*6
Ms. Chen Ying*6
Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward*7
Mr. Kwok King Man Clement*7

Salaries
and
benefits

Estimated
money value
of other
benefits *1

Employer’s
contribution
to provident
fund scheme

–
–
–
–
494
563
342
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
71
10
7
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
49
56
34
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

Fees

–
–
–
–
71
–
–
19
13
13
13
40
36
97
82
27
27
24
36
36

Total

–
–
–
–
685
629
383
19
13
13
13
40
36
97
82
27
27
24
36
36

*1 
*2 
*3 
*4 
*5 
*6 
*7 

Other benefits include share-based compensation, car related expenses and club membership.

Appointed on 18th September 2019.

Resigned on 18th September 2019.

Appointed on 17th May 2019.

Resigned on 17th May 2019.

Appointed on 3rd August 2018.

Resigned on 3rd August 2018.

During  the  year,  no  emoluments  were  paid  by  the  Group  to  any  of  the  Directors  as  an  inducement  to  join  or  upon 
joining  the  Group  or  as  compensation  for  loss  of  office.  No  Directors  of  the  Company  waived  or  agreed  to  waive  any 
emoluments during the year.

151151

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

10.  DIRECTORS’ AND MANAGEMENT’S EMOLUMENTS (CONTINUED)

(b)  Five highest paid individuals

The  five  individuals  whose  emoluments  were  the  highest  in  the  Group  for  the  year  include  one  (2018:  two)  Director 
whose emoluments are reflected in the analysis presented above. The emoluments payable to the remaining four (2018: 
three) individuals are as follows:

US$’000

Basic salaries, housing allowances,  

other allowances and benefits in kind

Discretionary bonuses
Estimated money value of other benefits
Pension costs – defined contribution plans
Share-based compensation

The emoluments of the five individuals fell within the following bands:

Emolument bands (US$)

576,901 ~ 641,000
641,001 ~ 705,100
769,201 ~ 833,300
833,301 ~ 897,400
897,401 ~ 961,500

(HK$4,500,001 ~ HK$5,000,000)
(HK$5,000,001 ~ HK$5,500,000)
(HK$6,000,001 ~ HK$6,500,000)
(HK$6,500,001 ~ HK$7,000,000)
(HK$7,000,001 ~ HK$7,500,000)

(c)  Key management compensation

US$’000

Salaries and other employee benefits
Estimated money value of other benefits
Pension costs – defined contribution plans
Share-based compensation

2019

2,172
629
21
250
180

3,252

2018

1,394
540
12
166
–

2,112

Number of individuals

2019

2018

1
–
1
2
1

5

2019

6,067
40
499
372

6,978

2
2
1
–
–

5

2018

5,348
114
500
–

5,962

The  Group  usually  determines  and  pays  discretionary  bonuses  to  employees  (including  Directors)  around  April/May 
each  year  based  on  the  actual  financial  results  of  the  Group  for  the  preceding  year.  The  discretionary  bonuses  shown 
above  represent  actual  payments  to  the  Directors  and  individuals  during  the  current  financial  year  in  relation  to 
performance for the preceding year.

152

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

11.  OPERATING PROFIT

US$’000

Operating profit is arrived at after crediting:

Operating lease rental income

Land and buildings

and after charging:

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment

Owned assets
Leased assets

Depreciation of right-of-use assets
Expenses relating to short-term leases and  

leases with low-value assets (2018:  
operating lease rental expenses)
Vessels and equipment
Terminals and berths
Land and buildings

Direct operating expenses from property  

that generated rental income
Amortisation of intangible assets
Amortisation of prepayments of lease premiums
Auditors’ remuneration

Audit
Non-audit

2019

2018

Continuing
operations

Discontinued
operation

Continuing
operations

Discontinued
operation

26,766

213,488
–
195,767

226,548
545
6,293

15,573
20,081
–

2,671
1,863

–

–
–
–

–
3,404
5

–
–
–

–
32

25,691

–

232,138
135,316
–

254,099
5,618
33,462

15,365
17,843
236

2,961
1,355

14,723
3,445
–

–
56,905
–

–
–
–

173
46

Expenses  relating  to  short-term  leases  and  leases  with  low-value  assets  of  US$228.7  million  and  US$4.7  million  (2018: 
operating lease rental expenses of US$266.8 million and US$26.4 million) respectively are included in “operating costs” and 
“business and administrative expenses” in the consolidated profit and loss account.

12.  FINANCE COSTS

US$’000

Interest expense

Bank loans and bank overdrafts
Lease liabilities (2018: finance lease obligations)

Amount capitalised under assets under construction

Net interest expense

2019

2018

58,434
93,165

151,599
–

151,599

60,681
82,636

143,317
(126)

143,191

For the year ended 31st December 2018, the borrowing costs of the loans to finance the assets under construction (note 17) 
represented an average capitalisation rate of approximately 3.2% per annum.

153153

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

13.  TAXATION

US$’000

Current taxation

Hong Kong profits tax
Overseas taxation

Deferred taxation

Hong Kong profits tax
Overseas taxation

2019

7,660
22,347

30,007

(32)
39,864

39,832

69,839

2018

2,044
14,785

16,829

(174)
41,965

41,791

58,620

Taxation  has  been  provided  at  the  appropriate  tax  rates  prevailing  in  the  countries  in  which  the  Group  operates  on  the 
estimated  assessable  profits  for  the  year.  These  rates  range  from  5%  to  46%  (2018:  10%  to  46%)  and  the  rate  applicable  for 
Hong Kong profits tax is 16.5% (2018: 16.5%).

The associated companies in the PRC enjoy preferential tax treatment.

The  tax  of  the  Group’s  profit  before  taxation  differs  from  the  theoretical  amount  that  would  arise  using  the  applicable  tax 
rates, being the weighted average of rates prevailing in the territories in which the Group operates, as follows:

US$’000

Profit before taxation

Share of profits of joint ventures

Share of profits of associated companies

Tax calculated at applicable tax rates

Income not subject to tax

Expenses not deductible for tax purposes

Tax losses not recognised

Temporary differences not recognised

Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses

Utilisation of previously unrecognised temporary differences

Withholding tax

Change in tax rates

Other items

2019

223,826

(4,116)

(10,028)

209,682

38,357

(342,218)

326,929

1,876

1,791

(1,519)

(544)

45,740

1,523

(2,096)

69,839

2018

134,068

(2,953)

(11,371)

119,744

21,129

(293,893)

300,502

2,872

355

(686)

(642)

14,741

(460)

14,702

58,620

154

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

14.  EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE

The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share is based on the Group’s profit attributable to equity holders 
of the Company divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.

The basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share are the same since there are no potential dilutive shares.

Number of ordinary shares in issue (thousands)

Group’s profit from continuing operations attributable

to equity holders of the Company (US$’000)

Earnings per share from continuing operations attributable

2019

625,793

2018

625,793

153,987

75,448

to equity holders of the Company (US cents)

24.6

12.1

Group’s profit from discontinued operation attributable

to equity holders of the Company (US$’000)

Earnings per share from discontinued operation attributable

1,194,806

32,718

to equity holders of the Company (US cents)

190.9

5.2

15.  DIVIDENDS

US$’000

Interim paid of US6.66 cents (2018: nil) per ordinary share

Special paid of US160.0 cents (2018: nil) per ordinary share

Proposed final of US2.69 cents (2018: US7.7 cents) per ordinary share

Proposed special of US24.0 cents (2018: nil) per ordinary share

2019

41,678

1,001,269

16,834

150,190

1,209,971

2018

–

–

48,181

–

48,181

The Board of Directors declared a special dividend of US160.0 cents (2018: nil) per ordinary share on 6th December 2019. 
The declared special dividend was paid on 3rd February 2020.

The Board of Directors proposes a final dividend in respect of 2019 of US2.69 cents (2018: US7.7 cents) per ordinary share. 
In addition, the Board of Directors proposes a special dividend of US24.0 cents per ordinary share. The proposed final and 
special dividends will be accounted for as an appropriation of retained profit in the year ending 31st December 2020.

155155

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

16.  DISCONTINUED OPERATION

The  U.S.  Terminal  Business  was  classified  as  discontinued  operation  as  at  31st  December  2018  pursuant  to  the  divestment 
mentioned in note 1.

On  29th  April  2019,  the  Group  entered  into  the  SPA  with  Olivia  Holdings,  LLC  relating  to  the  sale  and  purchase  of  the 
entire interests in LBCT LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company which operates the U.S. Terminal Business, for a 
consideration of US$1,780.0 million (subject to certain post-completion adjustments).

The  transaction  was  completed  on  24th  October  2019.  After  transaction  costs  and  taxation,  the  net  profit  arising  on  the 
disposal was approximately US$1,153.6 million which has been recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account for the 
year ended 31st December 2019.

On  completion  of  the  disposal,  a  terminal  services  agreement  was  entered  with  Olivia  Holdings,  LLC  and  LBCT  LLC  to 
which the Group committed to place, or procure the placement of an annual minimum number of vessel lifts (“MVC”) for 20 
years. The Group expects the MVC is achievable.

Analysis of the results, cash flows and assets and liabilities of the U.S. Terminal Business is as follows:

(a)  Discontinued operation

(i)  Results

US$’000

Revenue
Operating costs

Gross profit
Other operating income
Business and administrative expenses
Other losses, net

Operating profit
Finance costs

Profit after taxation
Profit on disposal of a subsidiary

Profit from discontinued operation

Note:

2019

111,608
(12,048)

99,560
1,198
(23,930)
–

76,828
(35,656)

41,172
1,153,634

1,194,806

2018

131,721
(67,029)

64,692
560
(28,394)
(407)

36,451
(3,733)

32,718
–

32,718

The  Directors  consider  it  is  more  appropriate  to  reflect  only  the  revenue  and  the  results  arising  from  transactions  with  third  parties 

under the discontinued operation. The inter-company profits are presented under continuing operations.

(ii)  Cash flows

US$’000

Operating cash flows
Investing cash flows
Financing cash flows

Total cash flows

156

2019

138,719
1,751,412
(116,848)

1,773,283

2018

32,035
1,569
(15,625)

17,979

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

16.  DISCONTINUED OPERATION (CONTINUED)

(b)  Assets held for sale

US$’000

ASSETS
Non-current asset
Property, plant and equipment

Current assets
Inventories
Debtors and prepayments
Amount due from immediate holding company
Amount due from a fellow subsidiary
Cash and bank balances

Total assets (before intra-group elimination)
Less: Intra-group elimination

Total assets

(c)  Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale

US$’000

LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings
Other non-current liabilities

Current liabilities
Creditors and accruals
Amount due to an intermediate holding company
Amounts due to fellow subsidiaries
Borrowings

Total liabilities (before intra-group elimination)
Less: Intra-group elimination

Total liabilities

Note:

2018

371,547

5,360
34,711
401
7,381
53,733

101,586

473,133
(401)

472,732

2018

91,822
10,513

102,335

22,730
34,908
32,620
15,778

106,036

208,371
(67,323)

141,048

As  at  31st  December  2018,  assets  held  for  sale  and  liabilities  directly  associated  with  assets  held  for  sale  are  presented  after  elimination  of 

intra-group balances of US$0.4 million and US$67.3 million respectively. As at 31st December 2018, the aggregate net book amount of assets 

pledged as securities for bank loans and finance leases amounted to US$137.1 million.

157157

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

16.  DISCONTINUED OPERATION (CONTINUED)

(d)  Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities

The  Group  entered  into  the  Preferential  Assignment  Agreement  (the  “Agreement”)  with  the  City  of  Long  Beach 
(“COLB”)  for  the  use  of  the  Middle  Harbor  Terminal  in  Long  Beach,  California  USA  on  30th  April  2012.  The  term 
of  the  Agreement  is  40  years  commencing  on  1st  July  2011.  As  of  31st  December  2018,  the  Group  signed  several 
Amendments  to  the  Agreement  with  COLB,  which  has  amended  certain  terms  in  the  Agreement  and  has  revised  the 
expected guaranteed minimum annual compensation to be made for the relevant period of the lease term.

On  adoption  of  HKFRS  16,  the  Group  recognised  lease  liabilities  of  US$847.6  million  and  right-of-use  assets  of 
US$819.1 million as at 1st January 2019 in relation to the Agreement which had previously been classified as operating 
leases under the principles of HKAS 17.

17.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Container

vessels and

capitalised

dry-docking

Terminal

Freehold

land and

Leasehold

Vehicles,

Assets

under

Containers

equipment

buildings

Buildings

improvement

computer

and

and

outside

outside

and

and other

costs

construction

chassis

improvement

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

furniture

equipment

Total

US$’000

Cost

At 1st January 2019

5,895,186

24,536

2,577,586

82,194

7,188

47,218

57,157

148,664

8,839,729

Adjustment on adoption of  

HKFRS 16 (note 2.1(b))

(3,376,783)

–

(151,008)

–

Restated balance at 1st January 2019

2,518,403

24,536

2,426,578

82,194

Currency translation adjustments

Additions

Reclassification

Disposals/written off

–

21,552

89,206

–

–

–

(13,619)

(24,536)

(2)

216,469

(74,737)

(60,429)

–

–

–

–

–

7,188

168

30

–

–

–

–

–

(3,527,791)

47,218

(745)

–

–

–

57,157

(221)

11,648

–

148,664

5,311,938

(250)

34,443

–

(1,050)

284,142

14,469

(2,084)

(7,316)

(107,984)

At 31st December 2019

2,615,542

Accumulated depreciation

At 1st January 2019

Adjustment on adoption of  

HKFRS 16 (note 2.1(b))

Restated balance at 1st January 2019

Currency translation adjustments

Charge for the year

Reclassification

Disposals/written off

At 31st December 2019

Net book amount

1,619,311

(771,074)

848,237

–

104,906

36,468

(13,526)

976,085

At 31st December 2019

1,639,457

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2,507,879

82,194

7,386

46,473

66,500

175,541

5,501,515

1,106,322

55,384

3,234

20,670

46,716

108,035

2,959,672

(50,571)

–

1,055,751

(4)

78,188

19,954

(45,729)

55,384

–

3,378

–

–

–

3,234

133

79

–

–

–

–

–

(821,645)

20,670

(323)

1,615

–

–

46,716

108,035

2,138,027

(194)

6,481

–

(2,023)

(146)

18,841

–

(534)

213,488

56,422

(7,034)

(68,312)

1,108,160

58,762

3,446

21,962

50,980

119,696

2,339,091

1,399,719

23,432

At 31st December 2018

4,275,875

24,536

1,471,264

26,810

Net book amount of leased assets

At 31st December 2019

At 31st December 2018

–

2,605,709

–

–

–

100,437

–

–

158

3,940

3,954

–

–

24,511

15,520

55,845

3,162,424

26,548

10,441

40,629

5,880,057

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2,706,146

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

17.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)

Container

vessels and

capitalised

dry-docking

Terminal

Freehold

land and

Leasehold

Assets

under

Containers

equipment

buildings

Buildings

improvement

and

and

outside

outside

and

Vehicles,

computer

and other

costs

construction

chassis

improvement

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

furniture

equipment

Total

US$’000

Cost

At 1st January 2018

5,729,447

172,882

2,356,667

500,095

Currency translation adjustments

Government grants

Additions

Reclassification

Classified as assets held for sale (note 16)

Disposals/written off

Disposal of subsidiaries

–

–

30,794

163,520

–

(28,575)

–

–

–

(49)

–

54,532

301,646

(170,155)

(32,723)

–

–

–

–

(80,678)

–

–

(2,817)

1,148

6,635

(414,814)

(8,053)

–

7,175

10

49,541

(2,323)

–

3

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

60,134

(1,593)

–

4,632

–

(1,635)

(4,165)

(216)

160,398

9,036,339

(1,685)

–

(5,640)

(2,817)

17,922

410,677

–

–

(27,691)

(280)

–

(449,172)

(149,162)

(496)

At 31st December 2018

5,895,186

24,536

2,577,586

82,194

7,188

47,218

57,157

148,664

8,839,729

Accumulated depreciation

At 1st January 2018

Currency translation adjustments

Charge for the year

Classified as assets held for sale (note 16)

Disposals/written off

Disposal of subsidiaries

At 31st December 2018

Net book amount

At 31st December 2018

1,415,252

–

232,265

–

(28,206)

–

1,619,311

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

1,060,319

117,774

3,150

(39)

108,048

–

(62,006)

–

–

22,058

(76,995)

(7,453)

–

7

77

–

–

–

19,916

(681)

1,435

–

–

–

47,652

(1,406)

5,376

(630)

(4,060)

(216)

120,819

2,784,882

(1,380)

16,363

–

(3,499)

385,622

(77,625)

(27,570)

(129,295)

(197)

(413)

1,106,322

55,384

3,234

20,670

46,716

108,035

2,959,672

4,275,875

24,536

1,471,264

26,810

At 31st December 2017

4,314,195

172,882

1,296,348

382,321

Net book amount of leased assets

At 31st December 2018

At 31st December 2017

2,605,709

2,549,229

–

–

100,437

–

109,391

91,301

3,954

4,025

–

–

26,548

10,441

40,629

5,880,057

29,625

12,482

39,579

6,251,457

–

–

–

–

–

2,706,146

761

2,750,682

(a)  The  aggregate  net  book  amount  of  assets  pledged  as  security  for  bank  loans  amounts  to  US$2,100.7  million  (2018: 
US$2,418.2  million).  Specific  charges  on  vessels  of  the  Group  include  legal  mortgages  and  assignments  of  insurance 
claims and charter hire income relating to these vessels.

(b)  Depreciation charge of US$190.2 million (2018: US$347.0 million) for the year has been expensed in “operating costs” 

and US$23.3 million (2018: US$20.5 million) in “business and administrative expenses”.

(c)  As at 31st December 2019 and 2018, the buildings outside Hong Kong are held under medium-term leasehold land.

(d)  Included in the container vessels and capitalised dry-docking costs, the net book value of capitalised dry-docking costs 

amounts to US$46.8 million (2018: US$58.6 million).

159159

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

17.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)

As  at  31st  December  2018,  property,  plant  and  equipment  (mainly  represent  container  vessels)  included  the  following 
amounts where the Group was a lessee under finance leases:

US$’000

Cost – capitalised finance leases
Accumulated depreciation

Net book amount

2018

3,527,791
(821,645)

2,706,146

As at 31st December 2018, the Group leased various container vessels, containers, terminal equipment and other equipment 
under non-cancellable finance lease agreements. The lease terms were between 5 and 25 years.

From  1st  January  2019,  leased  assets  are  presented  as  a  separate  line  item  in  the  consolidated  balance  sheet  (see  note  18). 
Refer to note 2.1(b) for details about the changes in accounting policy.

18.  RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS

Container
vessels and
capitalised
dry-docking
costs

Containers

Terminal
leases

Land and
buildings

–

–

–

–

3,463,087

151,008

22,064

111,726

3,463,087

151,008

22,064

111,726

–
3,038
(89,206)
(11,699)

–
–
74,737
(170)

–
582
–
–

(1,380) 
59,224
–
(2,763)

Vehicles,
furniture
and other
equipment

–

913

913

(13)
506
–
–

Total

–

3,748,798

3,748,798

(1,393)
63,350
(14,469)
(14,632)

US$’000
Cost

At 1st January 2019

Adjustment on adoption of  
HKFRS 16 (note 2.1(b))

Restated balance at  
1st January 2019
Currency translation  

adjustments

Additions
Reclassification
Disposals/written off

At 31st December 2019

3,365,220

225,575

22,646

166,807

1,406

3,781,654

Accumulated depreciation

At 1st January 2019

Adjustment on adoption of  
HKFRS 16 (note 2.1(b))

Restated balance at  
1st January 2019
Currency translation  

adjustments

Charge for the year
Reclassification
Disposals/written off

At 31st December 2019

Net book amount

–

–

771,074

50,571

771,074

50,571

–
152,121
(36,468)
(11,531)

875,196

–
6,750
(19,954)
(64)

37,303

–

–

–

–
3,938
–
–

3,938

–

2,659

2,659

(396)
32,511
–
(677)

34,097

At 31st December 2019

2,490,024

188,272

18,708

132,710

–

–

–

(1)
447
–
–

446

960

–

824,304

824,304

(397)
195,767
(56,422)
(12,272)

950,980

2,830,674

160

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

19.  INVESTMENT PROPERTY

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year

Additions

Fair value (loss)/gain

Balance at end of year

2019

310,000

703

310,703

(703)

310,000

2018

270,000

500

270,500

39,500

310,000

Background and valuation processes of the Group

The  investment  property,  “Wall  Street  Plaza”,  is  a  commercial  property  located  at  88,  Pine  Street,  New  York,  USA.  The 
property is situated on three parcels of freehold land, all of which are wholly owned by the Group.

Valuation processes of the Group

The  Group’s  investment  property  was  valued  at  31st  December  2019  and  2018  by  an  independent  professionally  qualified 
valuer  who  holds  a  recognised  relevant  professional  qualification.  The  Group’s  finance  department  reviews  the  valuation 
performed  by  the  independent  valuer  for  financial  reporting  purposes.  This  team  reports  directly  to  the  Chief  Financial 
Officer (“CFO”). Discussions of valuation processes and results are held between the CFO, the finance team and the valuer. 
As at 31st December 2019 and 2018, the fair value of the property has been determined by Cushman & Wakefield, Inc..

Valuation techniques

Fair  value  of  the  investment  property  is  derived  by  using  the  discounted  cash  flow  method  with  significant  unobservable 
inputs  (level  3).  The  net  present  value  of  the  income  stream  is  estimated  by  applying  an  appropriate  discount  rate  which 
reflects the risk profile.

There were no changes to the valuation techniques during the year.

Information about fair value measurement using significant unobservable inputs

Discount  rate  is  estimated  by  Cushman  &  Wakefield,  Inc.  based  on  the  risk  profile  of  the  property  being  valued.  If  the 
discount rate is higher, the fair value would be lower. At 31st December 2019, discount rate of 7.0% per annum (2018: 7.0% 
per annum) is used in the valuation.

Net  operating  income  growth  rates  of  3%  per  annum  (2018:  3%  per  annum)  for  the  second  and  third  years  and  3%  per 
annum (2018: 3% per annum) for the remaining years are used in the valuation. If the growth rate is higher, the fair value 
would be higher.

Prevailing market rents are estimated based on recent lettings of US$52 per sq ft to US$56 per sq ft (2018: US$52 per sq ft to 
US$56 per sq ft), within the subject property. If the rents are higher, the fair value would be higher.

161161

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

20.  PREPAYMENTS OF LEASE PREMIUMS

As  at  31st  December  2018,  the  Group’s  interests  in  leasehold  land  and  land  use  rights  represented  prepaid  operating  lease 
payments for leases between 27 and 41 years and their net book values are analysed as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year

Adjustment on adoption of HKFRS 16 (note 2.1(b))

Restated balance at beginning of year

Currency translation adjustments

Amortisation

Balance at end of year

2019

7,452

(7,452)

–

–

–

–

2018

7,972

–

7,972

(284)

(236)

7,452

For  the  year  ended  31st  December  2018,  amortisation  of  US$0.2  million  was  included  in  “business  and  administrative 
expenses” in the consolidated profit and loss account.

21.  INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES

US$’000

Share of net assets

2019

10,163

2018

8,940

The Group’s share of assets, liabilities and results of the joint ventures are summarised below:

US$’000

Non-current assets

Current assets

Current liabilities

Share of net assets

Income

Expenses

Share of profits of joint ventures

Share of total comprehensive income of joint ventures

Particulars of the joint ventures at 31st December 2019 are shown on page 199.

2019

1,138

11,921

(2,896)

10,163

16,923

(12,807)

4,116

4,101

2018

1,083

9,604

(1,747)

8,940

14,599

(11,646)

2,953

2,575

162

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

22.  INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES

US$’000

Share of net assets

2019

137,665

2018

139,676

The Group’s share of assets, liabilities and results of the associated companies are summarised as follows:

US$’000

Non-current assets

Current assets

Non-current liabilities

Current liabilities

Share of net assets

Income

Expenses

Share of profits of associated companies

Share of total comprehensive income of associated companies

Particulars of the associated companies at 31st December 2019 are shown on page 199.

23.  INTANGIBLE ASSETS

US$’000

At 1st January 2018

Cost

Accumulated amortisation

Net book amount

Year ended 31st December 2018

Opening net book amount

Additions

Disposals/written off

Amortisation

Closing net book amount

At 31st December 2018

Cost

Accumulated amortisation

Net book amount

2019

123,095

17,395

(107)

(2,718)

137,665

39,424

(29,396)

10,028

7,962

2018

131,191

12,155

(132)

(3,538)

139,676

39,516

(28,145)

11,371

5,000

Computer

software costs

145,389

(96,185)

49,204

49,204

1,724

(657)

(17,843)

32,428

146,452

(114,024)

32,428

163163

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

23.  INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED)

US$’000

Year ended 31st December 2019

Opening net book amount

Currency translation adjustments

Additions

Disposals/written off

Amortisation

Closing net book amount

At 31st December 2019

Cost

Accumulated amortisation

Net book amount

Computer

software costs

32,428

2

21,831

(3,356)

(20,081)

30,824

160,479

(129,655)

30,824

Amortisation  of  US$20.1  million  (2018:  US$17.8  million)  is  included  in  “business  and  administrative  expenses”  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account.

24.  DEFERRED TAXATION ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets

Deferred taxation liabilities

2019

5,083

2018

1,233

(150,479)

(106,827)

(145,396)

(105,594)

Deferred  taxation  assets  and  liabilities  are  offset  when  there  is  a  legal  right  to  set  off  current  taxation  assets  with  current 
taxation  liabilities  and  when  the  deferred  taxation  relates  to  the  same  taxation  authority.  The  above  assets/(liabilities) 
shown in the consolidated balance sheet are determined after appropriate offsetting of the relevant amounts and include the 
following:

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets to be recovered after more than twelve months

2019

3,892

2018

299

Deferred taxation liabilities to be settled after more than twelve months

(150,478)

(106,820)

164

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

24.  DEFERRED TAXATION ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)

Deferred  taxation  is  calculated  in  full  on  temporary  differences  under  the  liability  method  using  applicable  tax  rates 
prevailing in the countries in which the Group operates. The movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities (prior to 
offsetting of balances within the same taxation jurisdiction) during the year were as follows:

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets

At 1st January 2018
Currency translation adjustments
(Charged)/credited to consolidated profit  

and loss account

At 31st December 2018
Currency translation adjustments
(Charged)/credited to consolidated profit  

and loss account

At 31st December 2019

Accelerated
accounting
depreciation

Revenue
expenditure

689
(51)

(120)

518
13

127

658

3,919
(74)

(478)

3,367
26

119

3,512

Tax
losses

4,295
(9)

375

4,661
(9)

(2,585)

2,067

US$’000

Deferred taxation liabilities

At 1st January 2018
Currency translation adjustments
Charged/(credited) to consolidated 

profit and loss account

At 31st December 2018
Currency translation adjustments
Charged/(credited) to consolidated 

profit and loss account

Accelerated
tax
depreciation

Revaluation
of investment
property

Revenue
expenditure

Undistributed
profits of
subsidiaries
and affiliates

1,678
(76)

164

1,766
(2)

60,062
–

27,573

87,635
–

(13)

(500)

8,586
–

(234)

8,352
2

(7,142)

1,212

2,322
–

14,065

16,387
–

45,148

61,535

Total

8,903
(134)

(223)

8,546
30 

(2,339)

6,237

Total

72,648
(76)

41,568

114,140
–

37,493

151,633

At 31st December 2019

1,751

87,135

Deferred  taxation  assets  of  US$34.0  million  (2018:  US$33.6  million)  arising  from  unused  tax  losses  of  US$176.6  million 
(2018: US$159.0 million) have not been recognised in the consolidated financial statements. Unused tax losses of US$122.0 
million  (2018:  US$113.1  million)  have  no  expiry  date  and  the  remaining  balance  will  expire  at  various  dates  up  to  and 
including 2039.

Except for the deferred taxation liabilities of US$60.0 million (2018: US$14.5 million) recognised as at 31st December 2019 
for current intention to remit retained profit of a subsidiary of US$200.0 million (2018: US$48.3 million), deferred taxation 
liabilities of US$33.2 million (2018: US$106.4 million) on temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries 
of  US$195.6  million  (2018:  US$439.3  million)  have  not  been  recognised  as  there  is  no  current  intention  of  remitting  the 
retained profit of these subsidiaries to the holding companies in the foreseeable future.

165165

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

25.  PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS

The  Group  operates  a  number  of  defined  benefit  and  defined  contribution  pension  and  retirement  schemes  in  the  main 
countries  in  which  the  Group  operates.  The  total  charges  to  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  for  the  year  were 
US$32.6 million (2018: US$32.2 million).

Defined contribution schemes

The principal defined contribution schemes are operated in the PRC and the USA. These schemes cover approximately 81% 
of the Group’s employees. Contributions to the defined contribution schemes, all the assets of which are held in trust funds 
separate  from  the  Group,  are  based  on  a  percentage  of  an  employee’s  salary,  depending  upon  the  length  of  service  of  the 
employee,  but  the  Group’s  contributions  to  certain  schemes  may  be  reduced  by  contributions  forfeited  by  those  employees 
who leave the schemes prior to vesting fully in those contributions.

In  2008,  the  Group  terminated  the  defined  benefit  scheme  and  post-retirement  medical  plans  in  the  USA  at  the  request  of 
the labour unions. All the pension assets and obligations were transferred to a defined benefit multi-employer pension plan 
and a defined benefit multi-employer post-retirement medical plan (the “Plans”) together with other industry players. Since 
the Group is not able to identify its share of the underlying financial position and performance of the Plans with sufficient 
reliability for accounting purposes, accordingly the Plans are accounted for by the Group as defined contribution plans.

The charges for the defined contribution schemes to the consolidated profit and loss account during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Contributions to the schemes
Forfeitures utilised

Defined benefit scheme

The amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are as follows:

US$’000

Net scheme liabilities

Net funded scheme liabilities

2019

31,594
(115)

31,479

2018

31,022
(71)

30,951

2019

(11,494)

2018

(3,200)

The  principal  defined  benefit  scheme  is  operated  in  the  United  Kingdom  which  was  valued  by  Barnett  Waddingham  LLP. 
The  defined  benefit  scheme  (the “Scheme”)  covers  less  than  1%  of  the  Group’s  employees  and  is  funded.  The  assets  of  the 
Scheme  are  held  in  trust  funds  separate  from  the  Group.  Contributions  to  the  Scheme  are  assessed  in  accordance  with  the 
advice of qualified actuaries in compliance with local practice and regulations. The actuarial assumptions used to calculate 
the projected benefit obligations of the Group’s pension schemes vary according to the economic conditions of the countries 
in which they are situated.

The net scheme liabilities of the Scheme recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are determined as follows:

US$’000

Fair value of plan assets

Present value of funded obligations

Deficit of funded plan

2019

209,708

(221,202)

(11,494)

2018

190,210

(193,410)

(3,200)

166

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

25.  PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

Defined benefit scheme (Continued)

Net funded scheme liabilities (Continued)

Movements in the fair value of the plan assets of the Scheme during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year

Currency translation adjustments

Interest income on plan assets

Remeasurement gain/(loss) on assets

Contributions from the Group

Contributions from the plan members

Benefits paid

Balance at end of year

Movements in the present value of obligations of the Scheme during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year

Currency translation adjustments

Current service cost

Interest expense

Experience losses on liabilities

Losses/(gains) from changes to demographic assumptions

Losses/(gains) from changes to financial assumptions

Contributions from the plan members

Benefits paid

Balance at end of year

2019

190,210

7,295

5,233

16,959

3,050

136

(13,175)

209,708

2019

193,410

7,450

1,042

5,296

2,441

7,269

17,333

136

(13,175)

2018

220,490

(13,384)

5,326

(13,261)

2,887

105

(11,953)

190,210

2018

220,247

(13,419)

1,290

5,294

65

(1,384)

(6,835)

105

(11,953)

221,202

193,410

The charges of the Scheme recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account are as follows:

US$’000

Current service cost

Interest expense

Interest income on plan assets

Net expense recognised for the year

2019

1,042

5,296

(5,233)

1,105

2018

1,290

5,294

(5,326)

1,258

Charges  of  US$1.1  million  (2018:  US$1.3  million)  were  included  in  “business  and  administrative  expenses”  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account.

167167

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

25.  PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

Defined benefit scheme (Continued)

Net funded scheme liabilities (Continued)

The main actuarial assumptions made for the Scheme were as follows:

Discount rate
Inflation rate
Expected future salary increases
Expected future pension increases

2019

1.9%
3.3%
2.3%
2.4%

2018

2.8%
3.5%
3.5%
2.6%

Actual return on plan assets (US$’000)

22,192

(7,935)

At 31st December 2019, if discount rate had been 0.2% higher/lower, with all other variables held constant, the fair value of 
the funded obligations would have been US$6.0 million lower/US$6.3 million higher. At 31st December 2019, if inflation rate 
had been 0.2% higher/lower, with all other variables held constant, the fair value of the funded obligations would have been 
US$4.0  million  higher/US$2.2  million  lower.  The  sensitivities  show  the  likely  effect  of  a  single  assumption  being  adjusted 
while holding all other assumptions constant.

Plan assets of the Scheme comprise the following:

US$’000

Equity
Debt
Others

2019

2018

67,420
131,689
10,599

209,708

32%
63%
5%

100%

60,240
118,333
11,637

190,210

32%
62%
6%

100%

Expected  normal  and  deficit  reduction  contributions  to  the  Scheme  for  the  year  ending  31st  December  2020  is  US$3.0 
million.

Through its defined benefit pension plan, the Group is exposed to a number of risks as follows:

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

Investment risk. The Scheme holds investments in asset classes, such as equities, which have volatile market values and 
while these assets are expected to provide real returns over the long-term, the short-term volatility can cause additional 
funding to be required if deficit emerges.

Interest rate and market risk. The Scheme’s liabilities are assessed using market yields on high quality corporate bonds 
to  discount  the  liabilities.  As  the  Scheme  holds  assets  such  as  equities,  the  value  of  the  assets  and  liabilities  may  not 
move in the same way.

Inflation risk. A significant proportion of the benefits under the Scheme are linked to inflation. Although the Scheme’s 
assets are expected to provide a good hedge against inflation over the long term, movements over the short-term could 
lead to deficits emerging.

(cid:127) 

Longevity and other demographic risk. If members live longer than assumed, a deficit will emerge in the Scheme.

168

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

26.  RESTRICTED BANK BALANCES

US$’000

Non-current
Current

2019

56,795
3,499

60,294

2018

58,001
3,121

61,122

As  at  31st  December  2019,  the  restricted  bank  balances  of  US$60.3  million  (2018:  US$61.1  million)  are  funds  pledged  as 
securities for banking facilities or required to be utilised for specific purposes.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s restricted bank balances are mainly denominated in US dollar (2018: US dollar).

The credit quality of restricted bank balances by reference to Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

AA

A

BBB

2019

1,669

58,624

1

60,294

27.  INVESTMENTS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year

Currency translation adjustments

Disposals

Disposal of subsidiaries

Change in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income

Balance at end of year

Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income include the following:

US$’000

Unlisted equity securities

Others

2019

24,422

5

(808)

–

(7,925)

15,694

2019

15,694

–

15,694

2018

1,522

59,595

5

61,122

2018

45,383

(6)

(1)

(23)

(20,931)

24,422

2018

23,100

1,322

24,422

169169

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

27.  INVESTMENTS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 

(CONTINUED)
The carrying amounts of the Group’s investments at fair value through other comprehensive income are denominated in the 
following currencies:

US$’000

Renminbi

Hong Kong dollar

Other currencies

28.  INVESTMENTS AT AMORTISED COST

US$’000

Listed debt securities

Hong Kong

Overseas

Less: Current portion included in current assets

Market value

Movements in investments at amortised cost are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year

Adjustment on adoption of HKFRS 9

Restated balance at beginning of year

Additions

Disposals

Redemptions on maturity

Amortisation

Impairment

Reversal of impairment

Balance at end of year

2019

15,660

–

34

15,694

2018

23,129

1,166

127

24,422

2019

2018

86,361

104,945

191,306

(43,886)

147,420

199,305

2019

222,959

–

222,959

–

–

(33,842)

(71)

–

2,260

191,306

108,796

114,163

222,959

(33,568)

189,391

223,530

2018

234,929

(275)

234,654

45,576

(38,143)

(17,000)

(143)

(1,985)

–

222,959

The carrying amounts of investments at amortised cost are denominated in US dollar (2018: US dollar).

170

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

28.  INVESTMENTS AT AMORTISED COST (CONTINUED)

The  credit  quality  of  investments  at  amortised  cost  by  reference  to  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s  credit  ratings  is  as 
follows:

US$’000

AAA

AA

A

BBB

Non-ranking

2019

–

799

75,227

107,278

8,002

191,306

2018

1,982

6,240

82,621

71,717

60,399

222,959

The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is the carrying amount of investments at amortised cost.

29.  OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS

US$’000

Deposit for container purchase

Deposit for container purchase with a fellow subsidiary

Other deposit

Others

30.  INVENTORIES

US$’000

Bunker

Consumable stores

2019

6,521

18,997

8,713

15,140

49,371

2019

103,543

9,942

113,485

2018

83,938

51,064

9,590

10,483

155,075

2018

106,835

12,875

119,710

171171

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

31.  DEBTORS AND PREPAYMENTS

US$’000

Trade receivables

Less: Provision for impairment

Trade receivables – net

Other debtors

Other prepayments

Utility and other deposits

2019

396,007

(34,837)

361,170

134,034

146,037

14,881

656,122

2018

379,067

(29,525)

349,542

122,299

148,493

13,895

634,229

The  credit  quality  of  trade  receivables  net  of  provision  for  impairment,  by  reference  to  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s 
credit ratings (if available) or to historical information about counterparty default rates is as follows:

US$’000

Counterparties with external credit rating

A

BBB

BB

Counterparties without external credit rating

Group 1

Group 2

Group 3

Notes:

2019

2018

24,427

7,317

4,785

36,529

25,991

294,779

3,871

324,641

361,170

18,310

6,598

4,967

29,875

17,221

301,234

1,212

319,667

349,542

Group 1 – new customers (less than 6 months).

Group 2 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with no defaults in the past.

Group 3 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with some defaults in the past.

Trade  receivables  are  normally  due  for  payment  on  presentation  of  invoices  or  granted  with  an  approved  credit  period 
ranging mainly from 10 to 30 days. Debtors with overdue balances are requested to settle all outstanding balances before any 
further credit is granted.

172

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

31.  DEBTORS AND PREPAYMENTS (CONTINUED)

The ageing analysis of the Group’s trade receivables, net of provision for impairment, prepared in accordance with the dates 
of invoices, is as follows:

US$’000

Below one month

Two to three months

Four to six months

Over six months

2019

273,168

75,440

8,224

4,338

361,170

2018

269,210

67,182

7,770

5,380

349,542

There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a large number of internationally 
dispersed customers. Other debtors are fully performing.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar

Canadian dollar

Euro

Japanese yen

Hong Kong dollar

Renminbi

Pound sterling

Australian dollar

Other currencies

Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year

Adjustment on adoption of HKFRS 9

Restated balance at beginning of year

Provision

Written off

Reversal

Classified as assets held for sale (note 16)

Balance at end of year

2019

105,477

10,523

64,025

25,429

9,071

43,811

11,043

25,890

65,901

2018

113,941

13,218

57,088

18,377

7,336

42,681

12,726

20,609

63,566

361,170

349,542

2019

29,525

–

29,525

11,869

(1,721)

(4,836)

–

34,837

2018

16,061

12,897

28,958

16,742

(10,576)

(5,390)

(209)

29,525

The provision for impairment has been included in “business and administrative expenses” in the consolidated profit and loss 
account.

To  measure  the  expected  credit  losses  which  are  included  in  the  balance  of  provision  for  impairment  of  trade  receivables, 
trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and due dates of invoices.

173173

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

32.  AMOUNTS DUE FROM JOINT VENTURES

The amounts receivable are unsecured, interest free and have no specific repayment terms.

33.  AMOUNTS DUE FROM FELLOW SUBSIDIARIES

The amounts receivable are unsecured, interest free and have no specific repayment terms, and are mainly non-trade nature.

34.  AMOUNTS DUE FROM RELATED COMPANIES

The amounts receivable are unsecured, interest free and have no specific repayment terms, and are mainly non-trade nature.

35.  PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS

US$’000

Listed equity securities

Hong Kong

Overseas

Market value of listed equity securities

Unit trust

Listed debt securities

Hong Kong

Overseas

2019

2018

29,627

8,046

37,673

–

73,970

41,280

152,923

40,500

9,089

49,589

5,720

209,837

113,111

378,257

The carrying amounts of the Group’s portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss are mainly denominated in US 
dollar (2018: US dollar).

The credit quality of listed debt securities by reference to Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

A

BBB

BB

Non-ranking

2019

29,090

51,347

6,970

27,843

115,250

2018

69,328

127,819

8,800

117,001

322,948

The fair values of all listed equity securities and debt securities are based on their current bid prices in active markets.

174

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

36.  CASH AND BANK BALANCES

US$’000

Short-term bank deposits

– Maturing within three months from the date of placement

Cash at bank and in hand

Short-term bank deposits

2019

2018

1,947,092

325,478

1,202,356

382,109

2,272,570

1,584,465

– Maturing more than three months from the date of placement

1,183,000

–

3,455,570

1,584,465

The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash and bank balances are mainly denominated in US dollar (2018: US dollar).

The credit quality of cash at bank and in hand and short-term bank deposits by reference to Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and/
or Fitch’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

AA

A

BBB

BB

B

Others

37.  SHARE CAPITAL

US$’000

Authorised:

900,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.10 each

65,000,000 convertible redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each

50,000,000 redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each

Issued and fully paid:

At 31st December 2018 and 2019

2019

180,244

1,170,805

2,082,708

540

5,583

15,690

2018

538,611

861,272

170,966

2,849

4,639

6,128

3,455,570

1,584,465

2019

2018

90,000

65,000

50,000

90,000

65,000

50,000

205,000

205,000

Number of shares
(thousands)

Ordinary shares
US$’000

625,793

62,579

175175

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

38.  RESERVES

US$’000

Balance at 1st January 2018
Total comprehensive income/(loss)  

for the year

Balance at 31st December 2018

Balance at 1st January 2019

Adjustment on adoption of HKFRS 16  

(note 2.1(b))

Restated balance at 1st January 2019
Total comprehensive income/(loss)  

for the year

Transactions with owners

Employee share-based compensation
2018 final dividend
2019 interim dividend
2019 special dividend

Share
premium

172,457

–

172,457

172,457

–

172,457

–

–
–
–
–

Balance at 31st December 2019

172,457

39.  SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2,651
–
–
–

2,651

Employee
share-based
compensation
reserve

Contributed
surplus

Capital
redemption
reserve

Investments
revaluation
reserve

Foreign
exchange
translation
reserve

88,547

4,696

43,344

43,040

Retained
profit

4,254,678

Total

4,606,762

–

88,547

88,547

–

88,547

–

–
–
–
–

–

(20,931)

(16,339)

103,059

65,789

4,696

4,696

–

4,696

–

–
–
–
–

22,413

22,413

26,701

4,357,737

4,672,551

26,701

4,357,737

4,672,551

–

–

(46,306)

(46,306)

22,413

26,701

4,311,431

4,626,245

(7,925)

(3,724)

1,338,709

1,327,060

–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–

–
(48,181)
(41,678)
(1,001,269)

2,651
(48,181)
(41,678)
(1,001,269)

88,547

4,696

14,488

22,977

4,559,012

4,864,828

An  intermediate  holding  company  of  the  Group,  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  operates  share  option  schemes  whereby 
options  are  granted  to  eligible  employees  of  the  Group  to  subscribe  for  its  shares.  No  outstanding  options  were  vested  and 
exercisable as at 31st December 2019. COSCO SHIPPING Holdings has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or 
settle the options in cash.

At a special general meeting of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings held on 30th May 2019, the shareholders of COSCO SHIPPING 
Holdings approved the adoption of a share option scheme (the “2019 Share Option Scheme”). No consideration was paid by 
the grantees for the acceptance of share options.

Under  the  2019  Share  Option  Scheme,  the  exercises  of  the  options  of  three  batches  are  subject  to  two-year,  three-year  and 
four-year  vesting  periods  respectively  during  which  a  participant  is  not  allowed  to  exercise  any  option  granted.  After  the 
expiration of each vesting period, the participant may exercise the options in three batches in the one year, one year and three 
years after the expiration of each vesting period respectively. Within the exercise period of the share options, and subject to 
the fulfilment of the vesting conditions and the exercise arrangement of the share options, grant of each share option entitles 
the  grantee  to  subscribe  for  one  A  share  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  at  relevant  exercise  price  in  three  batches  evenly 
after the expiry of each vesting period.

176

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

39.  SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (CONTINUED)

Movements  of  the  share  options  granted  by  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  to  the  employees  of  the  Group  during  the  year 
ended 31st December 2019 are set out below:

Number of share options

Outstanding
as at 1st
January
2019

Granted
during the
period

Exercised
during the
period

Cancelled
during the
period

Forfeited
during the
period

Outstanding
as at 31st
December
2019

–

44,331,000

–

–

–

44,331,000

Exercisable
period

Note

Exercise
price

RMB4.10

Date of grant

3rd June 2019

Note:

The share options were granted on 3rd June 2019 under the 2019 Share Option Scheme at an exercise price of RMB4.10. According to the provisions 

of the 2019 Share Option Scheme, share options under each grant have a validity period of ten years from 30th May 2019 and cannot be exercised 
evenly during the two-year, three-year and four-year period commencing from the date of grant (the “Restriction Period”). Besides, subject to the 
fulfilment of the relevant vesting conditions, share options will be vested in three batches evenly over a period of one year, one year and three years 

after the expiry of each Restriction Period, i.e. 33%, 33% and 34%.

40.  BORROWINGS

US$’000

Non-current

Bank loans

– Secured

– Unsecured

Finance lease obligations

Current

Bank loans

– Secured

– Unsecured

Finance lease obligations

2019

2018

921,503

111,638

–

1,240,877

226,976

2,227,981

1,033,141

3,695,834

355,525

39,471

–

394,996

242,126

48,998

210,798

501,922

Total borrowings

1,428,137

4,197,756

177177

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

40.  BORROWINGS (CONTINUED)
The maturity of borrowings is as follows:

US$’000

As at 31st December 2019

2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025 onwards

As at 31st December 2018

2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024 onwards

Bank
loans

394,996
227,599
240,735
167,550
86,969
310,288

1,428,137

291,124
450,282
315,224
264,814
154,760
282,773

1,758,977

Borrowings are secured by property, plant and equipment of the Group (note 17(a)).

The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows:

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations

The carrying amounts and fair values of the non-current borrowings are as follows:

Finance leases

Present
value

Minimum
payments

–
–
–
–
–
–

–

210,798
174,089
467,224
224,876
307,390
1,054,402

2,438,779

–
–
–
–
–
–

–

286,499
242,211
524,641
270,008
342,201
1,121,710

2,787,270

2019

2.9%
–

2018

3.7%
3.8%

US$’000

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations

Carrying amounts

Fair values

2019

1,033,141
–

2018

1,467,853
2,227,981

2019

1,033,141
–

2018

1,467,003
2,193,394

1,033,141

3,695,834

1,033,141

3,660,397

The fair values are based on cash flows discounted using rates based on the borrowing rates ranging from 2.5% to 3.2% (2018: 
2.4% to 5.4%).

The carrying amounts of short-term borrowings approximate their fair values.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in US dollar (2018: US dollar).

The  fixed  interest  rate  borrowings  of  the  Group  as  at  31st  December  2019  amounted  to  US$18.5  million  (2018:  US$871.8 
million). The remaining borrowings of US$1,409.6 million (2018: US$3,326.0 million) were subject to floating interest rates.

178

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41.  LEASE LIABILITIES

US$’000

Non-current

Current

The maturity of lease liabilities is as follows:

US$’000

As at 31st December 2019

2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025 onwards

42.  CREDITORS AND ACCRUALS

US$’000

Trade payables

Other creditors

Accrued expenses

Contract liabilities and deferred revenue*

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2019

2,309,083

253,869

2,562,952

Minimum

payments

320,380
583,607
304,477
377,247
300,018
943,577

Present

value

253,869
527,785
260,232
344,150
275,066
901,850

2,562,952

2,829,306

2019

202,306

168,643

612,662

50,966

1,034,577

2018

193,382

162,251

443,200

39,352

838,185

* 

As permitted by HKFRS 15, the transaction price for contracts with an original expected duration of one year or less is exempt from disclosure 

due to practical expedient.

The ageing analysis of the Group’s trade payables, prepared in accordance with the dates of invoices, is as follows:

US$’000

Below one month

Two to three months

Four to six months

Over six months

2019

143,714

49,498

2,707

6,387

202,306

2018

109,641

75,285

2,524

5,932

193,382

179179

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

42.  CREDITORS AND ACCRUALS (CONTINUED)

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade payables are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar

Canadian dollar

Euro

Japanese yen

Hong Kong dollar

Renminbi

Other currencies

2019

89,122

9,265

19,499

20,480

15,896

17,060

30,984

2018

72,072

7,240

16,333

18,977

16,096

28,072

34,592

202,306

193,382

43.  AMOUNTS DUE TO JOINT VENTURES

The amounts payable are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.

44.  AMOUNTS DUE TO FELLOW SUBSIDIARIES

The  amounts  payable  are  unsecured,  interest  free  and  repayable  on  demand.  The  amounts  payable  are  mainly  trade  nature 
and are mostly aged below three months.

45.  AMOUNTS DUE TO RELATED COMPANIES

The  amounts  payable  are  unsecured,  interest  free  and  repayable  on  demand.  The  amounts  payable  are  mainly  trade  nature 
and are mostly aged below one month.

46.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

US$’000

Liability

Current liability

2019

2018

Bunker price derivative contracts

–

5,565

47.  COMMITMENTS

(a)  Capital commitments – Property, plant and equipment

US$’000

Contracted but not provided for

2019

1,699

2018

91,618

180

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

47.  COMMITMENTS (CONTINUED)

(b)  Capital commitments – Investment in an associated company

US$’000

Contracted but not provided for

(c)  Lease commitments

2019

4,937

2018

–

The  future  aggregate  minimum  lease  rental  expenses  under  non-cancellable  short-term  leases  are  payable  in  the 
following year:

US$’000

At 31st December 2019

2020

Vessels and 

equipment

Land and 

buildings

Total

39,070

1,679

40,749

As previously disclosed in the 2018 Annual Report and under previous lease standard, future aggregate minimum lease 
rental expenses under non-cancellable operating leases are payable in the following years:

US$’000

At 31st December 2018

2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024 onwards

Vessels and 

equipment

Land and 

buildings

134,796
67,996
46,789
19,273
4,950
3,702

277,506

38,710
28,818
18,576
14,096
13,226
28,682

142,108

Total

173,506
96,814
65,365
33,369
18,176
32,384

419,614

181181

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

47.  COMMITMENTS (CONTINUED)

(d)  Operating lease rental receivable

The  future  aggregate  minimum  lease  rental  income  under  non-cancellable  operating  leases  are  receivable  in  the 
following years:

Land and

buildings

24,946

24,582

22,236

20,590

17,354

52,842

162,550

23,201

21,999

20,793

18,326

16,487

45,779

146,585

US$’000

At 31st December 2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

2024

2025 onwards

At 31st December 2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

2024 onwards

182

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

48.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT

(a)  The reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities is as follows:

US$’000

At 1st January 2018
Cash flow

Bank
loans

Finance
lease
obligations

2,097,422

2,456,761

– Inflow from financing activities*
– Outflow from financing activities*

213,692
(506,679)

262,228
(267,148)

Non-cash changes

– Classified as liabilities directly associated 

with assets held for sale (note 16)

– Inception of finance leases (note 48(c))
– Finance costs

(48,411)
–
2,953

(59,189)
31,720
14,407

At 31st December 2018

1,758,977

2,438,779

Lease
liabilities

–

–
–

–
–
–

–

Total

4,554,183

475,920
(773,827)

(107,600)
31,720
17,360

4,197,756

–

(2,438,779)

2,675,461

236,682

Adjustment on adoption of HKFRS 16  

(note 2.1(b))

Restated balance at 1st January 2019
Cash flow

– Inflow from financing activities*
– Outflow from financing activities*

Non-cash changes

– Inception of leases (note 48(c))
– Termination of leases
– Currency translation adjustments
– Finance costs
– Other changes

1,758,977

301,310
(684,659)

–
–
–
4,098
48,411

At 31st December 2019

1,428,137

–

–
–

–
–
–
–
–

–

2,675,461

4,434,438

99,145
(352,109)

400,455
(1,036,768)

60,218
(2,214)
(1,368)
15,571
68,248

60,218
(2,214)
(1,368)
19,669
116,659

2,562,952

3,991,089

* 

Included cash inflow and outflow from financing activities for continuing and discontinued operations.

183183

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

48.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

(b)  Disposal of subsidiaries

US$’000

Net assets disposed

Property, plant and equipment

Right-of-use assets

Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income

Inventories

Debtors and prepayments

Amount due from an intermediate holding company

Amount due from a fellow subsidiary

Portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss

Restricted bank balances

Cash and bank balances

Lease liabilities

Other non-current liabilities

Creditors and accruals

Amounts due to fellow subsidiaries

Current taxation

Release of reserve upon disposal

Gain on disposal after taxation

Taxation on disposal gain

Cash consideration, net

Net cash inflow/(outflow) arising on disposal:

Cash consideration, net

Less: Cash and bank balances disposed

Net cash inflow/(outflow)

(c)  Major non-cash transactions

2019

2018

413,249

819,133

–

6,050

32,299

17,233

6,815

752

–

58,884

(838,515)

(600)

(27,898)

(204)

–

487,198

–

1,153,634

127,300

1,768,132

1,768,132

(58,884)

1,709,248

83

–

23

–

1,431

–

–

–

1,062

14,363

–

–

(822)

(6,898)

(280)

8,962

(116)

3,663

–

12,509

12,509

(14,363)

(1,854)

During the year, major non-cash transactions included the inception of leases (2018: finance leases) of US$60.2 million 
(2018:  US$31.7  million)  and  non-cash  dividend  received  from  investments  at  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive 
income of US$nil (2018: US$14.7 million).

184

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

48.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 

(d)  Analysis of cash and cash equivalents

US$’000

2019

2018

Bank balances and deposits maturing within three months from  

the date of placement

2,272,570

1,584,465

(e)  Cash outflow for leases

The total cash outflow for leases for the year ended 31st December 2019 was US$702.3 million.

49.  SIGNIFICANT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

The Company is controlled by COSCO SHIPPING, the ultimate parent company and a state-owned enterprise established in 
the PRC since 13th July 2018.

COSCO  SHIPPING  itself  is  controlled  by  the  PRC  government,  which  also  owns  a  significant  portion  of  the  productive 
assets  in  the  PRC.  Government-related  entities  and  their  subsidiaries  directly  or  indirectly  controlled,  jointly  controlled  or 
significantly  influenced  by  the  PRC  government  are  defined  as  related  parties  of  the  Group.  On  that  basis,  related  parties 
include  COSCO  SHIPPING  and  its  subsidiaries  (other  than  the  Group)  (collectively  referred  to  as  “COSCO  SHIPPING 
Group”) and related entities of COSCO SHIPPING (including joint ventures and associated companies), other government-
related entities and their subsidiaries, entities in which the Company is able to exercise joint control or significant influence, 
and key management personnel of the Company and COSCO SHIPPING as well as their close family members.

For  the  purpose  of  related  party  transaction  disclosures,  the  Directors  believe  that  it  is  meaningful  to  disclose  the  related 
party  transactions  with  COSCO  SHIPPING  Group  companies  and  related  entities  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  (including  joint 
ventures  and  associated  companies)  for  the  interests  of  financial  statements  users,  although  certain  of  those  transactions 
which are individually or collectively not significant are exempted from disclosure. The Directors believe that the information 
of related party transactions has been adequately disclosed in the consolidated financial statements.

In  addition  to  the  related  party  information  and  transactions  disclosed  elsewhere  in  the  consolidated  financial  statements, 
the following is a summary of significant related party transactions conducted in the ordinary course of business between the 
Group and its related parties during the year.

185185

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

49.  SIGNIFICANT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)

(a)  Transactions with COSCO SHIPPING Group and related entities of COSCO SHIPPING 

(including joint ventures and associated companies)

US$’000

Income

Container transport income
Freight forwarding income
Terminal handling and storage income
Rental income
Vessels
Containers
IT service income
Interest income

Expenses

Cargo transportation costs
Freight forwarding expenses
Terminal charges (note ii)
Expenses relating to short-term leases and 
leases with low-value assets (2018:  
operating lease rental expenses)
Vessels
Containers
Land and buildings

Slot hire expenses
Purchase of bunker (note iii)
Crew expenses

Others

Purchase of containers

(b)  Transactions with joint ventures of the Group

US$’000

Income

Container transport income

Expenses

Cargo transportation costs

2019

88,179
2,186
39,633

7,426
8,157
9,177
26

111,885
8,640
107,097

48,676
4,496
–
89,590
230,280
1,147

2018

55,419
471
12,139

–
–
593
170

25,110
2,695
54,558

10,966
1,473
176
20,999
133,078
569

57,666

93,860

2019

752

7,980

2018

933

5,835

186

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

49.  SIGNIFICANT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)

(c)  Transactions with other related parties

US$’000

Income

Container transport income

Expenses

Cargo transportation costs
Freight forwarding expenses
Terminal charges
Expenses relating to short-term leases and 

leases with low-value assets
Vessels

Slot hire expenses
Purchase of bunker

Others

Purchase of containers

Notes:

2019

7,856

17,356
85
37,598

1,134
391
465

6,699

2018

5,339

2,986
15
–

–
279
–

114,683

(i) 

These transactions were conducted either (i) based on terms as governed by the master agreements and subsisting agreements entered 

into between the Group and COSCO SHIPPING Group or (ii) based on terms as set out in the underlying agreements, statutory rates or 

market prices or actual costs incurred, or as mutually agreed between the Group and the parties in concern.

(ii)  Terminal charges of US$72.2 million were transacted with the associated companies of COSCO SHIPPING during the year ended 31st 

December 2019.

(iii)  Bunker of US$225.1 million was purchased from a joint venture of COSCO SHIPPING during the year ended 31st December 2019.

187187

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

50.  COMPANY BALANCE SHEET

As at 31st December 2019

US$’000

ASSETS

Non-current asset

Investments in subsidiaries

Current assets

Prepayments

Amounts due from subsidiaries

Restricted bank balances

Cash and bank balances

Total assets

EQUITY

Equity holders

Share capital

Reserves (note)

Total equity

LIABILITIES

Non-current liability

Amount due to a subsidiary

Current liabilities

Creditors and accruals

Amounts due to subsidiaries

Dividend payable

Total liabilities

Total equity and liabilities

188

2019

2018

172,138

169,487

53

3,354,523

349

1,634

149

2,855,975

335

9,297

3,356,559

2,865,756

3,528,697

3,035,243

62,579

1,060,506

62,579

996,630

1,123,085

1,059,209

–

1,589,229

1,968

1,402,375

1,001,269

2,405,612

10,288

376,517

–

386,805

2,405,612

1,976,034

3,528,697

3,035,243

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

50.  COMPANY BALANCE SHEET (CONTINUED)

Note:

Movements of reserves

US$’000

Balance at 1st January 2018
Total comprehensive loss for the year

Balance at 31st December 2018
Total comprehensive income for the year
Transactions with owners

Employee share-based compensation
2018 final dividend
2019 interim dividend
2019 special dividend

Share
premium

172,457
–

172,457
–

–
–
–
–

Balance at 31st December 2019

172,457

Employee
share-based
compensation
reserve

Contributed
surplus

Capital
redemption
reserve

88,547
–

88,547
–

–
–
–
–

4,696
–

4,696
–

–
–
–
–

Retained
profit

750,018
(19,088)

730,930
1,152,353

–
(48,181)
(41,678)
(1,001,269)

Total

1,015,718
(19,088)

996,630
1,152,353

2,651
(48,181)
(41,678)
(1,001,269)

88,547

4,696

792,155

1,060,506

–
–

–
–

2,651
–
–
–

2,651

Under  the  Companies  Act  of  Bermuda  and  the  Bye-laws  of  the  Company,  the  contributed  surplus  is  also  distributable.  Accordingly,  total 

distributable reserves of the Company amount to US$880.7 million as at 31st December 2019 (2018: US$819.5 million).

51.  EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO YEAR END

On  10th  March  2020,  the  Group  entered  into  contracts  to  construct  five  units  of  23,000  TEU  container  vessels  at  a 
consideration of US$778.4 million which are expected to deliver in year 2023.

After the outbreak of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (“COVID-19 outbreak”) in early 2020, a series of precautionary and control 
measures  have  been  and  continued  to  be  implemented  across  the  world  and  have  affected  the  business  and  economic 
activities  to  some  extent.  With  the  increasing  market  uncertainty  regarding  the  impact  of  COVID-19  outbreak,  the  Group 
will  pay  close  attention  to  the  development  of  the  COVID-19  outbreak  and  evaluate  the  impact  on  its  future  financial 
position and operating results. As at the date on which this set of consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue, 
the  Group  was  not  aware  of  any  material  adverse  effects  on  the  2019  consolidated  financial  statements  as  a  result  of  the 
COVID-19 outbreak.

52.  APPROVAL OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 20th March 2020.

189189

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures

as at 31st December 2019

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures

as at 31st December 2019

Name of Company

Subsidiaries

Cargo System Warehouse and 

Transport Ltd.

Consolidated Leasing &  

Terminals, Inc.

Containers No. 1 Inc.

Containers No. 2 Inc.

Containers No. 3 Inc.

Containers No. 5 Inc.

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

100

100

100

100

100

100

3,000 ordinary shares
HK$300,000

Investment holding and 
container transport

Hong Kong, China

Hong Kong, China

1 common stock
US$100

Investment holding, equipment 
owning and leasing

USA

USA

10,000 ordinary shares
US$100,000

10,000 ordinary shares
US$100,000

10,000 ordinary shares
US$100,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Equipment owning and leasing Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Equipment owning and leasing Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Equipment leasing

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Equipment leasing

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Dongguan Orient Container Co. Ltd.

100

Registered capital
HK$29,000,000

Container depot and 
warehousing

China *

China

Far Gain Investment Ltd.

Glory Top Investment Ltd.

100

100

Hai Dong Transportation Co. Ltd.

100

Kenwake Limited

Laronda Company Ltd.

100
100

100

Maritime Delivery Services Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1370A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1371A Shipping Inc.

100

10,000 ordinary shares
HK$10,000

10,000 ordinary shares
HK$10,000

100,000 ordinary shares
HK$100,000

1,600,000 ordinary shares
520,000 5% cumulative
preference shares
￡2,120,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

1,000 common stock
US$10,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Investment holding

Hong Kong, China

Hong Kong, China

Portfolio investment

Hong Kong, China

Hong Kong, China

Container transport

Hong Kong, China

Hong Kong, China

Investment holding

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

Portfolio investment

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Trucking service

USA

USA

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

190

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2019

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Newcontainer 1420 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1421 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1484 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1564A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1565A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1584A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1585A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1667A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1668A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2002 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2004 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2005 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2007 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2009 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2010 Shipping Inc.

100

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

191191

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2019

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Newcontainer 2011 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2172 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2173 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 4090 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 5 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 6 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 9 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 10 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 15 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 51 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 52 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 67 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 69 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 73 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Liberia †

Worldwide

Ship owning

Liberia †

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

192

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2019

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Newcontainer No. 75 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 81 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 82 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 83 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 85 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 86 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 87 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 88 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 89 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 90 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 93 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 95 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 96 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 97 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

193193

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2019

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Newcontainer No. 98 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 99 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 100 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 101 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 102 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 103 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 106 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 107 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Investment holding

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

OLL Logistics (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

100

10,000 ordinary shares
RM10,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Malaysia

Malaysia

OOCL (Agencies) Holdings Inc.

100

OOCL (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

OOCL (Assets) Holdings Inc.

100

100

OOCL (Assets USA) Holdings Inc.

100

OOCL (Australia) Pty Ltd.

OOCL BENELUX

100

100

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

2 ordinary shares
HK$2

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

50,000 ordinary shares
US$50,000

200,000 ordinary shares
A$200,000

226,271 ordinary shares
€609,799

Investment holding

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Transportation

Hong Kong, China

Asia Pacific

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Investment holding

Liberia †

USA

Liner agency

Australia

Australia

Liner agency

Belgium

Belgium

194

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

OOCL (Cambodia) Ltd.

OOCL (Canada) Inc.

100

100

OOCL (China) Investment Ltd.

100

OOCL (Corporate Services) Limited

100

OOCL (Denmark) A/S

OOCL (Europe) Limited

OOCL (Finland) Ltd. Oy

OOCL (India) Private Limited

100

100

100

100

OOCL (Infotech) Holdings Ltd.

100

OOCL (Italy) S.r.l.

OOCL (Korea) Ltd.

OOCL (Liners) Holdings Ltd.

100

100

100

OOCL (Logistics) Holdings Ltd.

100

OOCL (Mexico), S.A. de C.V.

OOCL (New Zealand) Ltd.

OOCL Pakistan (Private) Ltd.

100

100

100

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2019

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

50,000 ordinary shares
Riel200,000,000

10,000 common stock
C$91,000

2 ordinary shares
HK$2

2 ordinary shares
HK$2

1,000 ordinary shares
DKK500,000

5,000,000 ordinary shares
￡5,000,000

150 ordinary shares
€2,522.82

1,000 equity shares
Rupees100,000

2 ordinary shares
US$2

1 quota
€10,000

16,000 common stock
Won160,000,000

2 ordinary shares
HK$2

10,000 ordinary shares
US$10,000

600,000 ordinary shares
Peso600,000

100 ordinary shares
NZD1,000

1,350,000 ordinary shares 
PKR13,500,000

Liner agency

Cambodia

Cambodia

Liner agency

Canada

Canada

Investment holding

Hong Kong, China

China

Provision of corporate services Hong Kong, China

Hong Kong, China

Liner agency

Denmark

Northern Europe

Container transport,  
investment holding and  
liner territorial office

United Kingdom

Worldwide

Liner agency

Finland

Finland

Liner agency

India

India

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

Liner agency

Italy

Korea

Italy

Korea

Investment holding

Hong Kong, China

Hong Kong, China

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

Mexico

Mexico

Liner agency

New Zealand

New Zealand

Liner agency

Pakistan

Pakistan

195195

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2019

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

OOCL (Philippines) Inc.

OOCL (Poland) Ltd sp. z o.o.

OOCL (Portugal), Lda

OOCL (Russia) Ltd.

OOCL (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

OOCL (Sweden) AB

100

100

100

100

100

100

OOCL (Terminals) Investment Ltd.

100

OOCL (USA) Inc.

OOCL (Vietnam) Co. Ltd.

OOCL China Domestics Ltd.

OOCL GEMİ ACENTELİĞİ 

HİZMETLERİ VE TİCARET  
ANONİM ŞİRKETİ

OOCL LLC

OOCL Logistics Limited

100

100

100

100

100

100

OOCL Logistics (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

100

55,000 common stock
Peso5,500,000

1,000 ordinary shares
PLN50,000

2 quotas
€25,000

1 participatory share
Rub10,000

100,000 ordinary shares
S$100,000

100,000 ordinary shares
SEK100,000

500 ordinary shares
US$500

1,030 common stock
US$1,030

Legal capital
US$500,000

Liner agency

Philippines

Philippines

Liner agency

Poland

Poland

Liner agency

Portugal

Portugal

Liner agency

Russia

Russia

Liner agency

Singapore

Singapore

Liner agency

Sweden

Sweden

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

USA

USA

Liner agency

Vietnam

Vietnam

Registered capital
RMB21,250,000

Transportation and 
freight agency

China ±

100,000 shares
TL.100,000

Liner agency

Turkey

China

Turkey

Capital of
US$500,000

Investment holding and 
equipment owning

USA

USA

10,000 ordinary shares
US$10,000

200 ordinary shares
US$20,000

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Hong Kong, China

Investment holding, 
management of international 
transportation and logistics

Bermuda

Worldwide

OOCL Logistics (Australia)  

100

Pty. Limited

200,000 ordinary shares
A$200,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Australia

Australia

OOCL Logistics (Cambodia) Ltd.

100

1,250 ordinary shares
Riel5,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Cambodia

Cambodia

OOCL Logistics (Canada) Ltd.

100

1,000 common stock
C$1,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Canada

Canada

196

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2019

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

OOCL Logistics (China) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (Europe) Ltd.

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

100

100

Registered capital
US$4,840,000

2 ordinary shares
￡2

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

China *

China

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding territorial office

United Kingdom

Europe

OOCL Logistics (Hong Kong) Ltd.

100

50,000 ordinary shares
HK$500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Hong Kong, China

Hong Kong, China

OOCL Logistics (India) Private 

100

Limited

35,000 equity shares
Rupee3,500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

OOCL Logistics (Japan) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (Korea) Ltd.

100

100

6,200 ordinary shares
Yen10,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

280,000 common stock
Won2,800,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Korea

OOCL Logistics Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

100

500,000 ordinary shares
Peso500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Mexico

India

Japan

India

Japan

Korea

Mexico

OOCL Logistics Pakistan (Pvt) 

100

Limited

1,300,000 ordinary shares 
PKR13,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Pakistan

Pakistan

OOCL Logistics (Russia) Limited

100

OOCL Logistics (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (USA) Inc.

100

OOCL Logistics Line Limited

100

OOCL Logistics Warehousing and 

100

Transportation (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.

OOCL Logistics Warehousing and 
Transportation (Tianjin) Co. Ltd.

OOCL Transport & Logistics 

Holdings Ltd. #

100

100

OOCL Warehousing (Shanghai) 

100

Limited

OOIL (Investments) Inc. #

Orient Overseas Associates

100

100

1 share
Rub10,000

2 ordinary shares
S$2

100 common stock
US$200

2 ordinary shares
HK$2

Registered capital
US$1,000,000

Registered capital
US$4,700,000

169,477,152 ordinary shares
US$169,477,152

Registered capital
US$10,000,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Russia

Russia

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Logistics, cargo consolidation, 
forwarding and investment 
holding

Transportation and freight 
forwarding

Singapore

Singapore

USA

Worldwide

Hong Kong, China

Worldwide

Warehousing and logistics 
services

China *

Warehousing, transportation 
and logistics services

China *

China

China

Investment holding

Bermuda

Worldwide

Warehousing and depot services China *

China

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Limited partnership

Property owning

USA

USA

197197

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2019

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Orient Overseas Building Corp.

100

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(China) Co. Ltd.

10 common stock
US$150,000

Registered capital
US$3,400,000

Property owning

USA

Liner agency

China *

USA

China

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(Europe) Ltd.

66,000,000 ordinary shares
￡66,000,000

Investment holding

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

500,000 ordinary shares
RM500,000

Liner agency

Malaysia

Malaysia

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(Spain), S.L.

3,100 ordinary shares
€3,100

Liner agency

Spain

Spain

Orient Overseas Container Line  

100

(UK) Ltd.

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Ship management and vessel 
operator

Cayman Islands

Worldwide

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Container transport

Hong Kong, China

Worldwide

Provision of financing to Group Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Hong Kong, China

Worldwide

Investment holding

USA

USA

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Orient Overseas Container Line Inc.

100

Orient Overseas Container Line Ltd.

100

The Speed Limited

Union Faith (H.K.) Limited

Wall Street Plaza, Inc.

100

100

100
100
100

100

100

100

Wealth Capital Corporation

100

500 ordinary shares 
US$25,000,000

10,000 ordinary shares
HK$1,000,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

1 ordinary share
HK$1

40 class A common stock
160 class B common stock
20,000 series A  
non-cumulative  
non-voting preferred stock
18,000 series B  
non-cumulative  
non-voting preferred stock
19,500 series C  
non-cumulative  
non-voting preferred stock
19,000 series D  
non-cumulative  
non-voting preferred stock
US$76,500,200

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

198

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2019

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Associated companies

Ningbo Yuan Dong Terminal Ltd.

Tianjin Port Alliance International 
Container Terminal Co. Ltd.

20

20

Zhongjing Supply Chain Technology 

25.9

Co., Ltd.

Joint ventures

OOCL (UAE) LLC

Tan Cang - COSCO - OOCL 
Logistics Company Limited

Qingdao Orient International  

Container Storage &  
Transportation Co. Ltd.

49

30

55

Registered capital
RMB2,500,000,000

Registered capital
US$160,000,000

Registered capital
RMB76,500,000

300 ordinary shares 
AED300,000

Legal capital 
US$1,000,000

Registered capital 
RMB69,900,000

Terminal operating

China§

Terminal operating

China§

Supply chain management, 
technology and consulting

China§

China

China

China

Liner agency

Dubai

Dubai

Container depot

Vietnam

Vietnam

Container depot

China §

China

#  Direct subsidiaries of the Company.
†  Companies incorporated in Liberia but redomiciled to the Marshall Islands.
*  Wholly foreign-owned enterprise.
§  Sino-foreign equity joint venture enterprise.
±  Domestic joint venture enterprise.

199199

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
Fleet and Container Information

Fleet and Container Information

Fleet

The following table sets out the Group’s vessels as at 31st December 2019.

TEU 
CAPACITY

5,344
8,063
13,208
8,888
2,992
5,344
8,888
4,578
5,714
13,208
4,578
8,063
4,578
4,578
4,578
8,063
8,063
4,578
5,770
4,578
5,714
4,578
21,413
8,063
5,770
8,063
8,063
21,413
8,063
 5,888 
8,063
4,583
13,208
4,578
13,208
4,578
 5,888 
13,208
13,208
8,888
21,413

OWNERSHIP

Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease

SERVICE IN 
WHICH USED

Intra-Asia
Trans-Atlantic
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe

DATE 
PLACED IN 
SERVICE

FLAG

1995
2006
2013
2011
1998
1995
2011
2010
2000
2013
2009
2006
2010
2010
2010
2010
2010
2009
1999
2009
2000
2010
2017
2010
1999
2007
2007
2017
2010
2006
2005
2006
2013
2009
2013
2008
2006
2013
2013
2015
2017

Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Panama
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Singapore
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China

VESSEL NAME

OOCL America
OOCL Asia
OOCL Bangkok
OOCL Beijing
OOCL Belgium
OOCL California
OOCL Canada
OOCL Charleston
OOCL Chicago
OOCL Chongqing
OOCL Dalian
OOCL Europe
OOCL Guangzhou
OOCL Jakarta
OOCL Le Havre
OOCL London
OOCL Luxembourg
OOCL Nagoya
OOCL New York
OOCL Norfolk
OOCL San Francisco
OOCL Savannah
OOCL Scandinavia
OOCL Seoul
OOCL Shanghai
OOCL Southampton
OOCL Tokyo
OOCL United Kingdom
OOCL Washington
OOCL Antwerp
OOCL Atlanta
OOCL Australia
OOCL Berlin
OOCL Brisbane
OOCL Brussels
OOCL Busan
OOCL Dubai
OOCL Egypt
OOCL France
OOCL Genoa
OOCL Germany

200

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VESSEL NAME

OOCL Hamburg
OOCL Ho Chi Minh City
OOCL Hong Kong
OOCL Houston
OOCL Indonesia
OOCL Italy
OOCL Japan
OOCL Kaohsiung
OOCL Kobe
OOCL Korea
OOCL Kuala Lumpur
OOCL Malaysia
OOCL Memphis
OOCL Miami
OOCL Montreal
OOCL New Zealand
OOCL Oakland
OOCL Panama
OOCL Poland
OOCL Rotterdam
OOCL Singapore
OOCL Taipei
OOCL Texas
OOCL Utah
OOCL Vancouver
OOCL Yokohama
OOCL Zhoushan
AS Camellia
Balbina
Box Express
Brussels
Buxcliff
Buxhansa
Cape Fortius
Cardiff Trader
Cimbria
COSCO Philippines
COSCO Vietnam
CSCL Atlantic Ocean
CSCL Globe
E.R. Los Angeles
Filia T
Green Horizon
GSL Keta
Lantau Arrow
Lydia

TEU 
CAPACITY

8,063
8,888
21,413
4,578
21,413
 5,888 
21,413
 5,888 
4,578
13,208
 5,888 
13,208
8,888
8,888
4,402
4,578
 5,888 
4,578
13,208
8,063
13,208
8,888
4,578
8,888
 5,888 
4,578
4,583
2,824
5,470
1,708
5,806
6,892
2,432
2,210
2,526
2,824
8,501
8,501
18,982
18,982
5,992
1,774
1,736
2,207
1,216
2,702

OWNERSHIP

Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Long Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease

SERVICE IN 
WHICH USED

Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Atlantic
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Atlantic
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Intra-Asia

Fleet and Container Information

DATE 
PLACED IN 
SERVICE

FLAG

2004
2015
2017
2007
2018
2007
2017
2006
2007
2014
2007
2013
2013
2013
2003
2009
2007
2008
2013
2004
2014
2015
2008
2015
2006
2007
2006
2006
2010
2016
2000
2001
1998
2017
2003
2002
2010
2011
2015
2014
2001
2019
2013
2003
2001
2009

Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Singapore
Hong Kong, China
Singapore
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Singapore
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Panama
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Panama
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Portugal
Portugal
Liberia
Portugal
Portugal
Liberia
Cyprus
Malta
Liberia
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Liberia
Malta
Panama
Bahamas
Marshall Islands
Portugal

201201

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fleet and Container Information

VESSEL NAME

Mount Gough
Navi Baltic
Nordtiger
Okee Alba
Olivia
OOCL Rauma
Performance
Rdo Concord
San Lorenzo
Santa Loukia
Seamaster
Shanghai Trader
Singapore
ST Blue
ST Green
Teng Yun He
Tzini
TOTAL 104 VESSELS

TEU 
CAPACITY

 1,756 
 1,421 
 1,756 
 1,740 
 1,714 
 1,421 
 6,402 
 6,969 
 1,708 
 1,704 
 1,756 
 5,047 
 3,338 
 2,535 
 2,535 
 1,702 
 1,756 
733,580

OWNERSHIP

Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease
Short Term Lease

SERVICE IN 
WHICH USED

Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Asia-Europe
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia

DATE 
PLACED IN 
SERVICE

FLAG

2016
2009
2014
2002
2013
2009
2002
2009
2014
2014
2013
2005
2004
2011
2011
2000
2013

Hong Kong, China
Portugal
Cyprus
Liberia
Portugal
Netherlands
Malta
Liberia
Cyprus
Malta
Malta
Malta
Liberia
Liberia
Liberia
China
Malta

Container Information

The Group owned and leased 686,482 units (1,170,978 TEU) of containers as of 31st December 2019.

202

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10-Year Financial Summary

10-Year Financial Summary

US$’000

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

Consolidated Profit and Loss Data

Revenue

Operating profit/(loss)

Finance costs

Profit/(loss) before taxation

Profit/(loss) for the year from 

continuing operations

Profit/(loss) for the year from 

discontinued operations

Profit/(loss) for the year

6,033,402

6,011,836

6,459,059

6,231,583

6,521,589

5,953,444

5,297,693

5,981,676

6,572,655

6,878,740

918,807

174,598

327,904

90,314

329,147

353,068

(138,227)

238,155

262,935

361,281

(29,091)

(26,179)

(32,877)

(41,019)

(54,000)

(63,642)

(79,393)

(97,418)

(143,191)

(151,599)

898,776

162,457

310,134

66,999

294,583

307,208

(199,667)

159,871

134,068

223,826

869,817

139,354

296,317

47,133

270,438

283,851

(219,221)

147,438

75,448

153,987

Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders

1,866,780

1,004,554

1,874,371

43,000

182,354

181,645

–

296,317

295,387

–

47,133

47,036

–

270,438

270,538

–

283,851

283,851

–

(9,782)

32,718

1,194,806

(219,221)

(219,221)

137,656

137,656

108,166

1,348,793

108,166

1,348,793

Per Ordinary Share

Earnings/(loss) (US cents)

from continuing operations

from discontinued operations

Dividends (US cents)

Weighted average number of ordinary shares  

137.8

160.5

283.80

22.1

6.9

7.00

47.2

–

11.84

7.5

–

1.88

43.2

–

10.90

45.4

–

11.45

(35.0)

–

–

23.6

(1.6)

2.14

12.1

5.2

7.70

24.6

190.9

193.35

in issue (‘000)

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

Consolidated Balance Sheet Data

Property, plant and equipment

3,860,367

4,205,194

4,664,773

5,320,251

5,608,929

6,020,744

6,076,673

6,251,457

5,880,057

3,162,424

Right-of-use assets

Liquid assets

Assets held for sale

Liabilities directly associated with  

assets classified as held for sale

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2,830,674

4,132,897

2,413,132

2,339,531

2,411,085

2,689,754

2,548,976

2,186,946

2,534,463

2,246,803

2,858,824

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

53,047

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

472,732

(141,048)

–

–

Other net current liabilities

(475,304)

(543,133)

(654,625)

(473,105)

(628,393)

(622,964)

(738,046)

(671,309)

(596,779)

(979,118)

Total assets

Long-term debt

Total long and short-term debt

Net debt/(liquid assets)
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

Other Financial Information

Depreciation

Capital expenditure

Consolidated Financial Ratios/Percentages

Debt to equity ratio

Net debt/(liquid assets) to equity ratio

Return on average ordinary  
shareholders’ equity (%)

Accounts payable as a % of revenue

Accounts receivable as a % of revenue

Net asset value per ordinary share (US$)

9,075,183

7,711,478

8,231,039

8,990,218

9,633,455

9,731,574

9,404,590

10,069,296

10,053,860

11,201,865

2,416,367

2,233,095

2,325,777

3,265,555

3,595,625

3,663,100

3,489,272

3,930,025

3,695,834

3,342,224

2,664,122

2,672,206

2,881,530

3,533,865

3,984,502

4,101,719

4,090,737

4,554,183

4,197,756

3,991,089

(1,468,775)

259,074

541,999

1,122,780

1,294,748

1,552,743

1,903,791

2,019,720

1,950,953

1,132,265

5,548,446

4,233,468

4,481,815

4,470,807

4,634,752

4,797,510

4,519,286

4,682,513

4,735,130

4,927,407

255,010

345,255

242,534

744,603

235,346

784,562

302,884

999,451

323,482

848,769

315,426

796,720

400,351

478,637

428,482

618,690

385,622

412,901

409,255

387,192

0.48

(0.26)

39.3

12.6

7.5

8.87

0.63

0.06

3.7

11.8

7.8

6.76

0.64

0.12

6.8

12.1

8.4

7.16

0.79

0.25

1.1

14.5

8.9

7.14

0.86

0.28

5.9

14.5

8.8

7.41

0.85

0.32

6.0

12.6

8.4

7.67

0.91

0.42

(4.7)

13.1

9.0

7.22

0.97

0.43

3.0

12.4

9.9

7.48

0.89

0.41

2.3

12.8

9.7

7.57

0.81

0.23

27.9

15.0

9.5

7.87

Note:
(1)  The accounting policy on HKAS 19 (Amendment) “Employee Benefits” was changed in 2013 and the figures prior to 2011 have not been restated to 

reflect this change.

(2)  The results of discontinued operation prior to 2017 have not been restated or reclassified.
(3)  The  accounting  policy  on  HKFRS  16  “Leases”  was  changed  in  2019  and  in  accordance  with  the  transitional  provision  in  HKFRS  16,  comparative 

figures have not been restated.

203
203

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Information

Corporate Information

EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

BRANCH REGISTRAR

SOLICITORS

Conyers Dill & Pearman
  Clarendon House
  2 Church Street
  Hamilton HM11
  Bermuda

  and at

  29th Floor, One Exchange Square
  8 Connaught Place
  Central
  Hong Kong

Ince & Co
  Suites 4404-10, 44th Floor
  One Island East
  18 Westlands Road, Taikoo Place
  Hong Kong

Slaughter and May
  47th Floor, Jardine House
  One Connaught Place
  Central
  Hong Kong

AUDITOR

PricewaterhouseCoopers
Certified Public Accountants
Registered Public Interest Entity 
Auditor
  22nd Floor
  Prince’s Building
  Central
  Hong Kong

Computershare Hong Kong Investor 
Services Limited
  Shops 1712-1716, 17th Floor
  Hopewell Centre
  183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai
  Hong Kong

LISTING EXCHANGE

The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong
Limited
Stock Code: 316

WEBSITE

http://www.ooilgroup.com

MAJOR BANKERS

Australia and New Zealand Banking 
  Group Limited
Bank of America, N.A.
Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited
Bank of Communications Company 
  Limited
China Construction Bank 
  Corporation
China Everbright Bank 
  Company Limited
Citibank, N.A.
DBS Bank Limited
HSBC Holdings plc
Industrial and Commercial Bank
  of China (Asia) Limited
ING Bank N.V.
MUFG Bank, Ltd
National Australia Bank
Oversea-Chinese Banking 
  Corporation Limited
Shanghai Pudong Development Bank 
  Company Limited
Société Générale
Standard Chartered Bank 
(Hong Kong) Limited

Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Limited

Mr. Xu Lirong (Chairman)
Mr. Wang Haimin
  (Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. Yang Zhijian
Mr. Feng Boming

NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Yan Jun
Ms. Wang Dan
Mr. Ip Sing Chi
Ms. Cui Hongqin

INDEPENDENT NON– 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip
Ms. Chen Ying
Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung

CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Mr. Zhang Mingwen

COMPANY SECRETARY

Ms. Lammy Lee

AUTHORISED 
REPRESENTATIVES

Mr. Yang Zhijian
Ms. Lammy Lee

PRINCIPAL OFFICE

31st Floor
Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road, Wanchai
Hong Kong

REGISTERED OFFICE

Clarendon House
2 Church Street
Hamilton HM11
Bermuda

PRINCIPAL REGISTRAR

MUFG Fund Services
(Bermuda) Limited
  4th Floor North Cedar House
  41 Cedar Avenue
  Hamilton HM12
  Bermuda

204

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2019 
 
 
Orient Overseas (International) Limited
(Incorporated in Bermuda with members’ limited liability)

31st Floor Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong   Telephone: (852) 2833 3888
www.ooilgroup.com

Design and Production by: A.Plus Financial Press Limited

This report is printed on paper in accordance with the standards below

Acid Free     Lignin Free     Dioxin Free     Biodegradable     ISO9001     ISO14001

