Corporate Profile

Corporate Profile

Corporate Profile

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (“OOIL”),  a  company  with  US$8.2  billion 
in total revenues, has principal business activities in container transport and logistics 
services.  Listed  on  The  Stock  Exchange  of  Hong  Kong,  the  OOIL  Group  has  more 
than 420 offices in over 90 countries/regions.

Orient  Overseas  Container  Line  and  OOCL  are  trade  names  for  transportation 
provided  separately  by  Orient  Overseas  Container  Line  Limited  (“OOCLL”)  and 
OOCL  (Europe)  Limited  respectively  and  both  are  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  of 
OOIL. OOCL is one of the world’s largest integrated international transportation and 
logistics  companies  and  is  an  industry  leader  in  the  use  of  information  technology 
and  e-commerce  to  manage  the  entire  cargo  transport  process.  OOCL’s  modern 
fleet today includes some of the youngest, largest, fuel efficient, and environmentally 
friendly  vessels  carrying  cargo  on  hundreds  of  trade  routes  around  the  world, 
providing a vital link in Global Trade.

 
Contents

Contents

Contents
Financial Highlights
Significant Events – 2020
Chairman’s Statement

1
2
3
10
14 Operations Review
18 Major Customers and Suppliers
Corporate Responsibility
22
Financial Review
30
Board of Directors
46
Senior Management
53
Shareholder Section
56
56  Financial Calendar
57  Shareholder Information
Corporate Governance Report
Report of the Directors
Index – Financial Information
Independent Auditor’s Report
Consolidated Financial Statements
108  Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
109  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
110  Consolidated Balance Sheet
112  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
113  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
114  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
185  Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures

60
87
101
102
108

196 Other Information

196  Fleet and Container Information
199  10-Year Financial Summary
200  Corporate Information

 
Financial Highlights

Financial Highlights

US$M
Consolidated Profit and Loss
Revenue
Operating profit
Finance costs
Profit before taxation
Profit from continuing operations
Profit from discontinued operation (excluding profit on disposal of  

Long Beach Container Terminal (“LBCT”))

Profit from operations
Profit on disposal of LBCT
Profit for the year

Consolidated Balance Sheet
Liquid assets#
Property, plant and equipment
Right-of-use assets
Total assets
Borrowings and lease liabilities
Total liabilities
Total equity

Consolidated Net Cash Flow
Net cash from operating activities
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities
Net cash used in financing activities
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents

Key Ratios
Earnings before interest and tax margin
Gross debt to equity
Net (cash)/debt to equity#
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity  

(excluding profit on disposal of LBCT)

Earnings per ordinary share (US cents)
Earnings per ordinary share (US cents) 

(excluding profit on disposal of LBCT) 
Net asset value per ordinary share (US dollar)

2020

8,191
992
(91)
914
903

–
903
–
903

3,323
3,745
2,303
10,645
3,070
5,003
5,642

1,905
(589)
(2,200)
(884)

12.3%
0.54
(0.04)
17.1%

17.1%
144.3

144.3
9.02

2019

6,879
361
(152)
224
154

41
195
1,154
1,349

2,859
3,162
2,831
11,202
3,991
6,275
4,927

660
702
(726)
636

6.5%
0.81
0.23
27.9%

4.0%
215.5

31.2
7.87

Increase/
(decrease) %

19%
175%
(40%)
308%
486%

N/M
363%
N/M
(33%)

16%
18%
(19%)
(5%)
(23%)
(20%)
15%

189%
N/M
203%
N/M

6%
(27%)
N/M
(11%)

13%
(33%)

363%
15%

# 

Liquid assets represent cash and bank balances, restricted bank balances, portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss and investments at 

amortised cost. Net (cash)/debt represents total debt deducted by liquid assets.

20%

15%

10%

5%

0%

-5%

US$
10

8

6

4

2

0

-2

25%

20%

15%

10%

5%

0%

-5%

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

Profit/(loss) from operations (L.H.S.)

Earnings before interest and tax margin (R.H.S.)

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share (L.H.S.)

Return on Average Ordinary Shareholders’ Equity (R.H.S.)
(excluding profit on disposal of LBCT)

US$M
1,200

900

600

300

0

-300

2

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Significant Events – 2020

JANUARY  1   2     

Significant Events – 2020

Following  his  resignation  as  Co-Chief  Executive  Officer  of  OOCL,  and  effective  from  1st 
January, Mr. Andy Tung was re-designated as a Non-Executive Director of OOIL and became 
Advisor to the Chief Executive Officer of OOCL.

1

OOCL  presented  the  latest  line  up  of  OCEAN  Alliance  products  to  meet  the 
evolving needs of the market. The fine-tuning adjustments made to the products 
each year have been key to building a consistently strong and reliable network for 
customers.

2

FEBRUARY  3   4     

OOCL,  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines,  Ocean  Network  Express  and 
Yang  Ming  announced  the  launch  of  a  new  weekly  Trans-Atlantic 
service  named  East  Mediterranean  –  America  Service  (EMA).  As 
a  dedicated  service  between  East  Mediterranean  and  East  Coast 
America, the EMA will offer competitive transit times and provide 
more service frequencies in the market.

3

OOCL  Logistics  announced  its  ongoing  South  America  network 
expansion  following  the  appointment  of  LogPar  International 
Forwarding as agent in Chile.

On 27th February, CargoSmart announced that nine industry-leading ocean carriers 
and  terminal  operators,  namely  CMA  CGM,  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines,  COSCO 
SHIPPING  Ports,  Hapag-Lloyd,  Hutchison  Ports,  OOCL,  Port  of  Qingdao,  PSA 
International,  and  Shanghai  International  Port  Group,  have  signed  a  shareholders’ 
agreement indicating their intention to become shareholders of the proposed Global 
Shipping Business Network Limited (GSBN).

4

33

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Significant Events – 2020

MARCH  5   6   7   

On  10th  March,  OOCL  signed  newbuilding  contracts  with 
shipyards  Nantong  COSCO  KHI  Ship  Engineering  Co.,  Ltd. 
and  Dalian  COSCO  KHI  Ship  Engineering  Co.  Ltd.  for  five  new 
container  vessels,  each  at  a  cost  of  US$155.68  million  with  a 
nominal capacity of 23,000 TEU.

5

6

US$1,348.8

On  23rd  March,  Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  and 
its  subsidiaries  (the  “Group”)  announced  a  profit  attributable 
to  equity  holders  of  US$1,348.8  million  in  2019,  compared  to  a 
profit of US$108.2 million in 2018.

7

OOCL Logistics further expanded its network in South America by setting up an agency appointment with NOS Logistic 
SRL in Asuncion, Paraguay.

APRIL  8   9   10  

On  7th  April,  CargoSmart  announced  that  it  conducted  a  pilot  project  with  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines,  Shanghai 
International Port Group, and Tesla, Inc. for a new application to transform the cargo release process. It was among the first 
pilot  projects  with  an  ocean  carrier  conducting  a  real-time  exchange  of  shipment  data  with  a  terminal  operator  through 
blockchain  technology.  The  pilot  not  only  demonstrated  the  benefits  of  having  a  single,  trusted  source  of  truth  in  cargo 
documentation, but also the efficiency gains for industry participants.

8

9

OOCL Logistics received several awards from Walmart China Limited 
at  their  National  Carrier  Conference  on  9th  April.  Some  of  the 
awards included the 2019 Best Cold Chain Carrier of The Year, 2019 
Best  Strategic  and  Development  Partner,  and  2020  Pioneer  Carrier 
Combating COVID-19.

10

OOCL  Logistics  received  the  “Outstanding  Contribution  Award”  from  Meituan  Dianping  for  outstanding  service 
performance during the outbreak of COVID-19. Located in one of the most affected cities in China, the team prepared an 
emergency action plan to monitor the outbreak and ensure the shipment of food and related materials for frontline medical 
staff were secured.

4

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Significant Events – 2020

JUNE  11      

OOCL proudly received the Fuel Efficiency Award at the 
Seatrade Maritime Awards Asia 2020 on 23rd June for the 
achievement in fuel savings and efficiency improvements. 
This annual industry event pays tribute to companies with 
remarkable achievements in various aspects of Asia’s maritime 
industry.

JULY  12   13     

11

On 3rd July, OOCL received a gold trophy from the Hong Kong 
Awards for Environmental Excellence (HKAEE) in the transport 
and  logistics  sector  for  the  fourth  time.  The  HKAEE  recognize 
organizations  that  had  showcased  leadership  in  environmental 
excellence and outstanding achievements.

12

OOCL  proudly  received  the  2019  Green  Flag  Environmental  Achievement 
Certificate  from  the  Port  of  Long  Beach  for  the  recognition  of  OOCL 
vessels’ participation in the speed reduction program which aims at reducing 
emission and improve the air quality for the local communities.

13

55

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Significant Events – 2020

AUGUST  14   15  

Effective 10th August, Mr. Xiaowen Huang was appointed as Executive Director and Chief 
Executive Officer of OOIL to succeed Mr. Haimin Wang.

On  21st  August,  the  Group  announced  a  profit  attributable  to  equity 
holders  of  US$102.1  million  for  the  six-month  period  ended  30th  June 
2020,  compared  to  a  profit  of  US$139.0  million  for  the  same  period  in 
2019.

14

OOCL launched a new service named Transpacific Latin Pacific 
3 (TLP3) in the Latin America market. The new product in the 
Asia – West Coast South America network offers a competitive 
transit  time  between  Chile  and  Southern  China  and  enhances 
OOCL’s network coverage in the region.

15

SEPTEMBER  16   17     

To  further  strengthen  OOCL’s  China  to  South-East 
Asia  service  network,  OOCL  introduced  a  new  China 
Indonesia  Philippines  service  (CIP)  which  enhances  the 
network coverage in China, Indonesia and the Philippines.

OOCL  launched  two  new  products,  namely  China 
Straits  Service  1  (CSS1)  and  China  Straits  Service  2 
(CSS2), which enhances market coverage between China, 
Singapore,  and  Malaysia,  providing  customers  with 
competitive  and  reliable  shipment  options  in  OOCL’s 
comprehensive intra-Asia network.

16

17

6

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Significant Events – 2020

OCTOBER  18   19   20   21  

On  5th  October,  OOCL  received  the  Gold  Award  in  services  sector  at  the  2019  BOCHK  Corporate  Environmental 
Leadership Awards ceremony. This prestigious awards program recognized OOCL’s continuous commitment to promoting 
environmental and low-carbon best practices in Hong Kong and the Pan Pearl River Delta region. It was the second time 
OOCL received the gold standing from this awards program organized by the Federation of Hong Kong Industries (FHKI).

OOCL  proudly  received  the  2020  Information  Visionary  award  at  the  IDC  Digital  Transformation  Awards  (DX  Awards) 
Hong  Kong  from  the  successful  development  and  new  advancements  made  to  its  MyOOCLReefer  solution.  Organized 
by  IDC  Hong  Kong,  the  DX  Awards  shines  the  spotlight  on  outstanding  organizations  that  have  made  important 
breakthroughs in their digital transformation journey.

18

19

On  30th  October,  OOCL  signed  newbuilding  contracts  with 
shipyards Nantong COSCO KHI Ship Engineering Co., Ltd. and 
Dalian  COSCO  KHI  Ship  Engineering  Co.  Ltd.  for  seven  new 
containerships, each with a nominal capacity of 23,000 TEU, at a 
total cost of approximately US$1.1 billion.

20

21

77

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Significant Events – 2020

NOVEMBER  22   23   24   25   26   27  

The  IQAX,  a  global  technology  company  wholly  owned  by 
OOIL,  was  officially  established.  Carrying  the  meaning  of 
“Intelligence to Accelerate Transformation” in the company’s 
name,  IQAX  will  provide  intelligent  solutions  to  drive  the 
digital  transformation  initiative  in  the  global  trade  and 
supply chain industry.

22

23

24

OOCL  Logistics  signed  a  strategic  cooperation  agreement  with  its  strategic  business  partner,  Xi’an  International  Inland 
Port  Multimodal  Transportation  Corporation,  at  the  third  annual  China  International  Import  Expo  2020  (CIIE)  in 
Shanghai on 7th November; reaching a new milestone in providing an important trade corridor for shippers who wish to 
leverage the extensive China Railway Express (Chang’an) network.

O O C L   L o g i s t i c s   l a u n c h e d   t h e   I S C M S - L i t e 
(International  Supply  Chain  Management  Service)  to 
enhance the customer’s visibility and control over their 
shipments in today’s dynamic market environment and 
ever increasingly complex global supply chains.

25

27

26

8

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Significant Events – 2020

DECEMBER  28   29     

On  8th  December,  OOCL  received  the  “Award  for  Outstanding  Port  State  Control  (PSC)  Performance  in  2019”  from 
the  Marine  Department  of  the  HKSAR.  Since  2008,  the  Marine  Department  has  been  awarding  Hong  Kong  flag  ships 
registered  in  Hong  Kong  for  their  outstanding  performance  in  Port  State  Control.  The  award  recognizes  OOCL’s 
outstanding ship management capabilities in conforming to international standards and contributions to maintaining the 
good reputation of the Hong Kong flag around the world.

28

For  the  fourth  time  in  a  row,  OOCL  received  a  rating  of  Level  A 
in  the  BICEPS  (Boosting  Initiatives  for  Collaborative  Emissions-
reduction with the Power of Shippers) rating system that recognizes 
companies  with  excellent  sustainability  efforts  and  performance. 
BICEPS  is  a  network  of  shippers  joining  forces  to  accelerate  the 
transition  of  the  global  shipping  sector  towards  more  sustainability 
initiatives.

29

99

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Chairman’s Statement

Chairman’s Statement

I would also like to thank our entire staff, both onshore and 
at sea, for everything they have contributed to our group 
in 2020: these efforts have helped us continue to serve our 
valued role as a Vital Link to World Trade.

Captain Xu Lirong
Chairman

10

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Chairman’s Statement

After  this  extraordinary  year,  it  is  more  important  than  ever 

Since  June,  the  situation  for  container  shipping  has  been 

that  I  begin  by  expressing,  on  behalf  of  the  Board  and  the 

improving.  Benefitting  from  effective  epidemic  prevention 

management  of  Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited 

measures,  China  was  among  the  first  countries  to  re-activate 

(“OOIL”),  my  sincere  thanks  to  all  our  shareholders  and 

production  and  re-open  for  business.  In  economies  such  as 

customers  for  their  continuous  support  to  our  group.  At  the 

the  United  States  and  Europe  by  a  combination  of  measures, 

same  time,  I  would  also  like  to  thank  our  entire  staff,  both 

including  the  encouragement  of  working  from  home  and 

onshore and at sea, for everything they have contributed to our 

governmental  subsidies,  consumer  demand  also  began  to 

group  in  2020:  these  efforts  have  helped  us  continue  to  serve 

improve.  In  turn,  demand  for  space  on  our  various  tradelanes 

our valued role as a Vital Link to World Trade.

increased  dramatically,  with  efforts  being  made  to  put  more 

capacity into service as quickly as possible, in order to meet the 

I  am  pleased  to  report  that  OOIL  recorded  a  net  profit 

surprising levels of demand.

attributable  to  shareholders  for  2020  of  US$902.7  million 

(2019:  US$1,348.8  million,  being  an  operating  profit  of 

This relatively prompt restart, coupled with the beginning of a 

US$195.2  million  and  a  one-off  gain  related  to  the  sale  of  our 

wave of unexpectedly strong demand that continued unabated 

interests in the Long Beach Container Terminal of US$1,153.6 

throughout  the  year,  led  to  more  capacity  being  deployed  on 

million).

some routes in the Trans-Pacific Peak Season 2020 than during 

It  is  proposed  that  a  final  dividend  of  US50.26  cents 

the same period in 2019.

(HK$3.920)  per  share  and  a  special  dividend  of  US86.6  cents  

Our  teams  had  to  manage  not  only  sudden  and  severe  swings 

(HK$6.755) per share be paid for 2020 (2019: final dividend of 

in  demand,  but  also  tremendous  operational  challenges. 

US2.69 cents (HK$0.210) and special dividend of US24.0 cents 

Lockdowns in different terminals and at different points in the 

(HK$1.872)).

supply  chain  created  chokepoints  at  key  hubs.  The  industry 

faced  additional  difficulties  with  a  shortage  of  workers  due  to 

Our  impressive  result  for  2020,  which  includes  the  highest 

social  distancing  measures.  As  more  and  more  services  were 

ever  revenue,  liftings  and  profit  figures  for  our  core 

introduced,  congestion  and  equipment  availability  became 

container  shipping  and  logistics  business,  was  achieved  in  an 

more  and  more  problematic.  All  these  elements  went  together 

unprecedented  and  extremely  complicated  context.  We  began 

to create operational delays, and a slowdown in the flow of the 

2020 with a relatively optimistic outlook, noting the first stage 

repositioning  of  container  boxes,  which  then  in  turn  created 

trade  agreement  between  China  and  the  United  States,  and 

further obstacles.

the improving trend in the supply and demand balance in our 

sector.  However,  very  soon,  the  global  consequences  of  the 

In  what  was  surely  one  of  the  most  difficult  global  and 

outbreak  of  COVID-19  began  to  be  felt.  Following  the  initial 

operating  contexts  in  living  memory,  it  is  a  tribute  to  the 

spread  of  the  virus  across  the  world,  market  and  customer 

professionalism and the we take it personally spirit of our staff 

forecasts  suggested  massive  reductions  in  demand.  While 

that,  as  we  fulfilled  our  commitments  to  our  customers  and 

demand certainly did fall, it did not fall as dramatically or for 

strove to minimise disruption to the supply chain, we were able 

as long as had been anticipated.

to produce these strong financial results.

1111

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Chairman’s Statement

After  this  profitable  year,  our  balance  sheet  is  in  even  more 

Our  logistics  business,  OOCL  Logistics,  in  spite  of  COVID-

robust  health.  Our  net  cash  now  stands  at  US$253.2  million 

related  challenges  earlier  in  the  year,  had  a  fruitful  2020.  We 

(2019: net debt of US$1,132.3 million, after adjustment for the 

strengthened  our  business  in  rail  services  between  China  and 

US$1,001.3  million  special  dividend  paid  in  February  2020), 

Europe, and our Air Freight Forwarding. Our warehousing and 

and  our  financial  position  remains  one  of  the  best  in  the 

distribution  activities  increased,  and  we  added  new  depot  and 

industry.  In  this  context,  we  are  very  well  placed  to  continue 

warehousing  capacity  in  Thailand  and  Vietnam.  We  believe 

our long-established pattern of stable and intelligent growth.

that  co-operation  between  our  logistics  business  and  our  liner 

activities will help to drive our groupwide strategic growth plan 

We  placed  orders  for  twelve  23,000  TEU  vessels  during  2020, 

for end-to-end services.

which  are  scheduled  to  be  delivered  during  2023-2024.  Not 

only  will  these  modern,  efficient  vessels  improve  our  cost 

ESG  has  been  at  the  heart  of  our  business  for  many  years. 

structure  and  our  services  in  the  Asia-Europe  trade,  but  they 

In  terms  of  environmental  matters,  we  have  complied  with 

also  serve  as  clear  evidence  of  the  entire  group’s  continuing 

the  requirements  of  IMO  2020,  and  continue  to  be  a  leader 

commitment to our very successful dual brand strategy.

in  the  use  of  green  technology,  including  shore-based  power 

alternatives.  In  terms  of  social  responsibilities,  the  challenges 

We have continued to explore new ways of creating additional 

in  effecting  crew  changes  were  rightly  a  key  focus  during 

synergy  from  our  position  within  the  COSCO  SHIPPING 

2020,  and  remain  so.  Seafarers,  through  their  efforts  and 

Group. Our teams continue to have success in identifying new 

sacrifices,  have  kept  world  trade  flowing  during  2020,  and 

forms of co-operation, and we believe that this will be a critical 

we  all  owe  them  a  special  debt  of  thanks.  We  will  exert  every 

part of our success in the coming years.

effort  to  ensure  the  safety  and  wellbeing  of  our  seafarers,  and 

this  includes  going  the  extra  mile  to  help  them  return  home 

Our  group  continues  to  advance  its  longstanding  track 

at  the  end  of  each  assignment.  We  believe  that  we  have  been 

record  as  a  leader  in  technology  and  digital  innovation.  We 

among  the  best  performers  in  this  regard,  and,  having  signed 

launched our FreightSmart platform, which will provide instant 

the  Neptune  Declaration,  we  look  forward  to  encouraging  all 

quotation and booking. We inaugurated IQAX, a wholly-owned 

parties to facilitate crew change, even during these challenging 

subsidiary, which will play a leading role in driving the digital 

pandemic times.

transformation of the container shipping industry. In the early 

part of the year our Business Continuity Infrastructure was put 

to  the  test,  as  thousands  of  employees  suddenly  had  to  work 

from home due to COVID-19 lockdowns – thanks to the solid 

efforts of all colleagues, we passed this test with flying colours, 

and maintained business operations and high quality customer 

service.

12

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Looking  ahead,  despite  current  strong  markets,  we  must 

recognise  that  the  full  impact  of  COVID-19  may  not  be 

known  for  some  time.  By  this,  I  mean  not  only  the  inevitable 

fluctuations  of  the  freight  rate  markets  and  of  the  balance 

between  shipping  supply  and  global  demand,  but  also  that 

it  remains  to  be  seen  how  supply  chains  will  evolve  after 

the  challenges  of  2020.  We  seek  to  serve  our  customers  with 

ever  greater  end-to-end  services  and  improved  digitalised 

interfaces. However, it also creates challenges and risks, which 

we will address intelligently and proactively.

Whatever  happens,  OOIL  will  adapt  and  be  ready  to  serve  its 

customers.  We  will  continue  to  work  tirelessly  and  diligently 

to  be  at  the  forefront  of  our  industry,  in  technology,  in 

environmental  and  social  responsibility,  in  customer  service, 

and in profitability and financial health. As part of the COSCO 

SHIPPING  Group,  a  true  global  leader  in  container  shipping 

and  logistics,  we  have  confidence  that,  under  our  Dual  Brand 

strategy, we are well placed to drive forward the success of our 

industry, as a Vital Link to World Trade.

Captain Xu Lirong

Chairman

Hong Kong, China, 26th March 2021

Chairman’s Statement

1313

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Operations Review

Operations Review

The financial outcome for 2020 was exemplary, indeed the 

highest total revenue and highest net profit ever achieved 

by OOCL in its core business.

14

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Operations Review

CONTAINER TRANSPORT
Even if the final results were impressively strong, the operating 
environment  during  2020  was  challenging,  in  very  different 
ways at different  stages of the  year.   The usual  reasons behind 
movements  in  supply  and  demand  would  not  be  sufficient  to 
explain  these  fast-changing  operating  conditions.    In  terms  of 
impact  upon  our  industry,  it  was  the  effect  of  responses  from 
governments around the world to the spread of COVID-19 that 
were,  by  far,  the  main  force  behind  the  dramatic  events  of  the 
year. 

At the beginning of the year, as the global consequences of the 
outbreak of COVID-19 began to be felt, forecasts from all parts 
of the supply chain suggested massive reductions in anticipated 
levels  of  demand.    Since  June,  the  situation  for  container 
shipping  has  been  improving.    Benefitting  from  effective 
epidemic  prevention  measures,  China  was  among  the  first 
countries  to  re-activate  production  and  re-open  for  business. 
This  relatively  prompt  restart,  coupled  with  strengthening 
consumer  spending  in  key  import  economies,  drove  a  rapid 
return  in  demand.    On  the  basis  of  these  improvements  and 
less  pessimistic  forecasts,  we  were  able  to  provide  additional 
network  and  extra  capacity  to  serve  our  customers,  to  ensure 
smooth running of the global supply chain.  

Adapting  to  the  massive  swings  in  demand  and  the  need  to 
maintain  high  levels  of  service  has  certainly  been  a  challenge 
during  the  year.    Our  teams  have  managed  this  very  well, 
despite  the  added  complexities  that  emerged  during  the  last 
months  of  2020:  port  congestion,  bad  weather  delays  and 
shortages of container boxes in many key locations. 

We  continued  to  benefit  from  increased  co-operation  and 
synergy within COSCO SHIPPING Holdings, which helped us 
to  handle  the  challenges  of  the  year  in  the  most  professional 
and efficient manner.  In this Dual Brand context, and despite 
the  impact  of  the  pandemic,  we  expanded  our  presence  into 
new  routes,  servicing  many  emerging  markets,  not  least  Latin 
America, and building up our global coverage further.

1515

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Operations Review

Our  group  continued  our  long-standing  practice  of  effective 
cost  management,  which  indeed  has  been  considerably 
enhanced  by  two  full  years  of  synergy  benefits  from  the  Dual 
Brand strategy.

It was widely expected that one of the major factors driving the 
performance  of  the  industry  in  2020  would  be  the  impact  of 
the  introduction  of  the  IMO  2020  regulations,  which  require 
vessels only to use fuel with a level of sulphur below 0.5%.  In 
the end, this was not a significant issue, for two reasons.  First, 
the  price  of  oil  fell  significantly,  especially  after  the  spread  of 
the  pandemic,  meaning  that  the  price  of  all  grades  of  refined 
products  also  fell  materially.    Second,  although  the  price  of 
IMO  2020  compliant  fuel  fluctuated  between  US$200-US$300 
per ton above the price of the higher sulphur previous market 
standard fuel during the first few weeks of 2020, it very quickly 
dropped  to  be  around  only  US$50-US$70  more  expensive.  
Availability  of  compliant  fuel  was  much  better  than  expected, 
as was quality, which suggests that the shipping, bunkering and 
refining industries was better prepared than had been feared.

OOCL Liner
1Q20 v 1Q19
2Q20 v 2Q19
3Q20 v 3Q19
4Q20 v 4Q19
Total

16

On the basis of an increase in liftings, an even higher increase 
in revenue levels as well as bunker cost reduction, the financial 
outcome  for  2020  was  exemplary,  indeed  the  highest  total 
revenue  and  highest  net  profit  ever  achieved  by  OOCL  in  its 
core business, and also a demonstration of the effectiveness of 
our Dual Brand strategy.  

Nevertheless,  there  is  no  guarantee  as  to  the  outlook  for  the 
future. It remains to be seen how trade flows will be impacted 
as  the  world  re-opens.    It  is  unclear  whether  underlying 
economic strength will allow a swift return to normal, perhaps 
encouraged  by  government  stimulus  programmes,  or  whether 
there  will  be  a  negative  impact  on  demand  caused  by  the 
aftermath of economic lockdowns.  There is also the possibility 
that  importers  may  seek  ways  to  shorten  or  at  least  diversify 
their  supply  chains.  At  all  times,  OOCL  will  continue  to 
monitor developments closely.  

For  many  years  now,  we  have  commented  on  the  benefits  of 
alliance membership. Our situation within the Ocean Alliance 
continues to provide us significant advantage, and ensures that 
we  are  able  to  offer  a  broad,  high-quality  service  network  to 
our  customers.  We  have  been  members  of  the  Ocean  Alliance 
for  four  years,  and  look  forward  to  attaining  further  benefit 
from our continued membership into a fifth year.

Notwithstanding  the  pandemic,  our  liftings  were  up  7.3% 
overall.  This  growth  outpaced  the  volume  growth  seen  in  the 
market as a whole.

TEU
(0.4%)
(4.6%)
9.5%
23.7%
7.3%

Growth in 2020
Revenue
5.5%
1.1%
16.3%
51.2%
18.9%

Revenue/TEU
6.0%
5.9%
6.2%
22.2%
10.8%

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operations Review

Trade

Trans-Pacific
Asia/Europe
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia/Australasia

Total

LIFTING (’000 TEU)

REVENUE (US$ million)

2020

2,166
1,496
545
3,255

7,462

2019

1,967
1,423
478
3,086

6,954

Variance

10.2%
5.1%
14.0%
5.5%

7.3%

2020

3,001
1,535
597
2,328

7,461

2019

2,513
1,233
593
1,937

6,276

Variance

19.4%
24.5%
0.6%
20.2%

18.9%

Trans-Pacific  –  After  the  shock  effect  of  the  initial  spread 
of  the  pandemic,  cargo  demand  from  Asia  to  the  US  grew 
strongly throughout the rest of the year.  OOCL saw an overall 
increase in liftings of 10.2%, with most of the growth occurring 
in  Q4,  when  volumes  grew  by  an  impressive  28.9%.    Revenue 
also  increased  tremendously  on  these  routes,  19.4%  year-on-
year  and  56.6%  for  Q4.    This  outcome  reflects  the  underlying 
resilience of the US economy, and also some factors specific to 
COVID-19  and  the  events  of  2020,  such  as  a  shift  in  volumes 
that  might  ordinarily  have  moved  in  H1  to  H2,  due  to  the 
pattern  of  lockdowns,  and  to  consumer  spending  on  goods 
rather than services.  

Towards  the  end  of  the  year,  increasing  congestion  at  the 
key  hubs  of  Los  Angeles/Long  Beach,  as  well  as  inland 
bottlenecks  hindering  the  flow  of  empty  containers  back  to 
port  and  on  to  Asia  presented  operational  challenges.    These 
remain  unresolved  at  the  time  of  writing.  OOCL’s  teams,  in 
partnership  with  our  Dual  Brand  colleagues  within  COSCO 
SHIPPING Lines, continue to work to minimise the impact of 
these difficulties on our customers.  

At  the  beginning  of  2020,  we  noted  the  agreement  of  the 
first  phase  trade  deal  between  the  US  and  China,  and  that 
uncertainties  remained  about  how  general  trading  regulations 
would evolve.  This remains the case, but was not as significant 
a topic in 2020 as COVID-19.  Nevertheless, the Trans-Pacific 
remains  one  of  our  key  trades,  and  so  we  will  continue  to 
monitor developments closely, and will be ready to adapt to the 
evolving market situation.

Asia/Europe – The pattern for the Asia/Europe tradelanes was 
similar  to  what  was  seen  on  the  Trans-Pacific  routes,  even  if 
with  a  later  rebound  from  the  low  points  of  the  early  Spring.   
Various  forms  of  lockdown  were  imposed  at  different  times 
in  Europe,  which  led,  together  with  an  underlying  economic 
performance that had not been as strong as in the US, to very 
pessimistic  forecasts  in  the  first  half,  and  to  a  more  delayed 
recovery.    Nevertheless,  by  the  end  of  2020,  Asia/Europe  was 
performing  extremely  strong,  in  terms  of  both  volumes  and 
rates.    While  severe  congestion  in  Felixstowe,  Rotterdam 
and  other  key  hubs  presented  operational  challenges,  OOCL 
and  Dual  Brand  teams  co-operated  to  keep  cargo  moving  as 
smoothly as possible.   

Liftings  increased  significantly.    Volumes  in  Q4  were  17.6% 
higher  than  in  the  same  period  last  year,  with  revenues  being 
56.5%  higher.    For  the  full  year,  volumes  grew  by  5.1%,  while 
revenues  grew  by  24.5%.  Market  momentum  continued  to 
build  during  the  last  few  weeks  of  the  year,  with  positive 
sentiment prevailing at the start of 2021.  

Following  the  agreement  of  a  trade  deal  between  the  United 
Kingdom and the European Union, Brexit uncertainty appears, 
in  substance,  to  have  been  eliminated  as  a  risk  factor  for  the 
container  sector.  We  note  moves  by  the  United  Kingdom  to 
enter  into  free  trade  agreements  with  other  countries  around 
the  world,  and  to  seek  admission  into  the  Trans-Pacific  Trade 
Agreement:  if  these  intentions  are  realised,  this  could  be 
positive for our industry.  

1717

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MAJOR CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS
Approximately  6.6%  and  16.6%  of  the  Group’s  total 
expenditure  on  purchases  of  goods  and  services  for  the  year 
are attributable to the largest supplier and five largest suppliers 
respectively.

Approximately  1.7%  and  6.5%  of  the  Group’s  total  reported 
revenues  for  the  year  are  attributable  to  the  largest  customer 
and five largest customers respectively.

The  Group  has  entered  into  slot  sharing  arrangements 
with  other  container  shipping  companies.  The  receipts  and 
payments  from  slot  sharing  arrangements  have  not  been 
included  in  determining  the  major  customers  and  suppliers 
since  it  would  be  misleading  to  do  so  as  the  receipts  and 
payments  are  in  respect  of  sharing  arrangements  for  the 
utilisation of vessel space.

No director or any of his associates holds any equity interest in 
the suppliers or customers included above.

SHIP OPERATIONS
As at 31st December, 2020, the OOCL fleet composition was as 
follows:

Fleet

Owned /  

Long Term Lease

Short Term Lease
Chartered Out

Operating Capacity

No. of Vessels

TEU Capacity

71
48
(6)

113

595,330
239,777
(53,328)

781,779

No new building vessels were delivered in 2020.

Operations Review

Trans-Atlantic  –  The  North  American  and  European 
economies  were  both  deeply  affected  by  economic  shutdowns 
that  followed  the  initial  spread  of  COVID-19.    Unlike  the 
Trans-Pacific and Asia-Europe routes, the Trans-Atlantic trade 
also  had  to  cope  with  lockdowns  occurring  simultaneously 
at  both  ends  of  the  tradelane.    For  the  industry  as  a  whole 
therefore,  there  was  not  as  much  growth  in  the  second  half  as 
was  seen  on  other  tradelanes.    OOCL,  together  with  COSCO 
SHIPPING  Lines  as  Dual  Brand  partner,  intended  to  grow 
in  the  Trans-Atlantic  routes  during  2020,  and  managed  to 
achieve  this  despite  the  unforeseeable  events  of  the  year.    Q4 
liftings  grew  by  almost  23%  as  compared  to  the  same  period 
last year, whereas revenue grew by a more moderate 4.0%.  For 
the  full  year,  liftings  grew  by  14.0%,  with  revenue  almost  flat, 
increasing by 0.6%.

Intra-Asia/Australasia  –  In  the  early  part  of  the  year,  some 
Intra-Asian  tradelanes  suffered  more  than  others,  due  to  the 
varying  effects  of  COVID-related  shutdowns.  For  example, 
China-Middle  East  and  China-India-Pakistan  routes  were 
affected  by  the  impact  of  strict  lockdowns  in  some  places, 
whereas  Japanese  routes  felt  the  impact  of  the  slowdown  of 
the  automotive  industry  there.  As  the  year  progressed,  the 
improvements  seen  in  the  major  East  West  routes  also  fed 
through to Intra-Asia routes, such that liftings (which had been 
down  5%  for  the  first  half)  ended  up  increasing  by  23.5%  for 
Q4,  and  5.5%  for  the  full  year  (each  figure  being  a  year-on-
year  comparison).    Revenue  for  the  first  half  had  managed  to 
increase by 5.6%, but in Q4 increased by 55.1%, and for the full 
year showed growth of 20.2% (again, all figures are based on a 
year-on-year comparison).

Like  most  industry  participants,  we  have  worked  hard 
to  provide  additional  network  and  capacity  to  serve  our 
customers  where  they  do  business,  including  in  fast  growing 
economies  such  as  Vietnam.    During  this  year,  we  had  to  pay 
especially  close  attention  to  where  increased  cargo  flows  were 
expected,  after  the  dramatic  drops  seen  earlier  in  the  year, 
and  at  all  times  were  ready  to  make  the  necessary  service 
adjustments  to  satisfy  customer  demand.  The  Intra-Asia 
tradelanes  are  always  highly  dynamic,  but  this  year  especially 
so.  

With  a  similar  pattern  to  the  East  West  tradelanes,  our  routes 
to  Australia  and  New  Zealand  did  see  some  slowdown  in  the 
first half of the year, which was then countered by a remarkably 
strong  and  enduring  recovery.  Notwithstanding  labour 
shortages  and  equipment  flow  issues  due  to  lockdowns,  and 
despite  bad  weather  and  severe  terminal  congestion,  business 
levels became very strong in terms of both volumes and rates in 
the last few months of the year.  

18

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Operations Review

Bunker Cost/Saving

There has been a period of large fluctuation of fuel prices in the 
year 2020, especially in the first half of the year. 

After  the  International  Maritime  Organization’s  (IMO)  Low 
Sulphur Cap 2020 regulation was effective on 1st January, 2020, 
bunker  prices  rose  to  more  than  US$  600/ton.  However,  with 
the  global  outbreak  of  COVID-19  in  late  January,  the  Fuel  oil 
and  Diesel  prices  dropped  sharply,  reaching  the  lowest  point 
in  April.  Prices  became  more  moderate  and  stable  through 
May and from June to the end of the year, the price of Fuel oil 
ranged  from  US$320  to  US$400,  and  Diesel  oil  ranged  from 
US$370 to US$440.

We  have  been  very  persistent  in  focusing  intensely  on  bunker 
and  engine  lubricating  oil  saving  programs  throughout  the 
year.  These  programs  include:  maintaining  optimal  routing 
for  the  fleet,  vessel  speed  optimisation,  efficient  use  of  shaft 
generators,  as  well  as  achieving  minimum  ballast  and  optimal 
trim. 

In  2020,  five  OOCL  vessels,  namely  the  ‘OOCL Guangzhou’, 
‘OOCL Jakarta’, ‘OOCL London’,  ‘OOCL Luxembourg’  and 
‘OOCL Savannah’  were  fitted  with  scrubber  technology.  
Therefore,  in  addition  to  the  scrubber  installed  on  ‘OOCL 
Singapore’  during  2019,  a  total  of  six  vessels  in  our  fleet  have 
the option of using High Sulphur fuel oil.

To  ensure  our  bunker  and  related  saving  objectives  can 
be  achieved,  the  excellent  effort,  teamwork,  and  the  close 
coordination  and  collaboration  by  all  the  concerned  parties, 
both  on-shore  and  off-shore,  have  been  key  to  the  success  of 
the bunker saving program.

As  part  of  the  Group’s  long-term  strategic  development  and 
growth  plan,  we  placed  two  orders  in  2020,  for  a  total  of 
twelve  23,000  TEU  class  vessels  with  Nantong  COSCO  KHI 
Ship  Engineering  Co.,  Ltd.  and  Dalian  COSCO  KHI  Ship 
Engineering CO., Ltd. in China. The delivery of these vessels is 
expected to begin from the year 2023.

The  order  of  twelve  mega-sized  vessels  will  not  only  help 
optimise  our  fleet  structure  and  capacity,  but  also  achieve 
better  economies  of  scale  and  improve  operational  efficiency, 
which  thereby  enhances  our  overall  competitiveness  in  the 
market.

As  of  the  end  of  2020,  the  average  age  of  OOCL’s  self-owned 
vessels is 10.77 years, and the average size is 8,915 TEU.

1919

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Operations Review

Environmental Protection

In  addition  to  compliance  with  international  and  local 
emission  control  regulations,  we  also  remain  very  supportive 
of  international  efforts  to  measure  and  control  shipboard 
emissions. 

In 2020, all our vessels complied with the IMO 2020 regulatory 
requirement by either using cleaner fuel (0.5% sulphur content 
or less) or scrubber technology. 

Apart  from  the  use  of  Alternative  Maritime  Power  (AMP) 
systems  that  allows  shore-based  power  alternatives,  our 
vessels are also installed with Ballast Water Treatment Systems 
(BWTS)  to  comply  with  the  IMO  and  United  States  Coast 
Guard  regulations.  Both  AMP  and  BWTS  are  effective  green 
technologies  we  use  to  improve  air  and  water  quality  in  the 
environment.

Vessels  installed  with  BWTS  also  provides  more  flexibility  in 
fleet deployment plans.

In  addition  to  regulator y  compliance,  we  have  been 
participating in various environmental initiatives, including the 
Green Flag Program at the Port of Long Beach, as well as Vessel 
Speed Reduction Programs at the Port of Los Angeles, Taiwan 
International  Commercial  Port  Area  and  Major  Korean  Ports 
Areas.  Furthermore,  we  have  also  been  fully  compliant  to  the 
California  and  New  Zealand  Biofouling  regulations,  meeting 
the  Right  Whale  Protection  requirements  in  US  East  Coast, 
and  voluntarily  participated  in  the  Port  of  Vancouver  Echo 
Program  Lateral  Displacement  Trial  to  reduce  the  impact  of 
underwater noise on whales.  

20

LOGISTICS
In  2020,  OOCL  Logistics  achieved  healthy  business  and 
revenue  growth  across  the  board,  including  our  4th  Party 
Logistics,  Air  Freight  Forwarding  and  Domestic  Warehousing 
&  Distribution  units.    We  continued  with  our  agenda  to 
strengthen  our  air  freight  forwarding  and  rail  services 
between  China,  Russia  and  Europe  as  our  customers  look  for 
multiple  transport  modes  in  handling  their  supply  chains.    In 
November,  we  signed  a  strategic  cooperation  agreement  with 
Xi’an  International  Inland  Port  Multimodal  Transportation 
Corporation  at  the  third  annual  China  International  Import 
Expo  (CIIE)  in  Shanghai  to  further  our  commitment  to 
providing more competitive rail services to our customers.

Year  2020  was  also  a  year  of  expansion  for  OOCL  Logistics 
with a new depot and warehouse being opened in Thailand and 
Vietnam respectively, the addition of new agency appointments 
to  expand  our  business  network,  and  the  establishment  of  a 
Regional Service Hub soon to be operational in South America.

During  the  global  health  crisis,  OOCL  Logistics  acted  on  our 
social  responsibilities  by  taking  part  in  numerous  initiatives 
to  ensure  medical  supplies,  food  and  daily  necessities  were 
delivered  accordingly.    In  our  effort  to  keeping  cargo  and 
supply  chains  moving  amidst  the  disruptions  caused  by  the 
pandemic,  we  received  many  compliments  and  recognition 
from  our  stakeholders  on  our  outstanding  performance  and 
commitment  to  going  the  extra  mile  in  meeting  the  needs  of 
our customers and community.

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
In  response  to  the  COVID-19  pandemic  in  2020,  an  effective 
Business  Continuity  IT  infrastructure  was  set  up  to  enable 
employees  located  around  the  world  to  work  from  home,  and 
to continue with business operations and provide high-quality 
customer service. This included our successful implementation 
and  global  adoption  of  Microsoft  Teams,  a  next  generation 
digital collaboration workspace, which has proven to be a very 
effective  digital  platform  in  providing  the  business  agility  and 
efficiency we needed under the COVID-19 situation. 

To  further  improve  on  cost  efficiency  and  to  provide  full 
visibility  of  our  traffic  network  utilization  situation,  we 
continued  to  strengthen  our  capability  in  the  use  of  Artificial 
Intelligence (“AI”) technologies to explore the dynamics in the 
supply  and  demand  of  our  containers  under  various  business 
scenarios.  

In terms of our e-Commerce strategy, our new “FreightSmart” 
online  platform  was  implemented  to  provide  instant  rate 
quotation  and  booking  confirmation,  space  and  container 
availability  protection,  as  well  as  online  payment  support  as  a 
one-stop  service  for  customers.    FreightSmart  is  an  important 
milestone in our digital transformation journey and we believe 
its benefits extend our ability to improve business relationships 
with our customers.

Equipment  maintenance  and  repair  is  an  important  part  of 
our  business  because  the  equipment  condition  and  life  cycles 
have  direct  impact  on  our  equipment  supply,  operations,  and 
service  quality.  As  such,  OOCL  has  been  conducting  research 
in  developing  new  and  intelligent  equipment  management 
capabilities  in  order  to  minimise  container  idling  times  while 
maximising  their  utilisation.  This  capability  can  also  increase 
the  operational  efficiency  of depots  and  terminals in  handling 
equipment  maintenance  and  repair,  thereby  bringing  benefits 
to the whole equipment flow process. 

Operations Review

The  end-to-end  shipment  operation  in  the  liner  business  is 
very complex and involves many stakeholders along the lengthy 
shipment cycle from the origin to destination. To address these 
challenges,  our  “Nerve  Center”  solution  was  launched  with  a 
vision  to  effectively  identify  and  monitor  for  any  significant 
shipment  issues  by  leveraging  analytics  and  simulation.    This 
solution  also  enhances  cross-regional  and  departmental 
collaboration  so  that  preventive  or  recovery  actions  can  be 
taken  in  a  timely  and  proactive  manner  to  ensure  quality 
service to customers. It covers all the customer shipment touch 
points  along  the  shipment  cycle,  including  cargo  booking, 
bill  of  lading  documentation,  outbound  and  inbound  cargo 
delivery process as well as invoice and payment details. 

IQAX,  a  wholly-owned  global  technology  company  of  the 
Group,  was  officially  inaugurated  to  spearhead  shipping 
digitalisation  and  create  a  harmonis ed  g lobal  trade 
environment.  IQAX  is  an  important  milestone  and  the 
Group’s  latest  initiative  in  driving  digital  transformation  in 
the  shipping  industry  through  close  collaboration  with  all 
major  stakeholders  in  the  global  supply  chain.  The  company 
will  serve  as  a  trusted  adviser  to  foster  digital  collaboration 
amongst  industr y  partners,  such  as  shippers,  freight 
forwarders,  carriers,  terminals  and  financial  institutions,  to 
deliver effective, secure and reliable solutions for the industry. 

PROPERTY
Based on an independent valuation as at 31st December 2020, 
Wall  Street  Plaza  was  valued  downwards  by  US$30.0  million, 
reflecting an assessed market value of US$280.0 million. Taking 
into  consideration  of  US$0.5  million  capital  expenditures  on 
the  building  in  2020,  the  fair  value  loss  for  2020  has  come  to 
US$30.5 million.  As at 31st December 2019, Wall Street Plaza 
was valued at US$310.0 million.

2121

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Responsibility

Corporate Responsibility

The Group is dedicated to promoting 
sustainable business practices in the 
supply chain. Our Corporate Sustainable 
Procurement Policy has been implemented 
in every aspect of our business and at every 
stage of the supply chain.

22

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Corporate Responsibility

The  Group  prides  itself  upon  being  a  responsible  corporate 
citizen and it employs the highest standards of business ethics 
in  all  that  it  does.  Headed  by  a  senior  management  Steering 
Committee  and  a  Global  Security,  Safety  and  Environment 
Care Officer, the Group embraces the core values of Corporate 
Social Responsibility at all levels.

The  Group  places  the  utmost  importance  on  environmental 
care  and  community  support.  Despite  the  current  difficult 
economic  environment,  we  must  continue  to  address  the 
long-term  threat  of  climate  change.  We  strive  to  play  our  part 
in  tackling  this  global  problem  through  engagement  with 
organisations  such  as  the  Business  Environment  Council, 
the  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  and  the  Maritime  Anti-
Corruption  Network.  Throughout  the  year,  the  Group  has 
won  awards  and  accolades  for  its  environmental  performance, 
and  OOIL  Group  employees  around  the  world  have  been 
actively  supporting  their  local  communities  through  various 
environmental initiatives.

The  Group  is  dedicated  to  promoting  sustainable  business 
practices  in  the  supply  chain.  Our  Corporate  Sustainable 
Procurement  Policy  has  been  implemented  in  every  aspect 
of  our  business  and  at  every  stage  of  the  supply  chain. 
For  example,  under  our  vendor  and  supplier  selection 
mechanism,  a  self-assessment  of  the  potential  contractor 
must  be  completed  to  confirm  their  compliance  to  our  Safety, 
Security,  Environmental  and  Social  Guidelines,  where  on-
site verification of their facilities  may  be conducted if deemed 
necessary.  Once  compliance  is  confirmed  we  would  review 
and  work  with  our  vendors  to  ensure  compliance  levels  are 
maintained.

In  addition,  the  OOCL  Carbon  Calculator  is  designed  to 
assist  OOCL  customers  measure  CO2  emissions  in  their 
supply  chains.  The  scope  of  the  calculator  spans  across 
vessels,  trucks,  feeders,  and  rail  with  over  70,000  port  pairs 
recorded.  OOCL  spearheaded  the  project  in  2010,  partnering 
with  the  Department  of  Logistics  and  Maritime  Studies  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Polytechnic  University.  The  Calculator  has  been 
checked and verified for its methodology, accuracy and carbon 
footprint  calculations  by  The  American  Bureau  of  Shipping 
(ABS) Consulting.

2323

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Responsibility

OUR ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES
The  Group  recognises  that  businesses  must  take  responsibility 
for  their  industry’s  effects  on  the  environment.  Our  company 
is  dedicated  to  meeting  the  needs  of  the  present  without 
compromising  those  of  the  future.  We  encourage  sustainable 
economic  development  through  innovative  environmental 
care  measures  and  believe  that  by  taking  a  proactive  role  in 
caring  for  the  environment,  we  can  help  minimise  our  carbon 
footprint, improve air quality and make the world a better place 
to live for ourselves and future generations.

We  actively  participate  in  green  programs  and  have  received 
recognition for our achievements and best practices, including:

The  Safety,  Quality  and  Environmental  (SQE)  Management 
System  Certificate  –  OOCL  was  the  first  container  shipping 
line  in  the  world  to  have  achieved  the  SQE  certification 
which  consolidates  the  ISM-Code,  ISO  9001  and  ISO  14001 
requirements.

Vessel  Speed  Reduction  Programs  –  Each  year,  OOCL  has 
been  fully  compliant  to  reducing  vessel  speed  when  entering 
within both 20 and 40 nautical miles of the Port of Long Beach 
and  Port  of  Los  Angeles  harbors.  Our  efforts  have  effectively 
contributed to improving the air quality by reducing emissions 
such  as  smog  forming  nitrogen  oxides  NOx,  diesel  particulate 
matter  and  greenhouse  gases.  Port  officials  estimate  that  if  all 
vessels comply with the Program, the amount of NOx produced 
by container ships would be reduced by nearly 550 tons a year.

Ballast  Water  Management  Program  –  All  container  ships 
discharge  ballast  water,  which  can  contain  organisms  that 
may  be  harmful  to  other  environments.  We  have  a  policy  of 
exchanging  ballast  water  only  in  the  open  sea  (200  nautical 
miles  away  from  the  nearest  coastline)  to  achieve  zero  ballast 
water  exchange  when  berthed  at  the  port.  OOCL’s  new 
buildings  are  already  equipped  with  an  IMO  approved  Ballast 
Water Treatment System to effectively treat ballast water before 
discharging.

24

Hong  Kong  Green  Organisation  Certification  (HKGOC)  – 
The  HKGOC  aims  to  benchmark  the  performance  of  “green” 
organisations  to  encourage  them  to  sustain  their  various 
environmental  best  practices.  It  also  presents  organisations 
with  the  opportunity  to  demonstrate  their  commitment  to 
improve different aspects of their environmental performance. 
In  appreciation  of  our  efforts  towards  environmental 
protection,  OOCL  was  given  the  status  of  “Hong  Kong  Green 
Organisation”  (HKGO)  by  the  Environmental  Campaign 
Committee  (ECC)  from  being  a  Gold  Winner  in  the  Hong 
Kong Awards for Environmental Excellence (HKAEE).

“Excellence  Level”  Wastewi$e  Certificate  –  OOCL  also 
received  environmental  recognition  for  our  participation 
and  performance  in  the  Wastewi$e  Certificate  under  the 
Hong  Kong  Green  Organisation  Certification  (HKGOC).  In 
order  to  be  granted  with  the  “Excellence  Level”  Wastewi$e 
Certificate,  participants  must  successfully  implement  all 
applicable  Mandatory  Measures  and  at  least  80%  of  all  non-
Mandatory Measures of the four categories. The four categories 
of  measures  include  Guidelines/Action  Plan/Training,  Waste 
Avoidance, Recycling and Green Procurement.

Stop  Shipping  Shark,  Whale,  Dolphin,  Their  Related 
Products  and  Hunting  Trophies  –  OOCL  is  committed  to 
our  policy  that  bookings  for  whale,  shark,  dolphin,  and  their 
related products will not be accepted. Starting from September 
2020,  OOCL  has  also  ceased  to  ship  hunting  trophies.  These 
policies  show  our  commitment  in  supporting  the  global  effort 
to curb the trade of at-risk, endangered and protected species.

Qualship 21 – Offered by the US Coast Guard, the Qualship 21 
program recognises high-quality ships for their excellent safety 
and antipollution standards and encourages quality operations. 
Most  of  OOCL’s  vessels  calling  the  US  have  already  been 
Qualship 21 certified since 2004.

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Environmental  Data  Verification  –  OOCL  has  been  taking 
a  leadership  role  in  building  our  Environmental,  Social  and 
Governance  (ESG)  profile  to  tackle  a  wider  spectrum  of 
environmental challenges we face across the industry. Verified 
by Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance (LRQA), OOCL adopted 
the  internationally  recognised  and  accepted  Clean  Cargo 
Working Group (CCWG) verification standard to check for the 
carbon dioxide and sulphur oxides emissions of OOCL vessels 
with  high  accuracy  and  transparency.  In  addition  to  our  work 
related  to  vessel  emissions,  OOCL  achieved  a  limited  level  of 
assurance by LRQA for the data published in the Sustainability 
Report  2019  using  the  Global  Reporting  Initiative  (GRI) 
principles.  Upon  verification,  no  material  issue  regarding 
the  stakeholder  inclusivity,  materiality,  responsiveness 
and  reliability  was  identified  in  the  environmental,  social 
responsibility  and  health  &  safety  data  for  the  Sustainability 
Report 2019.

OOCL Honoured with Fuel Efficiency Award – On 23rd June 
2020, OOCL proudly received the Fuel Efficiency Award at the 
Seatrade  Maritime  Awards  Asia  2020  for  its  achievement  in 
fuel savings and efficiency improvements. This annual industry 
event pays tribute to companies with remarkable achievements 
in  various  aspects  of  Asia’s  maritime  industry.  This  year,  the 
award  winners  were  announced  and  virtually  participated  in 
the event via an online celebration.

OOCL Receives Gold Award from the Hong Kong Awards for 
Environmental Excellence for the Fourth Time – OOCL once 
again received the gold trophy in the 2019 Hong Kong Awards 
for  Environmental  Excellence  (HKAEE)  presentation  via  an 
online broadcast on 3rd July 2020. This is the fourth time that 
OOCL received this top honour in the Transport and Logistics 
sector  category.  As  one  of  the  most  coveted  environmental 
awards  in  Hong  Kong,  the  HKAEE  recognises  businesses 
and  organisations  that  showcase  leadership  in  environmental 
excellence and outstanding achievements. The awards program 
also  fosters  benchmarking  of  companies’  green  management 
within  their  respective  sectors  and  encourage  companies  to 
reach  higher  in  their  environmental  performance  and  green 
innovations.

Corporate Responsibility

OOCL  Wins  Corporate  Environmental  Leadership  Gold 
Award for the Second Time – OOCL once again received the 
Gold Award in the service industry sector at the 2019 BOCHK 
Corporate  Environmental  Leadership  Awards  ceremony  on 
5th October 2020. This prestigious awards program recognises 
OOCL’s continuous commitment to promoting environmental 
and low-carbon best practices in the service industry sector in 
Hong Kong and the Pan Pearl River Delta region.

Enhancing  Cetacean  Habitat  and  Observation  (ECHO) 
Program  –  OOCL  participated  in  the  Enhancing  Cetacean 
Habitat  and  Observation  (ECHO)  Program  between  1st  of 
June 2020 the 31st of October 2020 to study how to reduce the 
cumulative  effects  of  shipping  on  at-risk  whales  throughout 
the  southern  coast  of  British  Columbia  in  Canada.  During 
the  20  weeks  period  of  this  Program,  83%  of  our  vessels 
voluntarily  sailed  at  slower  speeds  in  the  research  region. 
OOCL’s  commitment  and  contribution  to  this  Program  was 
an  important  part  of  our  sustainability  work  in  addressing 
the  “SDG  14:  Life  Below  Water”  component  of  marine  life 
protection and conservation.

Our  Vessels  –  The  best  way  to  reduce  harmful  emissions  in 
the shipping industry is to reduce the consumption of fuel. For 
well  over  a  decade  OOCL  implemented  a  fuel  saving  program 
including weather routing systems, slow steaming (addition of 
extra  vessels  on  service  loops  and  travelling  at  slower  speeds), 
minimising  ballast  water  to  help  achieve  a  lighter  vessel  load, 
and  achieving  better  trim  of  ship  draughts  by  good  stowage, 
thereby  burning  less  fuel.  By  taking  these  measures,  we  have 
reduced  our  CO2  emissions  by  more  than  55%  since  2004.  In 
addition  to  reducing  our  emissions,  we  are  able  to  help  our 
customers  achieve  a  lower  carbon  footprint  in  their  supply 
chains.

Since  2000,  all  our  vessels  have  been  installed  with 
environment-friendly  NOx-controlled  propulsive  engines 
while  advanced  slide  fuel  injection  valves  are  adopted  to  help 
reduce  NOx  emissions  by  30%.  All  our  new  buildings  since 
2011  are  also  equipped  with  Alternative  Maritime  Power 
(AMP)  Systems,  also  known  as  “Cold  Ironing”,  which  allows 
the  vessel  to  use  shore  supplied  electricity  instead  of  burning 
fuel when at berth. OOCL is fully compliant to the EU, North 
America  and  IMO  mandated  requirements  of  using  0.1%  or 
lower  sulphur  content  fuel  in  all  SOx  Emission  Control  Areas 
(SECA).  We  are  also  compliant  to  the  requirements  of  using 
0.1%  sulphur  content  fuel  when  our  vessels  are  berthed  at 
designated  EU  ports.  We  also  ensure  that  the  sulphur  content 
of our fuel is well below the IMO prescribed standard of 0.5% 
when our vessels sail in the high seas. In 2020, OOCL achieved 
an average sulphur content of 0.47%.

2525

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Responsibility

Our Offices – Our focus is to create and maintain a “paperless 
office”  environment  by  eliminating  the  use  of  faxes  and 
unnecessary  paper  documents.  As  a  business  which  has 
traditionally  relied  on  paper  documentation  with  customers, 
such  as  bills  of  lading  and  invoices,  we  have  successfully 
taken  innovative  measures  to  effectively  reduce  our  paper 
consumption since 2006.

We have implemented a “reduce, re-use and recycle” campaign 
in  all  our  offices  around  the  world,  encouraging  employees 
to  switch  off  computers  after  work,  powering  off  copiers  and 
lights  after  use,  and  to  install  energy  saving  office  equipment, 
such  as  energy  efficient  light  bulbs.  We  also  have  mandatory 
training  for  all  staff  in  safety,  security  and  environmental 
issues,  and  organise  OOCL  Green  Week  every  July  in  offices 
around the world.

Our  Containers  –  Today,  OOCL  only  uses  CFC-free 
refrigerants  for  all  our  refrigerated  (reefer)  containers. 
OOCL’s newest reefer containers have one of the lowest power 
consumption  in  the  industry,  and  we  install  ThermoKing 
“EcoPower”  gensets  for  better  energy  efficiency.  All  our 
containers  have  been  applied  with  tin-free  paint  and 
introduced the use of eco-friendly bamboo floorboards instead 
of using traditional hardwood ones.

The Group’s sustainability and environmentally conscious best 
practices often exceeds legal requirements and general industry 
standards  in  the  countries  where  it  operates.  As  a  responsible 
and  committed  member  of  the  international  community,  the 
Group  will  continually  strive  for  further  improvements  in  all 
aspects of its business.

26

SECURITY
In  a  world  where  global  cargo  security  threats  always  increase 
the  complexities  of  the  international  trade  community,  OOCL 
is strongly committed to the security of our operations against 
possible  compromise  and  to  the  maintenance  of  the  highest 
level  of  compliance  in  security  related  areas.  From  our  offices 
to  ports,  warehouses,  shore  facilities  and  onboard  our  vessels, 
we  work  with  the  responsible  authorities  to  ensure  that  every 
measure  is  in  place  to  maintain  the  highest  commercial  and 
operational  security  standards  possible  at  all  times,  while  all 
employees are educated and regularly updated through security 
training.

The Group’s Corporate Security Policy and internal guidelines 
comply  with  the  US  Customs-Trade  Partnership  Against 
Terrorism  (C-TPAT)  initiative,  EU  Authorised  Economic 
Operator  (AEO)  program,  and  we  actively  work  with  various 
governments  and  authorities  around  the  world  to  counter 
any  act  that  would  impinge  upon  maritime  or  cargo  security. 
Under  our  policy,  we  have  internal  security  checks  to  all  of 
its holdings and our security profile  has  been  validated by the 
US  Customs  and  Border  Protection  agency  through  physical 
checks  of  the  offices  and  facilities  of  the  Group  including 
terminals, warehouses, depots and vessels.

Our  company  meets  the  International  Ship  and  Port  Facility 
Security Code (ISPS Code), which ensures that security threats 
are  detected  and  assessed  while  preventive  measures  are  in 
place  on  our  vessels  and  at  our  port  facilities.  A  designated 
officer  on  each  ship  and  at  each  port  facility  reports  to  the 
Company  Security  Officer  who  oversees  the  security  plans, 
drills  and  training.  With  this  in  place,  all  our  vessels  continue 
to  have  an  exemplary  record  containing  zero  breaches  of 
security  and  clean  detention  records.  In  addition,  to  provide 
world-class  quality  and  secure  information  to  customers 
and  partners,  our  Global  Data  Centre  has  also  achieved  and 
maintained ISO 27001 certification.

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Responsibility

OOCL  has  been  certified  as  a  “Partners  in  Protection”  (PIP) 
carrier by the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) Partners 
in  Protection.  It  is  a  voluntary  program  established  by  the 
CBSA  to  enhance  border  security,  combat  organised  crime 
and  terrorism,  detect  and  prevent  contraband  smuggling,  and 
increase  awareness  of  issues  to  secure  the  flow  of  legitimate 
goods  and  travellers  across  the  US-Canadian  border.  OOCL 
applies anti-piracy measures before our vessels transit through 
High  Risk  Areas  (HRA).  One  of  the  key  measures  is  to 
maintain  a  24-hour,  360-degree  anti-piracy  visual  and  radar 
watch and to deploy additional watch-keepers at the bridge and 
on  deck  while  transiting  the  HRA  to  watch  out  for  suspected 
pirate  vessels.  Physical  measures  are  also  utilised  onboard, 
such as barbed wires, spikes, and night vision binoculars. Close 
communication  is  always  maintained  between  ships  and  our 
Fleet  Management  Department  (FMD)  office.  FMD’s  24-hour 
emergency hotline is always on standby mode in the case of any 
emergency.

Traditionally,  antivirus  and  malware  detection  software  would 
provide  a  boost  to  our  computer  security  by  preventing  our 
computers  from  being  “infected”.  But  as  the  development 
of  the  Internet  is  becoming  more  sophisticated  than  ever, 
signature-based  virus/malware  detection  tools  alone  are  no 
longer sufficient today.

This  is  because  the  “Advanced  Persistent  Threat”  (APT),  a  set 
of  stealthy  and  continuous  computer  hacking  processes  often 
orchestrated  by  attackers  targeting  a  specific  entity  by  taking 
advantage  of  security  loopholes,  is  growing.  APT  has  been 
observed  to  target  organisations  and/or  nations  for  business, 
financial  and/or  political  motives.  “Corporate  Security 
Breaches”,  “Email  Spoofing”,  “Spear  Phishing”  and  “Social 
Media Fraud” are some of the common types of cyber attacks. 
To  boost  our  employee’s  knowledge  and  awareness  of  cyber 
security, new initiatives and programs have been developed to 
ensure everyone takes part in protecting our assets and become 
more  resilient  against  such  threats.  This  includes  an  annual 
cyber  security  training  and  mandatory  test  for  all  employees, 
monthly  knowledge  and  trend  updates,  and  sophisticated 
monitoring and protective systems.

COMMUNITY AND EDUCATION
As  a  responsible  corporate  citizen,  the  Group  recognises 
that  the  societies  in  which  its  employees  live  and  work 
contribute greatly to the Group’s overall success. Care for these 
communities in which it operates is therefore a major corporate 
focus. The Group concentrates its community efforts on charity 
programs  designed  to  provide  well-rounded  youth  education, 
charity  relief  to  the  needy,  and  cultural  entertainment  to  the 
whole community.

OOCL  employees  across  the  world  are  encouraged  to  give 
something back to the communities in which they live through 
charitable  activities  such  as  fundraising  and  volunteering  by 
dedicating their  time and efforts to  help others  in need. Some 
of  the  areas  where  the  charity  donations  were  made  by  the 
Group  and  its  employees  include:  education,  social  services, 
orphanages, elderly homes, schools, children’s hospitals, cancer 
research,  multiple  sclerosis,  and  diabetes  research.  In  addition 
to financial donations, the Group also contributes in kind.

Up  to  31st  December  2020,  a  total  of  fifty  OOCL  vessels 
participated  in  the  Hong  Kong  Voluntary  Observing  Ship 
(HKVOS)  program  organised  by  the  Hong  Kong  Observatory 
(HKO).  The  program  aims  to  gather  important  marine 
climatology  data  to  identify  prevailing  weather  conditions  for 
preparing forecasts and warnings to the maritime community.

To recognise our outstanding efforts to help improve maritime 
safety  in  2019,  the  HKO  presented  the  “Diamond  Award”  to 
our  vessel OOCL Canada,  two  “Platinum  Award”  to  vessel 
OOCL Charleston  and OOCL Tokyo,  and  also  four  “Gold 
Award”  to  vessels OOCL Australia, OOCL Beijing, OOCL 
Chongqing  and OOCL Memphis  on  4th  December  2020  via 
video  conferencing.  In  addition,  two  OOCL  vessels,  namely 
OOCL Busan  and OOCL Jakarta  had  been  presented  the 
certificate  of  appreciation  for  their  assistance  in  deploying 
five drifting buoys in the western North Pacific and the South 
China  Sea  in  2019  to  enhance  ocean  observation  during  the 
typhoon season.

2727

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Responsibility

KEY RELATIONSHIPS WITH CUSTOMERS 
AND SUPPLIERS
“Customer  focus”  is  one  of  the  core  values  of  the  Group.  We 
believe  in  long-term,  mutually  beneficial  relationships  with 
our customers and strive to help create value for our customers 
through  collaboration  to  enhance  customer  competitiveness. 
This  is  achieved  by  seeing  things  from  the  customer’s 
perspective, trying to understand their business and anticipate 
their requirements. All employees are trained to be proactive in 
meeting  customers’  expectations  and  responding  with  a  sense 
of urgency.

“We  Take  It  Personally”  is  not  just  a  slogan  at  OOCL,  but 
also  an  attitude  that  all  employees  are  encouraged  to  adopt  in 
dealing  with  our  customers.  Each  year  we  recognise  hundreds 
of  employees  around  the  world  for  displaying  initiative  and 
going beyond the call of duty to meet our customers’ needs.

It is the Group’s policy to maintain a diversified customer base 
across  all  geographical  regions  and  trade  lanes.  A  Key  Risk 
Indicator  (KRI)  of  customer  concentration  was  developed  in 
the year 2017 and is included in the functional risk dashboards 
for  the  Group’s  liner  and  logistics  businesses  which  are  being 
monitored  on  a  quarterly  basis.  Different  tolerance  limits  for 
the  KRI  are  set  for  regions,  trades  and  the  organisation  as  a 
whole. As at the end of 2020, OOCL had approximately 28,589 
active  customers  and  the  customer  concentration  was  at  an 
acceptable level.

28

In  the  Group’s  relationship  with  suppliers,  we  put  special 
emphasis  on  the  supplier  selection  process  in  which  both 
quantitative  and  qualitative  factors  are  considered  objectively, 
independently  and  openly,  according  to  the  Group’s  highest 
ethical  standards.  Pricing  is  not  the  Group’s  primar y 
consideration;  instead,  the  Group  focuses  its  attention  on 
the  suppliers’  quality  service,  safety  and  ethical  standards. 
“Excellence  through  quality”  is  another  core  value  of  the 
Group. While we endeavour to provide the best quality service 
to  our  customers  by  setting  high  standards  for  ourselves,  we 
demand the same high standards from our suppliers. It is also 
the  Group’s  policy  to  maintain  a  diversified  supplier  base 
across all geographical regions.

In  2017,  the  Group  developed  supplier  management  KRIs 
to  monitor  supplier  concentration  in  different  regions  and 
poor  supplier  services.  Cases  of  supplier  service  failure  were 
shared  among  employees  to  alert  them  to  the  importance  of 
communicating  our  expectations  to  the  suppliers  and  taking 
the  right  remedial  mitigating  actions.  As  at  the  end  of  2020, 
OOCL  had  approximately  20,856  active  suppliers  and  the 
supplier concentration was at an acceptable level.

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020EMPLOYEE INFORMATION
As  a  responsible  corporate  citizen  employing  the  highest 
standards  of  business  ethics  in  all  that  it  does,  the  Group 
understands  that  the  process  begins  with  the  well  treatment 
of  its  employees.  As  a  successful  corporation,  the  Group 
appreciates  that  its  success,  growth  and  performance  are 
attributable  to  the  skills,  dedication  and  teamwork  of  its 
employees. It regards people as its greatest asset and takes good 
care of them.

In  the  spirit  of  mutual  respect,  the  Group  is  an  equal 
opportunity  employer  with  a  clearly  defined  policy,  covering 
areas  such  as  treating  all  employees  with  fairness  and  dignity, 
promoting  the  corporate  culture  of  encouraging  open  and 
frank  communication  throughout  the  organisation,  investing 
in  its  employees  and  caring  for  their  hopes  and  aspirations 
through  people  development  programs  and  education,  as  well 
as recognising their efforts and achievements.

People  development  remains  a  cornerstone  of  the  corporate 
culture  and  enables  the  effective  operation  of  the  Group’s 
career  development  policy  through  recruitment  and  internal 
promotion.  The  Group  has  channelled  a  great  deal  of  time 
and  effort  into  its  various  people  development  programs  in 
practical  and  experiential  environments  through  job  rotation, 
local  and  overseas  job  assignments,  formal  and  informal 
learning  and  development  opportunities  and  sponsorships  for 
performance enhancement building capacities of employees in 
support  of  their  growth  with  the  Group.  To  further  enhance 
practical training and better HQ/Regional cooperation, efforts 
have been made to initiate more short term cross regional job 
rotations.

The  Group  employs  an  innovative  approach  to  internal 
communications,  employee  learning  and  people  development. 
The  Group  provides  support  to  its  employees  to  help  them 
deliver what customers need and unleash their potential. Since 
2010,  the  Group  has  utilised  its  intranet,  called  “InfoNet”,  as 
a  one-stop  shop  platform  for  dissemination  of  company  news 
and  business  updates  while  providing  its  employees  with  a 
tool  to  share  knowledge,  exchange  views  and  formulate  ideas. 
In  2011,  the  Group  adopted  a  wide  range  of  enterprise  level 
collaboration  tools.  In  addition  to  conventional  methods  of 
communication such as email, other tools such as OOCL Wiki, 
have become very effective in the global sharing of information 
and  knowledge  as  well  as  facilitating  collaboration  amongst 
colleagues  around  the  world.  They  also  helped  support 
accelerated learning by providing us with the means to leverage 
resources,  ideas  and hence solutions.  Since  2016,  we  have  also 
implemented  the  use  of  the  Microsoft  Office  365  cloud-based 
information platform to further our internal communication.

Corporate Responsibility

As  at  31st  December  2020,  the  Group  had  10,552  full-time 
employees.  Their  salary  and  benefit  levels  are  maintained  at 
competitive  levels.  Employees  are  rewarded  on  a  performance 
related  basis  within  the  general  policy  and  framework  of 
the  Group’s  salary  and  bonus  schemes  which  are  regularly 
reviewed.  Other  benefits  including  medical  insurance  and 
pension  funds  are  also  provided,  and  social  and  recreational 
activities are organised around the world.

In  the  interest  of  adhering  to  the  highest  ethical  standards  on 
an ongoing basis, the Group has formulated a Code of Conduct 
which serves as a guideline to ensure compliance with all local, 
national and international legal standards. It helps to preclude 
any  offences  under  local,  national  and  international  laws, 
breaches  of  confidentiality  and  non-disclosure  requirements, 
intellectual property rights infringement, as well as conflicts of 
interest,  acts  of  bribery,  corruption  or  political  contribution, 
and  any  other  corporate  misconduct.  The  Group  has  set  up 
procedures  to  identify,  manage  and  control  risks  that  may 
have  an  impact  on  the  business  of  the  Group.  Established 
in  2006,  the  Group’s  “Whistle  Blower  Policy”  is  one  of  the 
Group’s  formalised  procedures  through  which  employees  can 
anonymously  file  reports  or  register  concerns  and  governs 
the  reporting  and  investigation  of  allegations  to  suspected 
improper activities.

The  Group  is  an  equal  opportunity  employer  with  policies 
not  to  discriminate  against  any  employee  or  applicant  for 
employment  on  the  grounds  of  race,  colour,  religion,  creed, 
age,  sex,  disability,  pregnancy,  childbirth  and  related  medical 
condition,  marital  status,  sexual  orientation,  veteran  status 
and  any  other  category  as  guided  by  local  laws  and  legal 
regulations.

2929

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Financial Review

Financial Review

Revenue for 2020 was US$1,312.6 million better than that 
of 2019, representing an increase of 19%.

30

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Financial Review

Analysis of Consolidated Profit and Loss Account

Summary of Group Results

US$’000

2020

2019

Change

Operating revenue by activity:

Container Transport and Logistics

Other Activities

8,164,201

27,103

6,851,974

26,766

1,312,227

337

Group operating revenue

8,191,304

6,878,740

1,312,564

Operating profit/(loss) by activity:

Container Transport and Logistics

Other Activities

Group operating profit

Finance costs

Share of profits of joint ventures and  

992,628

(441)

992,187

(91,312)

279,281

82,000

361,281

(151,599)

713,347

(82,441)

630,906

60,287

Favourable/

(unfavourable)

 %

19%

1% 

19%

255%

N/M

175%

40%

associated companies

12,799

14,144

(1,345)

(10%)

Profit before taxation

Taxation

913,674

(10,656)

223,826

(69,839)

Profit for the year from continuing operations

903,018

153,987

Profit from discontinued operation 

689,848

59,183

749,031

 (excluding profit on disposal of LBCT)

–

41,172

(41,172)

Profit from operations

Profit on disposal of LBCT

903,018

–

195,159

1,153,634

707,859

(1,153,634)

308%

85%

486%

N/M

363%

N/M

Profit for the year

903,018

1,348,793

(445,775)

(33%)

Revenue  for  2020  was  US$1,312.6  million  better  than  that  of  2019,  representing  an  increase  of  19%.  This  increase  in  revenue  is 
attributed to an increase in both higher freight rates and liftings for the core Container Transport and Logistics business. Other 
revenue, amounting to less than 1% of the Group’s revenue for both 2020 and 2019, represented rental income from the Group’s 
investment property, Wall Street Plaza, in New York.

3131

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Container Transport and Logistics

Summary of Operating Results

US$’000

Liftings (TEUs)

Revenue per TEU (US$)

Operating revenue by location from  

continuing operations:
Asia/Australia
North America
Europe

2020

2019

7,461,941

6,954,142

1,000

902

6,224,940
725,889
1,213,372

5,120,052
688,217
1,043,705

6,851,974

Operating revenue from continuing operations

8,164,201

Operating costs by items from  

continuing operations:
Cargo costs
Bunker costs
Vessel and voyage costs (excluding Bunker)
Equipment and repositioning costs

(3,754,943)
(712,878)
(1,332,368)
(785,225)

(3,270,251)
(839,115)
(1,207,429)
(736,833)

Operating costs from continuing operations

(6,585,414)

(6,053,628)

Gross profit
Business and administrative expenses
Others

1,578,787
(636,093)
49,934

Operating profit from continuing operations

992,628

798,346
(556,993)
37,928

279,281

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

7%

11%

22%
5%
16%

19%

(15%)
15%
(10%)
(7%)

(9%)

98%
(14%)
32%

255%

Change

507,799

98

1,104,888
37,672
169,667

1,312,227

(484,692)
126,237
(124,939)
(48,392)

(531,786)

780,441
(79,100)
12,006

713,347

The Container Transport and Logistics business trades under the “OOCL” name and represents the principal revenue contributor 
to the Group, accounting for over 99% of the Group’s revenue in 2020. Container Transport and Logistics will continue to be the 
core business of the Group in which the majority of the Group’s operating assets will be deployed.

Operating Revenue of Container Transport and Logistics

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

%
5
7

%
6
7

%
5
1

%
0
1

2019

%
5
1

%
9

2020

Asia/Australia

North America

Europe

32

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Asia/Australia

Overall revenue from the Asia/Australia area increased by 22% from US$5,120.1 million in 2019 to US$6,224.9 million in 2020. 

Liftings improved by 6% and as a result, revenue per TEU is improved by 17%.

The  revenues  of  the  Trans-Pacific  eastbound  services  increased  by  25%.  With  a  6%  increase  in  liftings,  the  revenue  per  TEU 

increased  by  18%.  The  westbound  legs  of  the  Asia/Northern  Europe  services  recorded  a  27%  growth  in  revenues,  7%  growth 

in  volumes  which  meant  a  19%  growth  in  freight  rates.  Intra-Asia  achieved  a  13%  increase  in  revenues  rise  with  a  2%  increase 

in  liftings,  resulting  in  a  10%  increase  in  rates.  Revenues  of  the  Australia  and  New  Zealand  services  increased  by  25%,  volumes 

improved by 7% and a 18% increase in rates.

North America

Overall  revenue  in  2020  increased  by  5%  when  compared  to  2019.  There  was  an  increase  of  18%  in  liftings  and  a  10%  drop  in 

freight rates on overall level.

Westbound  liftings  of  the  North  America  West  Coast/Asia  service  and  the  US  East  Coast/Asia  service  via  the  Panama  Canal 

increased  by  17%  compared  with  last  year.  Revenues  rose  by  4%,  and  so  there  was  a  11%  drop  in  freight  rates.  The  eastbound 

Canada/Northern  Europe  and  US  East  Coast/Northern  Europe  services  recorded  a  slight  2%  increase  in  volumes,  but  revenues 

dropped by 12%.

Europe

Overall  revenue  for  this  area  was  up  by  16%,  with  overall  liftings  increased  by  8%  and  the  average  revenue  per  TEU  being  9% 

higher than last year. The eastbound leg of the Northern Europe/Asia services recorded a 37% increase in revenue compared to 

2019, with liftings increased by 4% and freight rates increased by 31%. The westbound trades of the Trans-Atlantic routes showed 

a  2%  increase  in  revenue,  and  liftings  increased  by  15%.  Intra-Europe  market  liftings  grew  by  4%  and  managed  to  have  a  2% 

growth in revenue.

3333

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Financial Review

Revenue per TEU by Services

US$
 1,600

 1,400

 1,200

 1,000

 800

 600

 400

Q1 2019

Q2 2019

Q3 2019

Q4 2019

Q1 2020

Q2 2020

Q3 2020

Q4 2020

Trans-Pacific

Asia/Europe

Trans-Atlantic

Intra-Asia/Australia

All Trades

Operating Costs

The principal operating costs of the container transport business, including cargo costs, vessel costs, voyage costs, equipment and 
repositioning costs, increased from 2019 mainly as a result of higher liftings and the surge in cargo, vessel, voyage, equipment and 
repositioning costs.

Cargo  costs  mainly  consist  of  terminal  charges,  inland  transportation  costs,  commission  and  brokerage,  cargo  assessment  and 
freight tax, all of which are largely paid in the local currencies of the areas in which the activities take place. Cargo cost increased 
by  15%  against  2019  level.  In  addition  to  business  volume  growth,  the  increase  was  mainly  due  to  provision  made  for  the 
commitment in relation to a long-term terminal service agreement in 2020.

Voyage costs comprise mainly bunker costs, port charges, canal dues, cargo claims and insurance. Bunker costs decreased from an 
average of US$442 per ton in 2019 to an average of US$378 per ton in 2020, resulting in a decrease in bunker costs by 15% for the 
year.

Vessel costs include the operating costs and depreciation charges relating to the OOCL fleet as well as the charter hire and slot hire 
expenses incurred in order to maintain the scheduled service levels. The total operating capacity (excluding chartered-out vessels) 
grew from 733,580 TEU as at the end of 2019 to 781,779 TEU at the year end in 2020 as the total number of vessels operated by 
OOCL, both owned and chartered-in, increased from 104 to 113.

During 2020, the increase in vessel and voyage costs was mainly due to the increase in charter hire and slot hire expenses to cope 
with the volume growth and for the expansion of services. As a result, total vessel and voyage costs, other than bunker costs, for 
2020 increased by 10% as compared with 2019.

Equipment  costs  mainly  represent  maintenance  and  repair  costs,  rental  payments,  depot  expenses  and  depreciation  charges 
relating to the fleet of containers equipment, while repositioning costs arise mainly from the relocation of empty containers from 
areas  of  low  activity  to  high  demand  regions.  The  total  equipment  and  repositioning  costs  increased  by  7%,  mainly  due  to  the 
increase in equipment rental and depreciation expenses as a result of the increase in container fleet size to cope with higher liftings 
and the expansion of services.

34

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Financial Review

2020

12%

Operating costs

2019

12%

20%

20%

57%

54%

11%

14%

Cargo costs

Bunker costs

Vessel and voyage costs
(excluding bunker)

Equipment and 
repositioning costs

Business and Administrative Expenses

Business  and  administrative  expenses  largely  comprise  staff  costs,  office  expenses,  selling  and  marketing  costs,  professional  and 
information  system  expenses.  Business  and  administrative  expenses  increased  by  US$79.1  million,  or  14%  when  compared  with 
2019 which was mainly attributable to the increase in staff cost.

Others

Others  comprising  principally  net  foreign  exchange  differences,  net  gain  or  loss  on  the  disposal  of  assets,  interest  income  from 
banks, net impairment losses on financial assets and other non-operating gains/losses. Net income for 2020 increased by US$12.0 
million when compared with 2019 mainly due to increase in interest income from banks and exchange gain.

3535

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Financial Review

Other Activities

Summary of Operating Results

US$’000

Rental income
Operating costs

Gross profit
Investment income
Interest income
Income from investment in Hui Xian
Fair value loss on investment property
Others

Operating (loss)/profit

2020

27,103
(16,707)

10,396
12,258
13,057
2,672
(30,492)
(8,332)

(441)

2019

26,766
(15,573)

11,193
40,959
26,838
9,143
(703)
(5,430)

82,000

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

1%
(7%)

(7%)
(70%)
(51%)
(71%)
(4237%)
(53%)

N/M

Change

337
(1,134)

(797)
(28,701)
(13,781)
(6,471)
(29,789)
(2,902)

(82,441)

The  Group  owns  an  approximately  600,000  sq  ft  office  and  commercial  property,  Wall  Street  Plaza,  located  at  88  Pine  Street, 
New  York,  USA,  an  area  popularly  referred  to  as  the  “Wall  Street  area”.  The  building  was  constructed  in  1972  and  is  operated 
as  a  multi-tenanted  building.  Approximately  8,656  sq  ft  is  occupied  by  Group  companies.  The  Group  also  invests  funds  surplus 
to operations in cash and bank deposit and, on a longer term basis, in equity and bond portfolios. The Group also owns certain 
interests in Hui Xian Holdings Ltd and Hui Xian REIT.

The operating profit from Other Activities for 2020 was US$82.4 million lower than that of 2019 mainly as a result of reduction in 
investment income, interest income and fair value loss on investment property.

Rental Income

Rental income from Wall Street Plaza was US$0.3 million higher than that of last year, with an occupancy rate of 83% as at the end 
of 2020.

Investment Income

Investment  activities  recorded  a  profit  of  US$12.3  million  for  the  year  compared  with  US$41.0  million  in  2019.  Interest  income 
from bond investments amounted to US$11.9 million for 2020 which was US$9.3 million lower than last year. Fair value gain of 
US$0.1 million was recorded in 2020 as compared with a net gain of US$16.9 million for 2019.

US$’000

25,000

20,000

15,000

10,000

5,000

0

Investment Income By Activities

0
7
1
,
1
2

5
7
8
,
1
1

8
2
1
,
9
1

8
6

1
6
6

5
1
3

Interest income from
investments

Impairment,
fair value and
disposal gain/(loss)

2019

2020

Dividend income

36

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Interest Income

Interest income in 2020 was US$13.8 million less than that of 2019 as a result of decreasing interest rates.

Income from Investment in Hui Xian

Hui Xian Holdings Ltd declared and paid cash dividends in 2020, of which the Group shared a total of US$7.9 million. The Group 
also  received  US$0.5  million  distribution  from  its  holdings  of  Hui  Xian  REIT  to  add  up  a  total  of  US$8.4  million  income  from 
investment in Hui Xian. In 2019, US$7.9 million cash dividends from Hui Xian Holdings Ltd and a US$1.1 million distribution 
from Hui Xian REIT were received. In addition, fair value loss on investment in Hui Xian REIT accounted for the drop in income 
from investment in Hui Xian in 2020.

Fair Value Loss on Investment Property

As at 31st December 2020, the Group’s investment property, Wall Street Plaza, was valued at US$280.0 million by an independent 
valuer, down from the US$310.0 million as at 31 December 2019. Taking into consideration of the US$0.5 million capital outlays, 
the net loss in fair value for 2020 was therefore US$30.5 million. In 2019, the property recorded no valuation change.

Others

Other  items  include  business  and  administration  expenses  for  property  management,  exchange  differences  and  other 
miscellaneous items.

Finance Costs

The  Group  incurs  interest  expenses  on  bank  loans  and  lease  liabilities.  These  long-term  borrowings  are  mostly  secured  against 
vessels and containers owned by the Group. Finance costs also include fees on lease administration.

Finance  costs  decreased  by  US$60.3  million  as  compared  with  2019,  mainly  due  to  the  decrease  in  long-term  borrowings  and 
interest rate.

Share of Profits of Joint Ventures and Associated Companies

Share  of  profits  of  joint  ventures  and  associated  companies  mainly  represents  the  Group’s  investments  in  a  20%  stake  in  two 
terminals  in  Tianjin  and  Ningbo.  Other  investments  include  investments  in  depot,  agency  and  supply  chain  management 
company. The share of US$12.8 million profit from joint ventures and associated companies in 2020 was US$1.3 million less than 
that of 2019.

Profit before Taxation

Pre-tax  profit  for  the  year  was  US$913.7  million  compared  with  last  year  of  US$223.8  million.  There  was  US$713.3  million 
increase  in  operating  profit  by  the  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  segment  whereas  the  Other  Activities  segment  recorded 
operating  loss  of  US$0.4  million.  The  increase  in  earnings  in  The  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  segment  coupled  with  the 
decrease in finance costs offset the loss in Other Activities, resulting in the significant increase in the Group’s earnings in 2020.

Earnings before Interest and Tax

EBIT increased from US$452.3 million in 2019 to US$1,005.0 million in 2020 and EBIT margin improved from 6.5% in 2019 to 
12.3% in 2020. The improvement in freight rates and decreased bunker costs, coupled with the lifting growth helped offsetting the 
negative impact from rising cargo, vessel and voyage costs, leading to increased profitability for the Group in 2020.

3737

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Financial Review

Capital Expenditure

US$’000

Container vessels and capitalised dry-docking costs

Assets under construction

Containers and chassis

Terminal equipment and improvement

Terminal leases

Land and buildings

Computer software

Investment property

Others

2020

34,766

189,297

172,259

–

–

35,752

9,466

492

59,894

2019

24,590

–

216,469

17,157

582

59,254

21,831

703

46,606

Change

10,176

189,297

(44,210)

(17,157)

(582)

(23,502)

(12,365)

(211)

13,288

501,926

387,192

114,734

Increase/

(decrease)

 %

41%

N/M

(20%)

N/M

N/M

(40%)

(57%)

(30%)

29%

30%

Capital  expenditure  increased  from  US$387.2  million  in  2019  to  US$501.9  million  in  2020,  mainly  due  to  the  increase  in  assets 
under construction for the construction of twelve units of 23,000 TEU container vessels.

Vessels

On 10th March 2020, the Group entered into contracts to construct five units of 23,000 TEU container vessels at a consideration 
of US$778.4 million. Further on 30th October 2020, the Group entered into contracts to construct another seven units of 23,000 
TEU container vessels for an aggregate consideration of US$1,103.88 million. The vessels are expected to be delivered from 2023.

38

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Review of Consolidated Balance Sheet

Summary of Consolidated Balance Sheet

US$’000
Property, plant and equipment
Right-of-use assets
Investment property
Joint ventures and associated companies
Intangible assets
Liquid assets
Cash and bank balances set aside for special dividend 

payment

Accounts receivable and other assets
Other non-current assets

TOTAL ASSETS
Accounts payable and other liabilities
Dividend payable
Current taxation

TOTAL ASSETS LESS TRADING LIABILITIES
Long-term borrowings
Current portion of long-term borrowings
Lease liabilities

Total debt
Deferred liabilities
Non-controlling interests
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

CAPITAL EMPLOYED
Debt to equity ratio
Net (cash)/debt to equity ratio
Accounts payable as a % of revenue
Accounts receivable as a % of revenue
% return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
% return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity  

(excluding profit on disposal of LBCT)
Net asset value per ordinary share (US$)
Liquid assets per ordinary share (US$)
Share price at 31st December (US$)
Price to book ratio based on share price  

at 31st December

2020

3,744,666
2,303,265
280,000
154,835
18,856
3,323,013

–
792,319
27,599

2019

3,162,424
2,830,674
310,000
147,828
30,824
2,858,824

1,001,269
805,568
54,454

10,644,553
(1,387,711)
–
(37,392)

11,201,865
(1,072,605)
(1,001,269)
(47,522)

9,219,450
820,325
213,270
2,036,248

3,069,843
507,113
380
5,642,114

9,219,450
0.54
(0.04)
16.94
8.32
17.08

17.08
9.02
5.31
9.94

1.10

9,080,469
1,033,141
394,996
2,562,952

3,991,089
161,973
–
4,927,407

9,080,469
0.81
0.23
15.59
9.71
27.92

4.04
7.87
4.57
4.85

0.62

Financial Review

Change

582,242
(527,409)
(30,000)
7,007
(11,968)
464,189

(1,001,269)
(13,249)
(26,855)

(557,312)
(315,106)
1,001,269
10,130

138,981
(212,816)
(181,726)
(526,704)

(921,246)
345,140
380
714,707

138,981

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

18%
(19%)
(10%)
5%
(39%)
16%

N/M
(2%)
(49%)

(5%)
29%
N/M
(21%)

2%
(21%)
(46%)
(21%)

(23%)
213%
N/M
15%

2%

3939

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Property, Plant and Equipment and Right-of-Use Assets

US$’000

Container vessels and capitalised dry-docking costs
Containers and chassis
Terminal equipment and improvement
Terminal leases
Land and buildings
Assets under construction
Others

2020

3,906,583
1,655,383
18,347
15,082
159,876
189,297
103,363

2019

4,129,481
1,587,991
23,432
18,708
161,161
–
72,325

Change

(222,898)
67,392
(5,085)
(3,626)
(1,285)
189,297
31,038

6,047,931

5,993,098

54,833

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(5%)
4%
(22%)
(19%)
(1%)
N/M
43%

1%

Container Transport and Logistics remains the core business of the Group and the one in which majority of property, plant and 
equipment and right-of-use assets are deployed. These assets largely comprise container vessels, containers, terminal equipment, 
property and computer equipment.

The  increase  in  property,  plant  and  equipment  and  right-of-use  assets  in  2020  was  mainly  due  to  the  addition  of  assets  under 
construction for the construction of twelve units of 23,000 TEU container vessels.

Investment Property

Investment  property  represents  the  Group’s  commercial  building,  Wall  Street  Plaza,  in  New  York.  The  building  was  valued  at 
US$280.0 million as at the end of 2020 by an independent valuer (2019: US$310.0 million).

Joint Ventures and Associated Companies

US$’000

Joint ventures
Associated companies

2020

9,848
144,987

154,835

2019

10,163
137,665

147,828

Change

(315)
7,322

7,007

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(3%)
5%

5%

The decrease in the investment value in joint ventures is due to one of the joint ventures became the Group’s subsidiary during the 
year and the increase in associated companies for 2020 was mainly a result of the appreciation of Renminbi.

Liquid Assets

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities
Cash and portfolio funds
Investments at amortised cost
Less: cash and bank balances set aside for  
special dividend payment

2020

2,079,581
8,868
1,087,152
147,412

2019

2,652,851
18,245
997,691
191,306

Change

(573,270)
(9,377)
89,461
(43,894)

–

(1,001,269)

1,001,269

Total liquid assets

3,323,013

2,858,824

464,189

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(22%)
(51%)
9%
(23%)

N/M

16%

40

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

The  Group  adopts  a  central  treasury  system  under  which  a  part  of  the  funds  surplus  to  planned  requirements  is  set  aside  for 
portfolio investments in fixed income bonds or equities managed by in-house managers under guidelines imposed by the Board.

The Group’s investment portfolios are largely invested in US dollar bonds, short-term cash deposits or similar instruments, and 
listed equities. No investments are made in derivative investment products.

Investments at amortised cost are entirely bonds intended to be held until maturity.

The Group’s total liquid assets at the end of 2019 and 2020 are further analysed as follows:

US$’000

Cash and bank balances
Restricted bank balances
Portfolio investments
Investments at amortised cost
Less: cash and bank balances set aside for  
special dividend payment

2020

3,072,795
2,246
100,560
147,412

2019

3,455,570
60,294
152,923
191,306

Change

(382,775)
(58,048)
(52,363)
(43,894)

–

(1,001,269)

1,001,269

Total liquid assets

3,323,013

2,858,824

464,189

Accounts Receivable and Other Assets

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities

2020

763,169
29,150

792,319

2019

764,731
40,837

805,568

Change

(1,562)
(11,687)

(13,249)

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(11%)
(96%)
(34%)
(23%)

N/M

16%

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(0%)
(29%)

(2%)

Accounts  receivable  and  other  assets  for  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  slightly  decreased  by  US$1.6  million  to  US$763.2 
million at the end of 2020, mainly due to the decrease in bunker balance in 2020.

Ageing Analysis of Trade Receivables

2020

2%

2019

3%

20%

21%

78%

76%

Below 1 month

2-3 months

Over 3 months

4141

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Accounts Payable and Other Liabilities

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities

2020

1,380,450
7,261

2019

1,065,256
7,349

Change

315,194
(88)

1,387,711

1,072,605

315,106

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

30%
(1%)

29%

Accounts payable and other liabilities at the end of 2020 were US$315.1 million higher than that of 2019, mainly due to increase in 
cost provisions to cope with growth in business volume.

Ageing Analysis of Trade Payables

2020

2%

17%

2019

4%

21%

81%

75%

Below 1 month

2-3 months

Over 3 months

Total Debt

US$’000

Bank loans
Lease liabilities

2020

1,033,595
2,036,248

2019

1,428,137
2,562,952

Change

(394,542)
(526,704)

3,069,843

3,991,089

(921,246)

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(28%)
(21%)

(23%)

Total  debt  decreased  by  US$921.2  million  compared  with  2019,  mainly  as  a  result  of  net  repayment  of  bank  loans  and  lease 
liabilities during the year.

Total scheduled debt repayment between 2021 and 2025 is US$2,348.6 million, being equivalent to 77% of the total outstanding 
debt as at 31st December 2020. Details of the repayment profile of the Group’s borrowings and lease liabilities are set out in Notes 
36 and 37 to the Consolidated Financial Statements respectively.

42

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Debt Profile

Of  the  total  US$3,069.8  million  debt  outstanding  at  the  end  of  2020,  US$873.7  million  was  fixed-rate  debt  and  the  remaining 
US$2,196.1  million  was  subject  to  floating  interest  rates  at  various  competitive  spreads  over  one-month  to  six-month  LIBOR 
(or equivalent) and mainly related to the financing of vessels and container equipment. The Group’s average cost of debt at 31st 
December 2020 was 1.9% (2019: 3.1%).

Net (Cash)/Debt to Equity Ratio

This ratio changed from a net debt position at the end of 2019 to a net cash position as at 31 December 2020 mainly because of 
the cash inflow from operations. This ratio will be closely monitored in the light of business forecasts. It is the Group’s objective to 
keep this key ratio below a threshold of 1.0.

Net (Cash)/Debt to Equity Ratio

Ratio
0.50

0.30

0.10

-0.10

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

Shareholders’ Equity

As  at  31st  December  2020,  the  Company  had  625,793,297  shares  in  issue,  consisting  entirely  of  ordinary  shares.  With  profit 
recorded for the year, the Group’s consolidated shareholders’ equity increased by US$714.7 million to US$5,642.1 million as at the 
end of 2020 with a net asset value per ordinary share of US$9.02 (2019: US$7.87). Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity 
is  a  key  measure  for  the  Group’s  objective  to  continuously  enhance  shareholders’  value.  In  2020,  this  ratio  increased  to  17.08% 
(2019: 4.04%, excluding the effect of the one-off profit on disposal of LBCT).

Operating Leases and Commitments

In  addition  to  the  owned  operating  assets  and  long-term  leases,  the  Group  employs  assets  through  short-term  operating  lease 
arrangements  as  detailed  in  Note  40(c)  to  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements.  Assets  under  short-term  operating  lease 
arrangements consist primarily of container vessels.

As  at  the  end  of  2020,  the  Group  had  outstanding  capital  commitments  amounting  to  US$1,706.0  million,  representing  mostly 
construction of twelve units of 23,000 TEU container vessels.

4343

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Financial Review

Analysis of Change in Liquid Assets

US$’000

Net inflow from operations

Other inflow:

Interest and investment income
Sale of property, plant and equipment
New financing
Cash from joint ventures and associated companies
Fair value gain on financial assets at  
fair value through profit or loss

Disposal of subsidiaries
Acquisition of subsidiaries
Others

Other outflow:

Interest and financing charges paid
Dividends paid to shareholders
Taxation paid
Increase in property, plant and equipment, 
investments, and non-current assets

Loan repayments
Fair value loss on financial assets at  
fair value through profit or loss

Others

Net inflow
Beginning liquid asset balances
Net change in liquid asset balances of  

disposal group classified as held for sale

Cash and bank balances set aside for  

special dividend payment

Changes in exchange rates

Ending liquid asset balances

Represented by:

Unrestricted bank balances and deposits
Restricted bank balances and deposits
Portfolio investments
Investments at amortised cost
Less: cash and bank balances set aside for  
special dividend payment

44

2020

2,013,606

78,767
18,860
99,550
16,405

–
–
9,646
120

2019

948,131

71,425
26,311
400,455
14,913

17,027
1,709,248
–
–

Change

1,065,475

7,342
(7,451)
(300,905)
1,492

(17,027)
(1,709,248)
9,646
120

223,348

2,239,379

(2,016,031)

(75,640)
(197,625)
(33,232)

(170,123)
(89,859)
(118,404)

(369,476)
(1,100,816)

(208,958)
(1,036,768)

(5,642)
–

–
(2,430)

94,483
(107,766)
85,172

(160,518)
(64,048)

(5,642)
2,430

(1,782,431)

(1,626,542)

(155,889)

454,523
2,858,824

1,560,968
2,246,803

(1,106,445)
612,021

–

53,733

(53,733)

–
9,666

(1,001,269)
(1,411)

1,001,269
11,077

3,323,013

2,858,824

464,189

3,072,795
2,246
100,560
147,412

3,455,570
60,294
152,923
191,306

(382,775)
(58,048)
(52,363)
(43,894)

–

(1,001,269)

1,001,269

3,323,013

2,858,824

464,189

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

112%

10%
(28%)
(75%)
10%

N/M
N/M
N/M
N/M

(90%)

56%
(120%)
72%

(77%)
(6%)

N/M
N/M

(10%)

(71%)
27%

N/M

N/M
N/M

16%

(11%)
(96%)
(34%)
(23%)

N/M

16%

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

A  net  inflow  of  US$454.5  million  was  recorded  in  2020  compared  with  a  net  inflow  of  US$1,561.0  million  in  2019.  Operating 
inflow  of  US$2,013.6  million  for  the  year  was  US$1,065.5  million  higher  than  that  of  2019  with  improved  operating  results. 
Decrease in other inflow was mainly because there was a net proceed of US$1,709.2 million generated from the disposal of the U.S. 
Terminal Business in 2019. In addition, reduction in new financing by US$300.9 million also led to the decrease in other inflow. 
The capital payments in 2020 mainly reflected the outlays for the acquisition of containers and assets under construction. The net 
increase in financing cash outflow was mainly due to the increase in loan repayments during the year. Total liquid asset balances 
increased to US$3,323.0 million at the end of 2020, against US$2,858.8 million in 2019.

Liquidity

As  at  31st  December  2020,  the  Group  had  total  liquid  asset  balances  of  US$3,323.0  million  compared  with  debt  obligations  of 
US$580.4 million repayable in 2021. Total current assets at the end of 2020 amounted to US$3,993.8 million against total current 
liabilities of US$2,005.5 million. The Group’s shareholders’ equity contains no loan capital. The Group from time to time prepares 
and updates cashflow forecasts for asset acquisitions, to serve project development requirements, as well as working capital needs, 
from  time  to  time  with  the  objective  of  maintaining  a  proper  balance  between  a  conservative  liquidity  level  and  an  effective 
investment of surplus funds.

4545

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Board of Directors

Board of Directors

Mr.  Xu  Lirong,  aged  63,  has  been  an  Executive  Director  and  the  Chairman 
of the Board of the Company, and the chairman of the Executive Committee 
and the Nomination Committee of the Company since 3rd August 2018. He 
had been a director, the chairman of the board and a member of the executive 
committee of Orient Overseas Container Line Limited (“OOCLL”), a wholly-
owned  subsidiary  of  the  Company,  from  3rd  August  2018  to  28th  February 
2020.  Mr.  Xu  holds  a  master  degree  in  Business  Administration  from 
Shanghai  Maritime  University  and  is  a  senior  engineer.  Mr.  Xu  is  currently 
the  chairman  of  the  board  and  the  Party  Secretary  of  China  COSCO 
SHIPPING  Corporation  Limited  (“COSCO  SHIPPING”),  and  an  executive 
director and the chairman of the board of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings Co., 
Ltd. (“COSCO SHIPPING Holdings”, a company listed in both Shanghai and 
Hong Kong).

Mr.  Xu  started  his  career  in  March  1975,  and  had  been  the  deputy  head 
of  ship  management  department,  the  assistant  to  the  general  manager, 
the  deputy  general  manager  and  the  general  manager  of  Shanghai  Ocean 
Shipping  Co.,  Ltd.  (“Shanghai  Ocean  Shipping”),  the  deputy  manager,  the 
manager  and  the  Party  Secretary  of  COSCO  Shanghai  Freight  Forwarding 
Company,  the  president  and  the  Party  Secretary  of  Shanghai  Shipping 
Exchange,  the  general  manager,  the  Party  Committee  member  and  the 
Deputy  Party  Secretary  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines  Co.,  Ltd.  (“COSCO 
SHIPPING  Lines”),  the  deputy  general  manager,  the  Party  Committee 
member  and  the  Deputy  Party  Secretary  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings, 
the  vice  president,  the  chairman  of  labour  union  and  the  Party  Committee 
member  of  China  Ocean  Shipping  Company  Limited  (“China  Ocean 
Shipping”), the general manager, the director, the chairman of the board, the 
Party Committee member and the Party Secretary of China Shipping Group 
Company Limited.

Mr.  Huang  Xiaowen,  aged  58,  has  been  an  Executive  Director  and  the  Chief  Executive 
Officer  of  the  Company,  a  member  of  the  Executive  Committee  and  the  chairman  of 
the  Inside  Information  Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company  since  10th 
August  2020.  Mr.  Huang  had  been  in  the  same  positions  from  3rd  August  2018  to  18th 
September 2019. Mr. Huang holds an executive master degree in Business Administration 
from China Europe International Business School and is a senior engineer. He is currently 
the  executive  vice  president  and  a  Party  Committee  member  of  COSCO  SHIPPING,  an 
executive director and the vice chairman of the board of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings (a 
company listed in both Shanghai and Hong Kong).

Mr.  Huang  started  his  career  in  1981  and  had  been  the  section  chief  of  the  container 
shipping  section  of  Guangzhou  Ocean  Shipping  Company  Limited,  the  general  manager 
of  container  transportation  department  of  China  Ocean  Shipping,  the  container 
business  advisor  of  Shanghai  Haixing  Shipping  Co.,  Ltd.,  the  executive  deputy  general 
manager, the managing director, an executive director, the vice chairman and the Deputy 
Party  Secretary  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Development  Co.,  Ltd.  (“COSCO  SHIPPING 
Development”,  a  company  listed  in  both  Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong),  the  chairman  of 
China  Shipping  Haisheng  Co.,  Ltd.,  the  deputy  general  manager  and  a  Party  Committee 
member  of  China  Shipping  Group  Company  Limited,  an  executive  director  and  the  vice 
chairman of the board of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings, a non-executive director and the 
chairman of the board of COSCO SHIPPING Ports Limited (“COSCO SHIPPING Ports”, 
a company listed in Hong Kong) and an executive director and the chairman of the board 
of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Energy  Transportation  Co.,  Ltd.  (“COSCO  SHIPPING  Energy”,  a 
company listed in both Shanghai and Hong Kong). He was the chairman of the board of 
COSCO SHIPPING Lines and the chairman of the board of COSCO SHIPPING Bulk Co., 
Ltd.  and  a  director  of  certain  subsidiaries  of  COSCO  SHIPPING.  Mr.  Huang  has  more 
than 30 years of experience in the shipping industry.

Xu Lirong

Huang Xiaowen

46

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Mr. Yang Zhijian, aged 56, has been an Executive Director of the Company and a member 
of  the  Executive  Committee,  the  Finance  Committee,  the  Compliance  Committee,  the 
Inside  Information  Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company  since  18th 
September  2019.  He  has  been  a  director,  the  co-chief  executive  officer  and  a  member  of 
the  executive  committee  of  OOCLL,  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  the  Company,  since 
18th September 2019. Mr. Yang has been re-designated from the co-chief executive officer 
to  the  chief  executive  officer  of  OOCLL  since  1st  January  2020  and  appointed  as  the 
chairman of the board and the executive committee of OOCLL since 28th February 2020. 
He is also a director of certain principal subsidiaries of the Company. Mr. Yang holds an 
executive  master  degree  in  Business  Administration  from  Shanghai  Maritime  University 
and is an economist. Mr. Yang is currently the employee representative director of COSCO 
SHIPPING, the general manager, the executive director and the Deputy Party Secretary of 
COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  (a  company  listed  in  both  Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong),  the 
general  manager,  the  chairman  of  the  board  and  the  Deputy  Party  Secretary  of  COSCO 
SHIPPING Lines and a director of Faulkner Global Holdings Limited.

Mr. Yang had been the head of ocean transportation division of Shanghai Ocean Shipping, 
the  head  of  corporate  planning  division,  the  deputy  general  manager  of  marketing 
department, the general manager of the trade service division and the general manager of 
the  Asia-Pacific  trade  division  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines,  the  deputy  general  manager 
of  Hong  Kong  Ming  Wah  Shipping  Co.,  Ltd.,  the  general  manager  and  the  Deputy  Party 
Secretary  of  Shanghai  PANASIA  Shipping  Company  Limited,  an  assistant  to  the  general 
manager  and  the  deputy  general  manager  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Logistics  Co.,  Ltd.,  the 
deputy general manager, the general manager and the Deputy Party Secretary of COSCO 
SHIPPING  Bulk  Co.,  Ltd.  Mr.  Yang  has  over  30  years  of  experience  in  the  maritime 
industry and has extensive experience in container shipping, logistics and bulk shipping.

Mr.  Feng  Boming,  aged  51,  has  been  an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company  and 
a  member  of  the  Executive  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee,  the  Inside 
Information  Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company  since  18th  September 
2019.  Mr.  Feng  holds  a  master  degree  in  Business  Administration  from  The  University 
of  Hong  Kong  and  is  an  economist.  Mr.  Feng  is  currently  the  chairman  of  the  board  of 
directors  and  an  executive  director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Ports  (a  company  listed  in 
Hong  Kong),  an  executive  director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  (a  company  listed  in 
both  Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong),  a  non-executive  director  of  Qingdao  Port  International 
Co.,  Ltd.  (a  company  listed  in  both  Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong),  COSCO  SHIPPING 
International  (Hong  Kong)  Co.,  Limited.  (a  company  listed  in  Hong  Kong)  and  Piraeus 
Port  Authority  S.A.  (a  company  listed  in  Athens),  and  a  director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING 
(Hong  Kong)  Co.,  Limited,  COSCO  SHIPPING  Investment  Holdings  Co.,  Ltd.  (formerly 
COSCO  SHIPPING  Financial  Holdings  Co.,  Ltd.),  Hainan  Harbor  &  Shipping  Holding 
Co., Ltd. and certain subsidiaries of COSCO SHIPPING.

Mr.  Feng  had  been  the  general  manager  of  the  strategic  and  corporate  management 
department  of  COSCO  SHIPPING,  the  manager  of  the  commercial  section  of  the 
ministry of trade protection of COSCO SHIPPING Lines, the general manager of COSCO 
Container  Hong  Kong  Mercury  Co.,  Ltd.,  the  general  manager  of  the  management  and 
administration  department  of  COSCO  Holdings  (Hong  Kong)  Limited,  the  general 
manager  of  COSCO  International  Freight  (Wuhan)  Co.,  Ltd.  and  COSCO  Logistics 
(Wuhan)  Co.,  Ltd.,  the  director  of  the  strategic  management  implementation  office 
of  China  Ocean  Shipping  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings,  a  director  of  COSCO 
SHIPPING Bulk Co., Ltd., and a non-executive director of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings, 
COSCO  SHIPPING  Ports,  COSCO  SHIPPING  Energy  and  COSCO  SHIPPING 
Development (both listed in both Shanghai and Hong Kong). Mr. Feng has over 20 years’ 
experience in the shipping industry, and has extensive experience in port management and 
operation, enterprise strategy management, business management, container shipping and 
management.

Board of Directors

Yang Zhijian

Feng Boming

4747

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Board of Directors

Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew

Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew,  aged  56,  has  been  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the 
Company  since  1st  January  2020  and  is  a  member  of  the  Finance  Committee,  the  Inside 
Information Committee and the Risk Committee of the Company. He has been an advisor 
to  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  OOCLL,  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  the  Company, 
since  1st  January  2020.  Mr.  Tung  holds  a  bachelor  degree  from  Princeton  University 
and  a  master  degree  in  Business  Administration  from  Stanford  University  in  the  USA. 
Mr.  Tung  is  currently  Managing  Partner  of  QBN  Management  Limited.  He  is  also  an 
independent non-executive director of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited (a company listed 
in Hong Kong) and Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited. He is also a member 
of the Hong Kong Logistics Development Council and a member of the Chief Executive’s 
Council of Advisers on Innovation and Strategic Development.

Mr.  Tung  was  an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company  from  2nd  November  2011  to  31st 
December 2019. He was a director and a member of the executive committee of OOCLL 
from  March  2006  to  31st  December  2019.  He  was  the  chief  executive  officer  and  senior 
managing  director  of  OOCLL  from  1st  July  2012  to  2nd  August  2018,  and  had  been  re-
designated  as  the  co-chief  executive  officer  of  OOCLL  since  3rd  August  2018  until  31st 
December  2019.  He  was  also  a  director  of  various  subsidiaries  of  the  Company.  Between 
1993 and 1998, he served the Group in various capacities including director of reefer trade 
of OOCLL.

Mr. Yan Jun, aged 53, has been a Non-Executive Director of the Company and a member 
of the Nomination Committee and the Risk Committee of the Company since 3rd August 
2018.  Mr.  Yan  holds  a  master  degree  in  Business  Management  from  Antai  College  of 
Economics  and  Management  of  Shanghai  Jiaotong  University.  Mr.  Yan  is  currently  the 
Deputy  Party  Secretary,  a  director  and  the  president  of  Shanghai  International  Port 
(Group) Co., Ltd. (“SIPG”, a company listed in Shanghai).

Mr. Yan had been a Party Committee member of Shanghai Port Container Terminal Co., 
Ltd (“SPCT”); the Branch Party Secretary and the general manager of SPCT, Waigaoqiao 
Terminal  Branch;  the  Party  Secretary  and  the  general  manager  of  SIPG  Zhendong 
Container  Terminal  Branch;  the  Party  Secretary,  a  director  and  the  general  manager  of 
SIPG  Jiujiang  Port  Co.,  Ltd;  the  assistant  to  president,  the  vice  president  and  the  Deputy 
Party Secretary of SIPG.

 Yan Jun

48

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Ms.  Wang  Dan,  aged  51,  has  been  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  and  a 
member of the Risk Committee of the Company since 3rd August 2018. Ms. Wang holds a 
master degree in International Finance from Tsinghua University PBC School of Finance 
(formerly the Graduate School of the People’s Bank of China).

Ms.  Wang  is  the  executive  vice  president  of  Silk  Road  Fund  Co.,  Ltd.  (“SRF”)  and  a 
director of SIBUR Holding (a public joint stock company in Russia with its bonds traded 
at  Moscow  Exchange  and  Irish  Stock  Exchange).  Ms.  Wang  worked  at  the  international 
department  and  the  monetary  policy  department  II  of  the  People’s  Bank  of  China 
(“PBOC”),  and  also  served  as  an  advisor  to  the  executive  director  for  China  of  PBOC  at 
the  International  Monetary  Fund.  Before  joining  SRF,  she  served  as  the  deputy  director-
general of the monetary policy department II of PBOC.

Mr.  Ip  Sing  Chi,  aged  67,  has  been  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  and  a 
member  of  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company  since  3rd  August  2018.  Mr.  Ip  holds  a 
Bachelor  of  Arts  degree  from  Coventry  University.  He  is  currently  the  group  managing 
director  of  Hutchison  Port  Holdings  Limited  and  the  chairman  of  Yantian  International 
Container Terminals Limited. He is also an executive director of Hutchison Port Holdings 
Management  Pte.  Limited  (the  trustee-manager  of  Hutchison  Port  Holdings  Trust  listed 
in  Singapore),  a  non-executive  director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Development  (a  company 
listed  in  both  Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong),  an  independent  non-executive  director  of 
Piraeus  Port  Authority  S.A.  (a  company  listed  in  Athens),  and  a  non-independent  non-
executive director of Westports Holdings Berhad (a company listed in Malaysia).

Mr. Ip was the founding chairman (in 2000-2001) of the Hong Kong Container Terminal 
Operators  Association  Limited,  and  he  had  been  an  independent  non-executive  director, 
the  chairman  of  the  remuneration  and  appraisal  committee,  a  member  of  the  strategy 
committee  and  the  nomination  committee  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Energy  (a  company 
listed  in  both  Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong).  Mr.  Ip  has  over  40  years  of  experience  in  the 
maritime industry.

Board of Directors

Wang Dan

Ip Sing Chi

4949

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Board of Directors

Cui Hongqin

Ms.  Cui  Hongqin,  aged  47,  has  been  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  and  a 
member of the Risk Committee of the Company since 3rd August 2018. Ms. Cui holds a 
bachelor  degree  in  Economics  from  Shanxi  University  of  Economics  and  Management, 
and  is  a  senior  accountant  and  certified  public  accountant.  She  is  currently  the  deputy 
director  of  the  finance  department  of  State  Development  &  Investment  Corp.,  Ltd. 
(“SDIC”),  the  general  manager  and  chairman  of  the  board  of  Rongshi  International 
Holding Company Limited and SDIC Leasing Co., Ltd., the chairman of the board of SDIC 
Leasing  of  Hainan  Co.,  Ltd.,  the  general  manager  and  director  of  Rongshi  International 
Treasury Management Company Limited, the director of China SDIC International Trade 
Co., Ltd., and a non-independent director of China Water Environment Group Limited.

Ms. Cui held various positions in SDIC, including assistant to the director of the finance 
and  accounts  department,  head  of  the  funds  department,  the  deputy  director  and  the 
business  head  of  the  accounts  department,  and  the  senior  business  manager  of  the 
planning and finance department.

Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  aged  73,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director 
of  the  Company  since  2nd  January  2015.  He  is  the  chairman  of  the  Audit  Committee 
and  the  Remuneration  Committee  and  a  member  of  the  Nomination  Committee,  the 
Finance  Committee,  the  Share  Committee,  the  Risk  Committee  and  the  Independent 
Board  Committee  of  the  Company.  He  was  an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company  from 
1st December 2003 to 30th June 2012, a Non-Executive Director of the Company from 1st 
July 2012 to 1st January 2015 and a consultant of the Company from 1st July 2012 to 31st 
December 2014. Mr. Chow holds  a Bachelor of  Science degree in  Chemistry and Physics 
from the University of Hong Kong and a master degree in Business Administration from 
the  Chinese  University  of  Hong  Kong.  He  did  not  hold  directorships  in  any  other  public 
companies listed in Hong Kong and overseas in the last three years.

Chow Philip Yiu Wah

50

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Dr.  Chung  Shui  Ming  Timpson, GBS, JP,  aged  69,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-
Executive  Director  of  the  Company  and  the  chairman  of  the  Finance  Committee  and  a 
member  of  the  Audit  Committee  and  the  Nomination  Committee  of  the  Company  since 
3rd  August  2018.  Dr.  Chung  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Science  degree  from  the  University  of 
Hong  Kong,  a  master  degree  in  Business  Administration  from  the  Chinese  University  of 
Hong  Kong  and  a  honorary  doctoral  degree  in  Social  Sciences  from  the  City  University 
of  Hong  Kong.  He  is  a  fellow  member  of  The  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified  Public 
Accountants.

Dr.  Chung  is  currently  an  independent  non-executive  director  of  China  Everbright 
Limited,  China  Overseas  Grand  Oceans  Group  Limited,  China  Unicom  (Hong  Kong) 
Limited,  Glorious  Sun  Enterprises  Limited,  Miramar  Hotel  and  Investment  Company, 
Limited (all companies are listed in Hong Kong); and China Railway Group Limited and 
Postal  Savings  Bank  of  China  Co.,  Ltd.  (companies  listed  in  both  Shanghai  and  Hong 
Kong); and an external director of COSCO SHIPPING.

Dr.  Chung  had  been  an  audit  supervisor  I  of  Coopers  &  Lybrand,  an  independent 
non-executive  director  of  China  Construction  Bank  Corporation  (a  company  listed  in 
both  Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong),  an  independent  director  of  China  State  Construction 
Engineering  Corporation  Limited  (a  company  listed  in  Shanghai),  an  independent  non-
executive  director  of  Henderson  Land  Development  Company  Limited  and  Jinmao 
Hotel and Jinmao (China) Hotel Investments and Management Limited (both companies 
are  listed  in  Hong  Kong),  the  chairman  of  China  business  of  Jardine  Fleming  Holdings 
Limited and the deputy chief executive officer of BOC International Limited.

Dr. Chung is currently a member of the 13th National Committee of the Chinese People’s 
Political  Consultative  Conference  and  a  pro-chancellor  of  the  City  University  of  Hong 
Kong.  He  had  also  served  many  public  organisations,  including  the  chairman  of  the 
Council  of  the  City  University  of  Hong  Kong,  the  chairman  of  the  Hong  Kong  Housing 
Society and a member of the Executive Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region.

Mr.  Yang  Liang  Yee  Philip,  aged  72,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director 
of the Company  since 3rd August  2018.  He  is  the chairman of  the  Share  Committee and 
a  member  of  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Nomination  Committee  and  the  Remuneration 
Committee  of  the  Company.  Mr.  Yang  is  currently  an  independent  non-executive 
director of COSCO SHIPPING Ports (a company listed in Hong Kong). He is a full time 
arbitrator  in  international  commercial  and  maritime  arbitration,  the  honorary  chairman 
of Hong Kong International Arbitration Centre, the member of the international advisory 
board  of  China  International  Economic  and  Trade  Arbitration  Commission,  the  Asian 
International Arbitration Centre in Malaysia, the Korean Commercial Arbitration Board, 
the  General  Committee  of  Singapore  Chamber  of  Maritime  Arbitration,  and  the  expert 
committee  of  China  International  Commercial  Court  of  the  Supreme  People’s  Court  of 
China.

Mr.  Yang  had  been  an  independent  non-executive  director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING 
Holdings  (a  company  listed  in  both  Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong),  the  chairman  of  Hong 
Kong International Arbitration Centre, the vice chairman of the documentary committee 
of  the  Baltic  International  Maritime  Council  in  Denmark,  the  president  of  Asia-Pacific 
Regional Arbitration Group, the Hong Kong representative of ICC International Court of 
Arbitration, the chairman of the East Asia branch of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators.

Mr.  Yang  has  extensive  experience  in  dealing  with  cases  related  to  international 
commercial,  maritime  and  trade  law  and  is  very  familiar  with  laws  and  practice  in  such 
areas.  He  acts  as  an  arbitrator  in  thousands  of  cases  in  Hong  Kong,  London,  Singapore, 
Malaysia,  Australia,  Austria,  Korea,  the  USA  and  Mainland  China  during  the  past  over 
30  years.  He  has  also  published  many  books  and  articles  on  international  commercial, 
maritime  and  trade  law  and  practice.  Mr.  Yang  also  devoted  himself  to  the  educational 
activities  in  various  law  schools  in  Hong  Kong  and  Mainland  China  and  is  a  visiting 
professor in more than ten universities.

Board of Directors

Chung Shui Ming Timpson

Yang Liang Yee Philip

5151

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Board of Directors

Chen Ying

So Gregory Kam Leung

52

Ms.  Chen  Ying,  aged  50,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the 
Company  and  a  member  of  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Finance  Committee  and  the 
Share  Committee  of  the  Company  since  3rd  August  2018.  Ms.  Chen  holds  a  master 
degree  in  Business  Administration  from  Fudan  University,  a  master  degree  in  Business 
Administration,  major  in  Finance  from  Maastricht  College  in  the  Netherlands  and 
graduated  from  the  School  of  Finance  of  Renmin  University  of  China.  She  is  a  certified 
public  accountant  in  Australia,  CIMA  (registered  management  accountant)  and  a  senior 
accountant  in  China.  Ms.  Chen  is  an  external  director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines,  an 
independent  non-executive  director  of  Pingdingshan  Tianan  Coal  Mining  Co.,  Ltd.  (a 
company listed in Shanghai with bonds listed in Hong Kong) and an independent director 
of  China  Shipbuilding  Industry  Company  Limited  (a  company  listed  in  Shanghai), 
Changzhou  Fusion  New  Material  Co.,  Ltd.  and  Shanghai  Lianwei  Digital  Technology 
Group Company Limited.

Ms. Chen had been the vice chairman of Shanghai Chongyang Investment Co., Ltd. from 
March 2016 to June 2018. During the period from 1993 to 2016, she had been the deputy 
general  manager  and  the  secretary  of  the  board  of  directors  of  Baoshan  Iron  Steel  Co., 
Ltd, the secretary of the board of directors, the assistant general manager and the deputy 
general manager of the Baosteel Group Co., Ltd.

Ms.  Chen  has  more  than  twenty  years’  experience  in  financial  management  of  large 
enterprises,  more  than  ten  years’  experience  as  top  executives  in  the  top  500  of  the 
world  companies  and  has  extensive  experience  in  corporate  finance  and  accounting 
management,  capital  market  communication,  corporate  governance,  internal  control  and 
risk management.

Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung, GBS, JP, aged 62, has been an Independent Non-Executive 
Director and a member of the Audit Committee of the Company since 17th May 2019, and 
a member of the Independent Board Committee of the Company since 23rd August 2019. 
Mr.  So  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Arts  degree  in  Economics  from  Carleton  University,  Canada 
and  a  bachelor  degree  in  Law  and  a  master  degree  in  Business  Administration  from  the 
University  of  Ottawa,  Canada.  Mr.  So  has  been  a  member  of  the  Law  Society  of  Alberta, 
Canada  since  June  1985,  a  member  of  the  Law  Society  of  Upper  Canada  in  November 
1988, a member of the Law Society (England and Wales) in January 1989 and a member 
of the Hong Kong Law Society in March 1989. Since 1984, Mr. So provided legal services 
in Canada. He continued his legal practice upon returning to Hong Kong in 1989 and has 
over 25 years of practice experience as a lawyer. Mr. So is currently an independent non-
executive  director  of  China  Overseas  Property  Holdings  Limited  (a  company  listed  in 
Hong Kong), Investcorp Holdings B.S.C. (a company listed in Bahrain) and Blue Insurance 
Limited (formerly known as Aviva Life Insurance Company Limited), a consultant in So, 
Lung  and  Associates,  Solicitors  and  an  advisor  of  Superland  Group  Holdings  Limited  (a 
company listed in Hong Kong).

Mr.  So  was  appointed  as  the  Undersecretary  for  the  Commerce  and  Economic 
Development  of  the  third  term  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region on 1st June 2008, the Secretary for the Commerce and Economic Development on 
28th June 2011 and was again appointed as the Secretary for the Commerce and Economic 
Development  of  the  fourth  term  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region on 1st July 2012 until 30th June 2017. The Commerce and Economic Development 
Bureau  is  responsible  for  various  policy  matters  including  Hong  Kong’s  external 
commercial  relations,  inward  investment  promotion,  intellectual  property  protection, 
industry  and  business  support,  tourism,  consumer  protection,  competition,  information 
technology, telecommunications, broadcasting, development of innovation and technology 
(until  November  2015),  and  film  and  creative  industries  related  issues.  Mr.  So  had  been 
the  vice-chairman  of  the  Democratic  Alliance  for  the  Betterment  and  Progress  of  Hong 
Kong,  a  board  member  of  Hong  Kong  Hospital  Authority,  a  council  member  of  Lingnan 
University,  a  member  of  Commission  on  Strategic  Development  and  a  member  of  the 
District Council of Wong Tai Sin District.

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Senior Management

Senior Management

Kenny Ye

Xiang Chen

Mr.  Ye,  aged  57,  has  been  a  Director  of  OOCL  since  June 
2018  and  a  member  of  Executive  Committee  since  November 
2015.  He  was  appointed  Chief  Operating  Officer  of  OOCL  in 
January 2020 and Director of Office of Chief Executive Officer, 
Corporate  Human  Resources,  Corporate  Operations,  Traffic 
Control  Center,  Fleet  Management  and  Regions  Management 
in  August  2020.  He  joined  the  Group  in  1994  and  has  served 
the  Group  in  various  capacities  for  26  years.  Following  his 
assignment  in  Shanghai,  he  was  transferred  to  Hong  Kong  in 
2004 and has served the Group in various capacities, including 
as Director of Asia-Europe Trade, Director of Intra-Asia Trade 
and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  OOCL  Logistics.  Mr.  Ye  holds 
a  Diploma  of  Accounting  in  Lixin  Accounting  Institute  and 
a  Master  of  Business  Administration  from  Oklahoma  City 
University.

Ms.  Chen,  aged  57,  has  been  a  Director  and  a  member  of 
Executive  Committee  of  OOCL  and  was  also  appointed  the 
Director  of  Strategy  Coordination  since  August  2018.  She 
was  appointed  Director  of  Corporate  Strategy  Development 
and  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  OOCL  Logistics  in  August 
2020.  She  started  her  career  in  1985  and  served  successively 
as  Deputy  Manager,  Manager,  Deputy  General  Manager  of 
Marketing Division, General Manager of Business and Process 
System Division of COSCO Container Lines Co., Ltd. She was 
a  Deputy Managing Director of  COSCO  Container Lines Co., 
Ltd.  from  2006  to  2016,  and  has  been  the  Deputy  Managing 
Director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines  since  2016.  Ms.  Chen 
graduated  from  Shanghai  Maritime  University,  majoring  in 
Transportation  and  Management.  She  has  a  Master’s  degree 
and the qualification of Senior Economist.

Mingwen Zhang

Steve Siu

Mr. Zhang, aged 42, has been a Director and a member of 
Executive Committee of OOCL since August 2018, and 
was also appointed the Chief Financial Officer of COSCO 
SHIPPING Holdings, OOIL and OOCL. He has nearly 22 
years of working experience in the shipping industry. Mr. 
Zhang graduated from the Faculty of Finance at the Shanghai 
University of Finance and Economics, majoring in Investment 
Economics, and from the Antai College of Economics & 
Management at the Shanghai Jiao Tong University, majoring 
in Business Administration where he obtained a Bachelor’s 
degree in Economics and a Master’s degree in Business 
Administration. Mr. Zhang is a Chartered Financial Analyst 
(CFA) and a Senior Accountant.

Mr.  Siu,  aged  63,  had  been  a  Director  and  a  member  of 
Executive Committee of OOCL since November 2006 and was 
appointed  Chief  Information  Officer.  He  had  been  the  Chief 
Executive Officer of CargoSmart since January 2002. He joined 
the Group in 1987 and served the Group in various capacities 
for 33 years until he retired on 1st January 2021. Mr. Siu holds 
a Bachelor of Science and a Master of Science from University 
of Essex, UK, and a Master of Business Administration jointly 
organised  by  Northwestern  University  and  The  Hong  Kong 
University of Science and Technology.

5353

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Senior Management

Shuai Chen

Michael Fitzgerald

Mr.  Chen,  aged  46,  has  been  a  Director  and  a  member  of 
Executive  Committee  of  OOCL  since  October  2019.  He  is 
currently the Deputy General Manager of COSCO SHIPPING 
Holdings,  the  Deputy  Managing  Director  of  COSCO 
SHIPPING  Lines.  Mr.  Chen  joined  COSCO  Group  in  July 
1995, had served in various capacities, including the Assistant 
to  Manager  and  the  Deputy  Manager  of  Container  Shipping 
Division  I  of  China  Shipping  Container  Lines  Co.,  Ltd.,  the 
Assistant  to  General  Manager  of  China  Shipping  Container 
Lines (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd., the General Manager of America 
Division of China Shipping Container Lines Co., Ltd., and the 
Assistant to General Manager and Deputy General Manager of 
China Shipping Container Lines Co., Ltd.. Mr. Chen graduated 
from  Shanghai  Maritime  Academy  with  major  in  Marine 
Engineering Management.

Mr.  Fitzgerald,  aged  47,  has  been  a  Director  of  OOCL  since 
June  2018  and  a  member  of  Executive  Committee  since  2014. 
He  joined  the  group  in  September  2014  as  Group  Finance 
Director  and  has  been  the  Group  Deputy  Chief  Financial 
Officer  since  December  2015.  He  started  his  career  at  KPMG 
in London in August 1995, and having qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant,  moved  to  the  Structured  Finance  division  of 
Société Générale in January 1999, where he enjoyed an almost 
16-year  career,  holding  various  posts  in  London,  Hong  Kong 
and  Paris.  Mr.  Fitzgerald  holds  the  degrees  of  Bachelor  and 
Master of Arts from the University of Oxford, and is a Fellow 
of  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  in  England  and 
Wales.

Raymond Fung

Teddy Fung

Mr.  Fung,  aged  62,  has  been  a  Director  of  OOCL  since  June 
2018  and  a  member  of  Executive  Committee  since  November 
2015.  He  was  appointed  Director  of  Trades  since  January 
2016,  and  Director  of  Intra-Asia  Trade  until  2015.  Mr.  Fung 
joined the Group in 1983 and has served the Group in various 
capacities  for  37  years,  including  as  General  Manager  of 
Operations,  Managing  Director  of  OOCL  (UAE),  Director 
of  Australia  Trade,  and  General  Manager  of  Corporate 
Methods  and  Tools.  Mr.  Fung  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Business 
Administration  General  Business  Management  from  The 
Chinese University of Hong Kong.

Mr.  Fung,  aged  60,  has  been  a  Director  of  OOCL  since  June 
2018  and  a  member  of  Executive  Committee  since  November 
2015.  He  was  appointed  Director  of  Trades  since  April  2019 
and  Director  of  Corporate  Operation  since  September  2013 
until March 2019. He joined the Group in 1994 and has served 
the  Group  in  various  capacities  for  26  years,  including  as 
General  Manager  of  OOCL  South  China  sub-region,  Director 
of  Reefer  Trade,  Managing  Director  of  OOCL  Hong  Kong 
Branch, and Director of Regions Management. Mr. Fung holds 
a Bachelor of Social Science in Economics and a Master of Arts 
in Transport Studies from The University of Hong Kong.

54

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Senior Management

Junguang Xiao

Yu Wu

Mr. Xiao, aged 50, has been the Company Secretary, the Group 
Legal  Advisor,  the  Compliance  Officer,  the  chairman  of  the 
Compliance  Committee,  a  member  of  the  Inside  Information 
Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee  of  OOIL  since  August 
2020.  Mr.  Xiao  is  currently  deputy  general  manager  of 
the  public  relations  division  of  China  COSCO  SHIPPING 
Corporation  Limited.  Mr.  Xiao  holds  a  Bachelor’s  degree 
in  Finance  from  the  Capital  University  of  Economics  and 
Business  (formerly  known  as  the  Beijing  Institute  of  Finance 
&  Trade),  and  a  Master’s  degree  in  Applied  Finance  from 
Macquarie  University.  Mr.  Xiao  is  an  associate  member  of 
The  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Chartered  Secretaries  and  The 
Chartered Governance Institute. 

Ms.  Wu,  aged  45,  has  been  a  Director  and  a  member  of 
Executive  Committee  of  OOCL  since  August  2020  and  was 
also  appointed  the  Chief  Information  Officer  and  Director 
of  Corporate  Customer  Service  on  1st  January  2021.  Ms. 
Wu  joined  COSCO  Group  in  1997  and  is  currently  Assistant 
Managing Director of COSCO SHIPPING Lines. Ms. Wu holds 
a  Bachelor’s  degree  in  International  Shipping  Management 
from  Shanghai  Maritime  University  and  a  Master’s  degree 
in  Business  Administration  from  Fudan  University,  and  the 
qualification of Economist.

5555

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Financial Calendar

Financial Calendar

Announcement of results for the half year ended 30th June 2020

21st August 2020

Despatch of 2020 Interim Report to shareholders

17th September 2020

Closure of the Register of Members  
(to ascertain the shareholders qualified to receive the  
proposed interim dividend in respect of the six months ended 30th June 2020)

18th September 2020 to 
22th September 2020 
(Both days inclusive)

Announcement of results for the year ended 31st December 2020

26th March 2021

Despatch of 2020 Annual Report to shareholders

29th April 2021

Closure of the Register of Members  
(to ascertain the shareholders eligible to attend and  
vote at the Annual General Meeting)

17th May 2021 to 
21st May 2021 
(Both days inclusive)

2020 Annual General Meeting

21st May 2021

Closure of the Register of Members  
(to ascertain the shareholders qualified to receive the  
proposed final and special dividends in respect of the year ended 31st December 2020)

28th May 2021 to 
1st June 2021 
(Both days inclusive)

56

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Shareholder Information

Shareholder Information

ORDINARY SHARES

Issued shares

Nominal value per share
Board lot

625,793,297 shares (as at 31st December 2020)
637,193,297 shares (as at the date of this annual report)
US$0.10
500 shares

ANNUAL REPORT
This annual report is available in both English and Chinese.

Shareholders can obtain copies by writing to the Company’s Hong Kong branch share registrar:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited
17M Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong, China

If you are not a shareholder, please write to:
Orient Overseas (International) Limited
31st Floor, Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road
Wanchai, Hong Kong, China
Attention: Company Secretary

This annual report is also available at our website at http://www.ooilgroup.com.

SHAREHOLDER SERVICES
Any  matter  relating  to  your  shareholding,  including  transfer  of  shares,  change  of  name  or  address,  and  loss  of  share  certificates 
should be addressed in writing to:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited

Shops 1712-1716, 17th Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong, China

Telephone: (852) 2862 8555

Facsimile: (852) 2865 0990

SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES
Any matter relating to shareholders’ rights should be addressed in writing to:

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
31st Floor, Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road
Wanchai, Hong Kong, China
Attention: Company Secretary

Our enquiry hotline is operational during normal office hours:

Telephone: (852) 2833 3888

Facsimile: (852) 2531 8147

5757

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Shareholder Information

SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Ordinary shareholder information as at 31st December 2020:

Type of shareholders

Type of shareholders

Number

Percentage

Number

Percentage

Shareholders

Ordinary Shares of 

US$0.10 each

Corporate

Individual

Distribution of shareholdings

Size of shareholdings

1 – 10,000

10,001 – 100,000

100,001 – 1,000,000

1,000,001 or above

16

545

561

2.8520%

97.1480%

624,753,662

1,039,635

99.8339%

0.1661%

100%

625,793,297

100%

Shareholders

Ordinary Shares of 

US$0.10 each

Number

Percentage

Number

Percentage

542

15

1

3

561

96.6132%

2.6738%

0.1782%

0.5348%

448,371

433,203

259,000

624,652,723

0.0716%

0.0692%

0.0414%

99.8178%

100%

625,793,297

100%

58

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Shareholder Information

Ten largest ordinary shareholders

At  31st  December  2020,  the  interests  of  the  ten  largest  ordinary  shareholders  of  the  Company,  as  recorded  in  the  Company’s 
principal register and Hong Kong branch register of members, were as follows:

Name of ordinary shareholders

ordinary shares held

Percentage

Number of 

Faulkner Global Holdings Limited (Note)

HKSCC Nominees Limited

Shanghai Port Group (BVI) Development Co., Limited

Mok Kwun Cheung

Po Leung Kuk

Ho Fuk Chuen

Fung Sun Kwan U/D

Ho Hin Kwong

Leung Wong Kit Ling

Chow Mung Ha

Note:

As at 31st December 2020,

315,779,045

246,920,142

61,953,536

259,000

70,500

52,000

45,022

40,454

35,000

32,420

50.4606%

39.4571%

9.9000%

0.0414%

0.0113%

0.0083%

0.0072%

0.0065%

0.0056%

0.0052%

– 

– 

Faulkner Global Holdings Limited also had interests in 153,565,927 shares of the Company registered via Central Clearing and Settlement System 
under the name of HKSCC Nominees Limited, representing 24.5394% of the Company’s total issued shares.
Faulkner  Global  Holdings  Limited  had  interests  in  a  total  of  469,344,972  shares  of  the  Company,  representing  75%  of  the  Company’s  total  issued 
shares.

5959

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

Corporate Governance Report

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE
The  Board  of  Directors  (the  “Board”)  and  the  management  of  the  Company  are  committed  to  maintaining  high  standards  of 
corporate governance. The Company considers that effective corporate governance makes an important contribution to corporate 
success and to the enhancement of shareholder value.

The  Company  has  adopted  its  own  corporate  governance  code  (the  “CG  Code”),  which  in  addition  to  applying  the  principles 
as  set  out  in  the  Corporate  Governance  Code  and  Corporate  Governance  Report  (the  “SEHK  Code”)  contained  in  Appendix 
14  to  the  Rules  Governing  the  Listing  of  Securities  (the  “Listing  Rules”)  on  The  Stock  Exchange  of  Hong  Kong  Limited 
(the  “Stock  Exchange”),  also  incorporates  and  conforms  to  local  and  international  best  practices.  The  CG  Code  sets  out  the 
corporate governance principles applied by the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) and is constantly reviewed to ensure 
transparency, accountability and independence.

Throughout the year 2020, the Company complied with the SEHK Code, save for the following:

•  Code Provision

•  Mr. Xu Lirong, the Chairman of the Board, did not attend the annual general meeting of the Company held on 15th May 
2020 (the “Last AGM”) due to prior business engagement and delegated to Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah to chair the Last 
AGM.

•  Recommended Best Practices

• 
• 

the remuneration of senior management of the Group is disclosed in bands
operational results, instead of financial results, are announced and published quarterly

60

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
Corporate Governance Report

We have set out in this report our guiding principles and rationale for implementation of the CG Code as well as the status of the 
Company’s compliance with Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules during the year 2020:

A.  BOARD OF DIRECTORS

1.  Board Composition

The Board is currently comprised of four Executive Directors, five Non-Executive Directors and five Independent Non-
Executive Directors of the Company.

Executive Directors

Mr. Xu Lirong (Chairman)
Mr. Huang Xiaowen (Chief Executive Officer) 
Mr. Yang Zhijian
Mr. Feng Boming

Non-Executive Directors

Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Yan Jun
Ms. Wang Dan
Mr. Ip Sing Chi
Ms. Cui Hongqin

Independent Non-Executive Directors

Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip
Ms. Chen Ying
Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung

The biographical details of the Directors of the Company are set out on the Company’s website at http://www.ooilgroup.com 
and on pages 46 to 52 of this annual report.

The Directors have formal letters of appointment setting out the key terms and conditions of their appointments, and 
are for a fixed term of three years and subject to re-election by rotation at least once every three years.

The  Directors  have  extensive  corporate  and  strategic  planning  experience  and  industry  knowledge.  All  Independent 
Non-Executive  Directors  of  the  Company  are  financially  independent  from  the  Group  bringing  independent  and 
diversified  experience,  competencies,  skills  and  judgment  to  the  Group’s  strategy  and  policies  through  their  informed 
contributions.  The  Board  considers  that  there  is  a  reasonable  balance  between  the  Executive  Directors  and  the  Non-
Executive Directors and has provided adequate checks and balances for safeguarding the interests of the shareholders of 
the Company and the Group.

The  Company  has  received  from  each  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  a  written  annual  confirmation  of  his/her 
independence and considers that all the Independent Non-Executive Directors have satisfied their independence to the 
Group up to the date of this annual report.

During the year 2020, the Board complied with the Listing Rules’ requirement in having at least three Independent Non-
Executive  Directors  representing  at  least  one-third  of  the  Board,  including  at  least  one  with  appropriate  professional 
qualification or accounting or related financial management expertise.

Directors’ and Officers’ Liabilities Insurance

Since 1992, the Company has arranged insurance cover for the directors’ and officers’ liabilities including cover for the 
Directors  of  the  Company,  and  the  directors,  officers  and  senior  management  of  the  Group  arising  out  of  corporate 
activities.

6161

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

2.  Board and Management Responsibilities

The  Board  is  responsible  for  the  overall  strategic  direction  and  management  of  the  business  and  affairs  of  the  Group 
with  the  objective  of  enhancing  shareholder  value  and  presenting  a  balanced,  clear  and  understandable  assessment  of 
the Company’s performance, position and prospects in the annual and interim reports, and announcements and other 
financial  disclosures  as  required  under  the  Listing  Rules,  and  reports  to  regulators  any  information  required  to  be 
disclosed pursuant to statutory requirements.

The Board has a fiduciary duty and statutory responsibility towards the Company and the Group. Other responsibilities 
include formulation of the Group’s overall strategies and policies, setting of corporate and management targets and key 
operational  initiatives,  setting  of  policies  on  risk  management  and  internal  control  systems  pursuant  to  the  Group’s 
strategic  objectives,  monitoring  and  control  of  operational  and  financial  performance,  and  approval  of  budgets  and 
major  capital  expenditures,  major  investments,  material  acquisitions  and  disposals  of  assets,  corporate  or  financial 
restructuring, significant operational, financial and management matters.

The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business of the Group to the management of the Group under the 
leadership and supervision of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, who will organise, execute, implement and 
report to the Board on the adoption of the Company’s strategies, policies and objectives by the Group as approved by the 
Board.

The  Board  also  delegates  certain  specific  responsibilities  to  nine  committees  of  the  Company  (Executive  Committee, 
Audit  Committee,  Remuneration  Committee,  Nomination  Committee,  Risk  Committee,  Compliance  Committee, 
Finance Committee, Share Committee and Inside Information Committee). The composition, functions and authority of 
each committee are described below. For the efficient management and operation of the Group’s principal division, the 
Board also delegates and confers certain powers, authorities and discretions on such terms as it thinks fit to the board 
of directors, the executive committee and certain sub-committees of the Group’s principal division for them to act and 
operate within the delegated frameworks.

The  Company  Secretary  of  the  Company  provides  the  Directors  with  updates  on  developments  regarding  the  Listing 
Rules and other applicable regulatory requirements. Any Director of the Company may request the Company Secretary 
to organise independent professional advice at the expense of the Company to assist them to effectively discharge their 
duties to the Company.

3.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Mr. Xu Lirong is the Chairman of the Company and Mr. Huang Xiaowen is the Chief Executive Officer of the Company 
with the respective roles set out in writing.

a.  The  primary  role  of  the  Chairman  is  to  provide  leadership  to  the  Board  and  to  ensure  that  the  Board  functions 

effectively in the discharge of its responsibilities. His duties include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

ensure that Directors are briefed and have received timely, accurate, complete and clear information on issues 
to be discussed at Board meetings;

ensure  that  the  Board  works  effectively  and  performs  its  responsibilities,  and  that  all  key  and  appropriate 
issues  are  discussed  in  a  timely  manner  and  that  good  corporate  governance  practices  and  procedures  are 
established, implemented and maintained;

approve  the  agenda  drawn  up  by  the  Company  Secretary  for  each  Board  meeting  taking  into  account  any 
matter proposed by the other Directors of the Company for inclusion in the agenda;

promote  a  culture  of  openness  and  debate  by  facilitating  the  effective  contribution  of  the  Non-Executive 
Directors (including Independent Non-Executive Directors) in particular and ensuring constructive relations 
between  the  Executive  Directors  and  the  Non-Executive  Directors;  and  encourage  Directors  with  different 
views  to  voice  their  concerns,  allow  sufficient  time  for  discussion  of  issues  and  ensure  that  Board  decisions 
fairly reflect Board consensus;

62

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

hold  meetings  at  least  annually  with  the  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors  without  the  presence  of  the 
other Directors;

ensure effective communication with the shareholders of the Company and that their views are communicated 
to the Board; and to

attend  the  annual  general  meetings  of  the  Company  and  invite  the  chairmen  of  the  Audit  Committee,  the 
Remuneration  Committee,  the  Nomination  Committee  and  the  other  Board  committees,  or  in  the  absence 
of  the  chairman  of  the  respective  Board  committees,  other  members  of  the  related  Board  committees  to  be 
available to answer questions at the annual general meetings.

In case of an equality of votes at any Board meeting, the Chairman shall be entitled to a second or a casting vote.

b.  The  primary  role  of  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the  Company  is  to  be  responsible  for  the  day-to-day 

management and operation of the business of the Group. His duties include to:

– 

provide  leadership  and  supervise  the  effective  management  of  the  Group  and  to  establish  and  review  from 
time to time the management system of the Group;

– 

set up programs for management development and succession plans for the Group;

–  monitor and control the operational and financial performance of the Group;

– 

– 

– 

organise,  execute,  implement  and  report  to  the  Board  on  the  adoption  of  the  Company’s  strategies,  policies 
and objectives by the Group pursuant to the Board’s decisions;

provide  information  to  the  Board  (as  necessary)  to  enable  the  Board  to  monitor  the  performance  of 
management and operation of the Group; and to

organise  the  implementation  of  the  Board’s  decision  and  implement  such  duties  as  directed  or  delegated  by 
the Board.

4.  Board Meetings

Regular Board meetings are scheduled one year in advance to maximise the attendance of Directors. The Board meets at 
least four times each year and has a formal schedule of matters referred to it for consideration and decision. Additional 
meetings may be convened as and when necessary. Notice of at least fourteen days is served for regular Board meetings 
and reasonable notice is given for all other Board meetings. Directors are consulted and provided with an opportunity 
to include matters to the agenda for discussion at the Board meetings. The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in 
preparing the agenda for each Board meeting and to ensure that applicable rules and regulations regarding the meetings 
are observed. The final agenda together with the Board papers are distributed to the Directors at least three days before 
the Board meetings.

If  a  Director  or  a  substantial  shareholder  of  the  Company  has  a  conflict  of  interest  in  any  matter  to  be  considered  by 
the Board, the Company Secretary shall ensure that such matter is dealt with by a physical Board meeting rather than 
a written resolution. If considered appropriate, the Board meeting shall be attended by the Independent Non-Executive 
Directors  who  have  no  material  interests  in  the  matter.  The  affected  Director  shall  abstain  from  voting  on  any  such 
resolution  in  which  they  or  any  of  their  associates  have  a  material  interest  and  shall  not  be  counted  in  the  quorum 
present at that Board meeting.

The  Company  Secretary  shall  ensure  that  the  procedures  and  applicable  rules  and  regulations  are  observed.  The 
Directors of the Company can have access to all signed minutes of the Board.

6363

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

5.  Director Induction and Continuous Professional Development

Newly  appointed  Director  will  receive  a  comprehensive  induction  pack  at  the  time  of  his  appointment  to  ensure 
understanding  of  the  directors’  responsibilities  and  obligations  under  the  Listing  Rules  and  the  relevant  regulatory 
requirements.

In  addition  to  Directors’  attendance  at  meetings  and  review  of  papers  and  circulars  provided  by  the  Company,  the 
Directors are committed to participating in continuous professional development program to develop and refresh their 
knowledge and skills to help ensure that their contribution to the Board remains informed and relevant.

The program for continuous professional development of Directors may take various forms including:

• 

the  Company  briefing  Directors  on  important  issues  which  have  a  material  impact  on  the  Group’s  business, 
financial  and  operational  matters  including  major  investments,  corporate  governance  practices  and  funding 
strategy;

•  Directors meeting senior management of the Group on issues specific to the Group’s business;

•  Directors reading materials and updates on the regulatory changes followed by briefings by the Company Secretary 

of the Company, if requested; and

•  Directors  attending  external  seminars  on  business,  financial,  governance,  regulatory  and  other  issues  relevant  to 

the Group’s activities.

Below is the record of participation in continuous professional development program by the Directors of the Company 
appointed  as  at  31st  December  2020  relevant  to  the  directors’  duties  and  responsibilities,  regulatory  updates  and 
business, financial and operational matters of the Group. 

Reading materials

Attending external 
seminars/briefings

Executive Directors
Mr. Xu Lirong
Mr. Huang Xiaowen 
Mr. Yang Zhijian 
Mr. Feng Boming 

Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew 
Mr. Yan Jun 
Ms. Wang Dan 
Mr. Ip Sing Chi 
Ms. Cui Hongqin

Independent Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip
Ms. Chen Ying
Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung 

✓
✓
✓
✓

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

✓

✓
✓

Mr. Xiao Junguang, who was appointed as the Company Secretary of the Company on 5th August 2020, undertook no 
less than fifteen hours of professional training in year 2020 to update his skills and knowledge.

64

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

6.  Supply of and Access to Information

All  Directors  have  access  to  the  Board’s  and  the  Committees’  papers  and  other  materials  either  from  the  Company 
Secretary or the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer so that they are able to make informed decisions on matters 
placed before them.

7.  Nomination of Directors

The Company follows a formal, considered and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors based on 
a  nomination  policy  (the  “Nomination  Policy”)  formally  adopted  in  2018  providing  the  selection  criteria  of  potential 
candidates  for  directorship  of  the  Company,  and  the  procedures  for  appointment  of  Directors  of  the  Company  and 
certain  significant  positions  of  the  Group,  for  the  Board  to  achieve  a  balance  of  skills,  experience  and  diversity  of 
perspectives appropriate to the requirements of the Company’s strategic focus and specific business needs. Recognising 
the  vitality  of  diversity  for  the  Board,  the  Company  has  also  adopted  a  board  diversity  policy  (the  “Board  Diversity 
Policy”) in 2013.

The  Nomination  Committee  of  the  Company  reviews  the  structure,  size  and  composition  of  the  Board  regularly  and 
makes  recommendation  to  the  Board  to  complement  the  corporate  strategy  of  the  Company.  The  appointment  of  a 
new Director is a collective decision of the Board, taking into consideration both the Nomination Policy and the Board 
Diversity Policy. The Board believes that changes to the Board composition shall be managed without undue disruption, 
and  shall  continue  to  provide  a  balanced  composition  of  the  Executive  Directors  and  the  Non-Executive  Directors 
(including Independent Non-Executive Directors) so that there is a strong independent element in the Board, which can 
effectively exercise independent judgement.

Each  Director  shall,  after  his/her  appointment  and  semi-annually  thereafter,  disclose  to  the  Board  the  number 
and  nature  of  offices  held  by  such  Director  in  other  public  companies  and  organisations  and  any  other  significant 
commitments, together with the identity of the public companies and organisations and an indication of time involved.

At the Last AGM, Mr. Wang Haimin, Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew, Mr. Ip Sing Chi, Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah and 
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson retired and were re-elected as Directors of the Company in accordance with the Bye-laws 
of the Company (the “Bye-laws”).

At  the  special  general  meeting  of  the  Company  held  on  30th  November  2020  (the  “SGM”),  Mr.  Huang  Xiaowen, 
appointed  as  an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company  on  10th  August  2020,  retired  and  was  re-elected  as  an  Executive 
Director of the Company pursuant to Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules.

6565

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

8.  Board Committees

In  addition  to  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee  and  the  Nomination  Committee  established  in 
compliance  with  the  Listing  Rules,  the  other  committees  of  the  Company  are  the  Executive  Committee,  the  Finance 
Committee,  the  Share  Committee,  the  Compliance  Committee,  the  Inside  Information  Committee  and  the  Risk 
Committee. Each committee has its own well defined scope of duties and terms of reference and is empowered to make 
decisions on matters within its terms of reference of such committee. The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, 
the  Remuneration  Committee  and  the  Nomination  Committee  are  posted  on  the  websites  of  the  Company  and  the 
Stock  Exchange.  The  Company  Secretary  shall  also  make  available  the  terms  of  reference  of  all  the  committees  to  the 
shareholders of the Company upon their written request. Members of the respective committees and the Directors of the 
Company can have access to the minutes of the relevant committees.

a.  Executive Committee

The  Executive  Committee  was  established  in  1996  and  its  members  are  the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Company, 
currently  comprising  of  Mr.  Xu  Lirong  (chairman  of  the  Executive  Committee),  Mr.  Huang  Xiaowen  (appointed 
as member of the Executive Committee on 10th August 2020), Mr. Yang Zhijian and Mr. Feng Boming.  Mr. Xiao 
Junguang acts as the secretary of the Executive Committee (with effect from 5th August 2020).

The Executive Committee operates as an executive management committee under the direct authority of the Board. 
Its primary duties include to:

– 

formulate strategies and policies and to set corporate and management targets and operational initiatives and 
policies on risk management, and plans and operational directions for the Group;

–  monitor, control and manage operational and financial performance and business affairs of the Group;

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review,  discuss  and  recommend  to  the  Board  for  consideration  and  approval  (if  appropriate) 
(i)  announcements,  circulars  and  other  documents  (including  price  sensitive  and  financial  information) 
required  to  be  disclosed  pursuant  to  the  Listing  Rules,  regulatory  or  statutory  requirements;  and  (ii) 
submissions from the Compliance Committee, the Finance Committee and the Share Committee;

approve capital expenditure of a specified amount;

review,  discuss  and  approve  (if  appropriate)  major  or  unbudgeted  asset  acquisition  or  disposals;  major  or 
unbudgeted mergers and/or acquisitions by the business units of the Group’s principal division; setting up of 
major joint-ventures and partnerships with a company not currently controlled and managed by the Group;

liaise  and  consult  with,  advise  and  make  recommendations  to  its  subsidiaries  and  make  such  decisions  with 
regard thereto as the Executive Committee shall in its absolute discretion think fit, and refer such matters as it 
thinks fit to the Board for consideration, approval and/or ratification, if necessary; and to

report to the Board on its decisions, and any matter in respect of which it considers that action is needed, and 
its recommendations as to the steps to be taken.

66

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

b.  Audit Committee

The  Audit  Committee  was  established  in  1992  and  its  members  are  the  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors, 
currently  comprising  of  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah  (chairman  of  the  Audit  Committee),  Dr.  Chung  Shui  Ming 
Timpson, Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip, Ms. Chen Ying and Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung. Ms. Lai Yuen Ying Vivian, 
the Head of Internal Audit Department, acts as the secretary of the Audit Committee, and Mr. Xiao Junguang acts 
as the assistant secretary of the Audit Committee (with effect from 5th August 2020). 

The  Audit  Committee  is  delegated  by  the  Board  with  the  responsibility  to  provide  an  independent  review  and 
supervision  of  financial  reporting  and  to  ensure  the  effectiveness  of  the  Group’s  risk  management  and  internal 
control  systems  and  the  adequacy  of  the  external  and  internal  audit.  To  perform  its  duties,  the  Audit  Committee 
is  provided  with  sufficient  resources  and  is  supported  by  the  Internal  Audit  Department  to  examine  all  matters 
relating to the Group’s adopted accounting principles and practices and to review all material financial, operational 
and compliance controls. The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are posted on the Company’s website.

The primary duties of the Audit Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

recommend  to  the  Board  the  appointment,  re-appointment  and  removal  of  the  external  auditor,  and  to 
approve  the  remuneration  and  the  terms  of  engagement  of  the  external  auditor,  and  any  question  of  its 
resignation or dismissal;

act as the key representative body overseeing the Company’s relation with the external auditor;

seek from the external auditor, on an annual basis, information about policies and processes for maintaining 
independence  and  monitoring  compliance  with  the  relevant  requirements,  including  provision  of  non-audit 
services and requirements regarding rotation of audit partners and staff;

discuss  with  the  external  auditor  any  recommendation  arising  from  the  audit,  and  to  review  the  external 
auditor’s  management  letter,  any  material  query  raised  by  the  external  auditor  to  management  about 
accounting records, financial statements or systems of control and management’s response, and to ensure that 
the Board will provide timely response to the issues raised in the external auditor’s management letter;

establish  and  review  from  time  to  time  the  procedure  to  review  and  monitor  the  external  auditor’s 
independence  and  objectivity,  and  the  effectiveness  of  the  audit  process  in  accordance  with  the  applicable 
standards and the scope of the external auditor, and to discuss and understand the factors considered by the 
external auditor in determining the nature and scope of the audit and reporting obligations before the audit 
commences;

establish and review from time to time the policy relating to hiring of employees or former employees of the 
external auditor and monitor the application of such policy; and to consider whether as a result of such hiring 
there has been any impairment of the auditor’s judgment or independence in respect of the audit;

establish and review from time to time the policy on engaging external auditor to supply non-audit services 
and  to  review  such  services  do  not  impair  the  external  auditor’s  independence  or  objectivity  in  relation  to 
non-audit  services  including  whether  the  skills  and  experience  of  the  external  auditor  make  it  a  suitable 
supplier  of  non-audit  services;  whether  there  are  safeguards  in  place  to  ensure  that  there  is  no  threat  to  the 
objectivity  and  independence  of  the  audit  because  the  external  auditor  provides  non-audit  services;  and 
the  nature  of  non-audit  services,  the  related  fee  levels  and  fee  levels  individually  and  in  total  relative  to  the 
external auditor;

6767

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

– 

review the Group’s financial and accounting policies and practices;

–  monitor  the  integrity  of  the  Company’s  financial  statements,  annual,  quarterly  (if  prepared  for  publication) 
and  interim  financial  reports  and  to  review  any  significant  financial  reporting  judgment  contained  in  them, 
with particular focus on changes in accounting policies and practices, major judgmental areas, any significant 
audit  adjustment,  the  going  concern  assumption  and  any  qualification,  compliance  with  any  applicable  legal 
requirement and accounting standard, and compliance with the requirements of the Listing Rules and other 
legal requirements in relation to financial reporting;

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

consider  any  significant  or  unusual  item  that  is,  or  may  need  to  be,  reflected  in  the  report  and  financial 
statements  and  to  give  due  consideration  to  any  matter  that  has  been  raised  by  the  Financial  Compliance 
Officer  of  the  Company,  the  external  auditor,  the  Head  of  Internal  Audit  or  the  staff  responsible  for  the 
accounting and financial reporting function;

review  with  the  Group’s  management,  the  external  auditor  and  the  internal  auditor,  the  adequacy  of  the 
Group’s  policies  and  procedures  regarding  internal  control  system  (including  financial,  operational  and 
compliance  controls)  to  ensure  that  such  system  is  effective  with  audit  trails  to  protect  the  accuracy  and 
integrity  of  financial  data  and  to  pursue  relevant  enquiries  into  matters  having,  or  likely  to  have,  a  material 
effect on the business and financial conditions of the Group. The result of the review is to be reported in the 
Corporate Governance Report of the Company, including a Directors’ statement that they have conducted a 
review of its internal control system;

provide  an  independent  review  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  risk  management  system  including  the  risk 
management framework, policies and processes;

discuss with management the scope and quality of the risk management and internal control systems and to 
ensure that management has performed its duty to have effective systems including the adequacy of resources, 
staff  qualifications  and  experience,  training  programs  and  budget  and  experience  of  staff  of  the  accounting, 
internal audit and financial reporting functions;

review findings of internal investigation and management’s response of any suspected fraud or irregularity or 
failure of risk management and internal control or infringement of laws, rules and regulations;

review the scope and effectiveness of the internal audit functions and to review the results of the internal audit 
functions  regularly  with  the  internal  auditor  matters  including  planning  of  the  Audit  Committee  meetings 
and, if required by the internal auditor, the internal audit program; and to ensure co-ordination between the 
internal and external auditors and that the internal audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate 
standing within the Company and to review and monitor its effectiveness;

review  the  effectiveness  and  monitor  the  use  of  the  whistleblowing  policy  and  procedures  for  employees  to 
raise  concerns,  in  confidence,  to  the  Audit  Committee  about  improprieties  in  financial  reporting,  internal 
control  and  other  matters;  and  to  ensure  that  proper  arrangements  are  in  place  for  fair  and  independent 
investigation of these improprieties and for appropriate follow-up action;

report to the Board on the matters raised in the SEHK Code; and to

report to the Board, identifying and making recommendations on any matter where action or improvement is 
needed and to consider other topics identified and referred to the Audit Committee by the Board.

Under  the  Group’s  whistleblowing  policy,  employees  may  report  any  concern  regarding  accounting,  internal 
accounting controls and auditing matters to the Audit Committee without fear of dismissal or retaliation, in order 
to  ensure  that  the  Group  complies  with  all  the  applicable  laws  and  regulations,  accounting  standards,  accounting 
controls and audit practices. The Audit Committee will review each complaint, the investigations and the follow-up 
actions, including disciplinary actions, by management on substantiated cases.

68

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

The Audit Committee held two meetings during the year ended 31st December 2020. The following is a summary 
of work performed by the Audit Committee during the year 2020:

(i) 

reviewed and discussed the annual financial statements for 2019 and the interim financial statements for 2020 
with the external auditor and management of the Company, with recommendations to the Board for approval;

(ii)  reviewed the significant audit and accounting issues arising from the external auditor’s statutory audit of the 

2019 annual financial statements and issues arising from the review of the 2020 interim financial statements;

(iii)  reviewed the impact of the new and revised accounting standards on the Company;

(iv)  reviewed the external auditor’s audit strategy and approach;

(v)  reviewed the non-audit services provided by the external auditor in 2019 and approved the additional service 

in 2020;

(vi)  met with the external auditor without the presence of management to discuss issues from the audits and any 

other matters the external auditor might raise;

(vii)  reviewed the Internal Audit Department’s audit objectives and approval of the annual internal audit plan;

(viii) reviewed  the  findings  and  recommendations  of  the  Internal  Audit  Department  on  the  audits  carried  out  on 

the principal activities of the Group during the year 2019;

(ix)  reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems;

(x)  reviewed  the  relevant  sections  in  the  Corporate  Governance  Report  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2019 

concerning the Audit Committee;

(xi)  reviewed the adequacy of the resources, staff qualifications and experience, training programs and budget and 

experience of staff of the Company’s accounting, internal audit and financial reporting functions;

(xii) reviewed the continuing connected transactions and their annual caps; and

(xiii) reviewed the continuous implementation of the whistleblowing policy.

The minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are prepared by the secretary of the Audit Committee with details of 
all matters considered by the attendees and of decisions reached, including any concern raised by the attendees and 
dissenting views expressed. The final version of the minutes is sent to the attendees for their records. The minutes 
are open for inspection by the Audit Committee members and the Board members.

6969

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

c.  Remuneration Committee

The  Remuneration  Committee  was  established  in  2005  and  is  currently  comprised  of  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah 
(chairman of the Remuneration Committee), Mr. Feng Boming and Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip, majority of whom 
are  the  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors  of  the  Company.  Mr.  Xiao  Junguang  acts  as  the  secretary  of  the 
Remuneration Committee (with effect from 5th August 2020).

The primary duties of the Remuneration Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review and recommend to the Board the Company’s policy and structure of the remuneration of the Directors 
of  the  Company,  senior  management  (including  the  chief  executive  officer  of  the  principal  division  of  the 
Group)  and  employees  of  the  Group  including  performance-based  bonus  scheme  on  the  basis  that  they  are 
fairly but reasonably rewarded for their individual contribution to the overall performance of the Company;

establish and review a formal and transparent procedure for developing the remuneration policy;

(i)  review  and  approve  the  management’s  remuneration  proposals  with  reference  to  the  Board’s  corporate 
goals  and  objectives;  and  determine  the  remuneration  packages  of  individual  Executive  Directors  of  the 
Company  and  senior  management  (including  the  chief  executive  officer  of  the  principal  division  of  the 
Group); and (ii) recommend to the Board the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

consult the Chairman of the Board and/or Chief Executive Officer of the Company about their remuneration 
proposals  for  the  other  Executive  Directors  of  the  Company  and  senior  management  (including  the  chief 
executive officer of the principal division of the Group);

review and approve compensation payable to the Executive Directors of the Company and senior management 
(including  the  chief  executive  officer  of  the  principal  division  of  the  Group)  for  any  loss  or  termination  of 
office to ensure that it is consistent with the contractual terms and is otherwise fair and not excessive;

review  and  approve  compensation  arrangements  relating  to  the  dismissal  and  removal  of  the  Directors  for 
their misconduct to ensure that they are consistent with the contractual terms and are otherwise reasonable 
and appropriate;

ensure  that  no  Director  or  any  of  his/her  associates  or  senior  management  (including  the  chief  executive 
officer of the principal division of the Group) is involved in deciding his/her own remuneration; and to

advise  the  Board  any  matter  relating  to  the  remuneration  and  reward  of  the  Executive  Directors  of  the 
Company or senior management (including the chief executive officer of the principal division of the Group) 
or employees of the Group.

70

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

The Remuneration Committee held two meetings during the year ended 31st December 2020. The work performed 
by the Remuneration Committee during the year 2020 includes:

(i) 

reviewed the Company’s remuneration policy and structure for the Directors of the Company, and the senior 
management and employees of the Group, and ensured compliance of disclosure with the Listing Rules and in 
line with best practices;

(ii)  reviewed the procedure for developing the Company’s remuneration policy;

(iii)  reviewed  the  discretionary  management  bonus  of  the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Company,  and  the  senior 

management and employees of the Group for the year 2019; and

(iv)  reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  or  determined  with  delegated  responsibilities,  as  the  case  may  be, 
in accordance with the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, the remuneration packages of the 
Directors of the Company, and the senior management of the Group for the year 2020.

No Director was involved in determining his/her own remuneration.

d.  Nomination Committee

The  Nomination  Committee  was  established  in  2012  and  is  currently  comprising  of  Mr.  Xu  Lirong  (chairman 
of  the  Nomination  Committee),  Mr.  Yan  Jun,  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  Dr.  Chung  Shui  Ming  Timpson  and 
Mr.  Yang  Liang  Yee  Philip,  majority  of  whom  are  the  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors  of  the  Company. 
Mr. Xiao Junguang acts as the secretary of the Nomination Committee (with effect from 5th August 2020).

The primary duties of the Nomination Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review  and  recommend  to  the  Board  the  Nomination  Policy  on  the  selection  criteria  of  the  potential 
candidates for the directorship of the Company;

review and recommend to the Board the succession plan to ensure the stability of the Board to complement 
the Company’s corporate strategy;

review and report annually on the implementation of the Board Diversity Policy and the Nomination Policy of 
the Company, and progress (if relevant);

review  the  structure,  size  and  composition  (including  gender,  age,  cultural  and  education  background, 
ethnicity,  skills,  knowledge,  industry  experience  and  length  of  service)  of  the  Board  at  least  annually  and 
recommend any proposed change to the Board to complement the Company’s corporate strategy;

receive  from  the  Board  referral  of  suitable  qualified  candidate  for  it  to  assess  if  the  potential  candidate 
meets  the  selection  criteria,  which  shall  be  based  on  the  Nomination  Policy  and  the  Board  Diversity  Policy 
appropriate  for  the  Group’s  strategic  focus  and  specific  business  needs;  assess  and  recommend  to  the  Board 
for approval the nomination of a selected candidate as a director of the Company either to fill a casual vacancy 
or as an addition to the existing Board and/or a member of any Board committee of the Company;

review  and  recommend  to  the  Board  the  appointment  or  re-appointment/re-election  of  Directors  and 
succession  plan  for  the  Directors  to  maintain  a  balance  of  skills,  knowledge,  experience  and  diversity  of 
perspectives of the Board;

assess and report to the Board the qualifications of any person proposed by a shareholder of the Company for 
election as a director of the Company to ensure compliance with the Nomination Policy of the Company and 
the requirements as provided in the Listing Rules are satisfied;

– 

assess the independence of the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

7171

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

regularly  review  and  report  to  the  Board  the  contribution  required  by  a  Director  to  perform  his/her 
responsibilities and whether he is spending sufficient time in performing them;

assess  the  performance  of  the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Company  and  conduct  a  regular  evaluation  of  the 
Board’s  performance  by  members  of  the  Nomination  Committee,  who  are  the  Independent  Non-Executive 
Directors of the Company, and report results of the evaluation to the Board; and to

review the appointment of the chairman of the board and the chief executive officer of the principal division 
of the Group and report result of the review to the Board of the Company for consideration and approval.

The Nomination Committee passed resolutions by way of written resolution in year 2020. The work performed by 
the Nomination Committee during the year 2020 includes:

(i) 

reviewed the Nomination Policy of the Company;

(ii)  reviewed the procedures for appointment of new Directors of the Company and plans for orderly succession;

(iii)  reviewed the implementation of the Board Diversity Policy of the Company;

(iv)  reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board of the Company;

(v)  reviewed and recommended to the Board on the changes in the directorship and officership of the Company 

and the changes in the membership of certain committees of the Company;

(vi)  recommended re-election of the retiring directors at the Last AGM;

(vii)  assessed the independence of the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

(viii) reviewed the contribution of the Directors of the Company for the year 2019; 

(ix)  evaluated performance of the Board and assessed performance of the Executive Directors of the Company by 
members of the Nomination Committee, who are the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company, 
in accordance with the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee; and

(x)   reviewed and recommended to the Board on the change of composition of the board of directors and certain 

committees of the principal division of the Group.

The Board Diversity Policy is summarised as follows:

– 

– 

– 

the Company ensures that its Board has the appropriate balance of skills, breadth of experience, independence 
and  objectivity,  engagement  and  credibility,  rigour  and  structure  and  diversity  of  perspectives  of  the  Board 
required to support the execution of its strategic focus and specific business needs in order for the Board to be 
effective;

selection  of  candidates  will  be  based  on  a  range  of  perspectives,  including  but  not  limited  to  gender,  age, 
cultural and educational background, ethnicity, industry experience, skills, knowledge and length of service. 
The  Board’s  appointment  should  be  based  on  meritocracy  and  diversity  of  perspectives  appropriate  for  the 
Company’s strategic focus and specific business needs and the contribution that the selected candidates will 
bring to the Board; and

the  Nomination  Committee  will  take  into  consideration  of  the  Board  Diversity  Policy  in  identifying  and 
nominating suitable qualified candidates to become members of the Board, and shall ensure that the selected 
candidates  shall  have  the  breadth  of  experience,  independence  and  objectivity,  engagement  and  credibility, 
rigour and structure.

72

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

The Nomination Policy is summarised as follows:

– 

– 

the Board is responsible for the selection and appointment of Directors of the Company and for nomination of 
the Directors of the Company for election by the shareholders of the Company thereafter at regular intervals 
by  rotation  so  as  to  achieve  a  balance  of  skills,  experience  and  diversity  of  perspectives  appropriate  to  the 
requirements  of  the  Company’s  strategic  focus  and  specific  business  needs.  The  Nomination  Committee  is 
responsible for evaluating and nominating candidates for approval by the Board.

the  Nomination  Committee  will  assess  if  the  potential  candidate  meets  the  selection  criteria,  which  shall  be 
based on the Nomination Policy and the Board Diversity Policy appropriate for the Company’s strategic focus 
and  specific  business  needs  under  the  formalised  procedure  for  selection  and  appointment  of  the  Directors 
of  the  Company  and  key  management  of  the  principal  division  of  the  Group.  Contribution  by  the  potential 
candidate shall bring to the Board reflecting the following:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

structure, size and composition of the current Board;

time commitment to the Board;

diversity of the Board in all its aspects as set out in the Board Diversity Policy;

reputation and integrity;

Board succession plan;

requirements as provided in the Listing Rules; and

other factors that the Board may consider appropriate.

– 

the  Nomination  Committee  will  monitor  and  review  the  Nomination  Policy  periodically  to  ensure  that  it 
remains  relevant  to  the  Company’s  strategic  focus  and  business  needs  and  reflects  both  current  regulatory 
requirements and good corporate governance.

e.  Risk Committee 

The  Risk  Committee  was  established  in  2015  and  is  currently  comprised  of  Mr.  Huang  Xiaowen  (appointed  as 
the  chairman  of  the  Risk  Committee  on  10th  August  2020),  Mr.  Yang  Zhijian,  Mr.  Feng  Boming,  Mr.  Tung  Lieh 
Cheung Andrew, Mr. Yan Jun, Ms. Wang Dan, Mr. Ip Sing Chi, Ms. Cui Hongqin, Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah, Mr. Ye 
Jianping Kenny (appointed as a member of the Risk Committee on 1st April 2020), Mr. Zhang Mingwen, Mr. Chen 
Shuai (appointed as a member of the Risk Committee on 29th October 2020) and Mr. Xiao Junguang (appointed 
as a member of the Risk Committee on 5th August 2020). Mr. Lam Tuen Pei Pius acts as the secretary of the Risk 
Committee (with effect from 24th August 2020).

The primary duties of the Risk Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

establish  risk  appetite,  risk  management  strategy,  and  a  strong  and  independent  internal  control  and  review 
systems;

align strategic direction and business objectives of the Group with risk appetite;

oversight on adequacy of the Group’s risk management policies, process and system. In pursuing the Group’s 
strategic direction and business objectives, aims to optimise risk and return;

– 

identify, assess and manage principal risks to pursue the Group’s strategic and business objective;

7373

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

provide direction on the importance of risk management and risk management culture;

formulate, implement and review environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) strategy of the Group; and to

identify,  assess  and  manage  ESG-related  risks  and  ensure  appropriate  and  effective  ESG  risk  management 
systems are in place.

The Risk Committee held two meetings in year 2020. The work performed by the Risk Committee during the year 
2020 includes: 

(i) 

reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  the  Group’s  risk  appetite,  risk  management  strategy,  risk 
management policies, process and system in pursuit of the Group’s strategic direction and business objectives;

(ii) 

identified, reviewed, assessed and managed principal risks of the Group to pursue the Group’s strategic and 
business objectives;

(iii)  reviewed  and  reported  to  the  Board  the  Company’s  compliance  with  the  SEHK  Code  in  relation  to  risk 

management; and

(iv)  reviewed and reported to the Board the Company’s compliance with the Listing Rules in relation to the ESG 

related compliance.

f.  Compliance Committee

The  Compliance  Committee  was  established  in  2004  and  is  currently  comprised  of  Mr.  Yang  Zhijian,  Mr.  Zhang 
Mingwen,  Mr.  Michael  Fitzgerald,  Mr.  Xiao  Junguang  (appointed  as  the  chairman  of  the  Compliance  Committee 
with effect from 5th August 2020), Ms. Lau Siu Ping Karen, Ms. Lai Yuen Ying Vivian and Mr. Lam Tuen Pei Pius. 
The Board has delegated the responsibility for monitoring the corporate governance compliance to the Compliance 
Committee.

The primary duties of the Compliance Committee include to:

– 

review, monitor and provide administrative support on the compliance control of the Group and compliance 
of the following corporate governance functions of the Company:

(a)  on  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  corporate  governance  and  make  recommendations  to  the 

Board;

(b)  on  the  training  and  continuous  professional  development  of  Directors  of  the  Company  and  senior 

management of the Group;

(c)  on the Company’s policies and practices on compliance with legal and regulatory requirements;

(d)  on the development of the code of conduct and compliance manuals (if any) applicable to employees of 

the Group and Directors of the Company;

(e)  on the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and the SEHK Code;

(f) 

to report the above items (a) to (e) to the Board regularly; and

(g) 

to  prepare  (i)  the  Corporate  Governance  Report  covering  all  mandatory  disclosure  requirements  as  set 
out in the Listing Rules; and/or (ii) information required to be disclosed by the Compliance Committee 
in  the  Company’s  results  announcements,  the  annual  reports,  the  interim  reports  and  any  other 
documents, pursuant to the Listing Rules;

74

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

review and report to the Board regularly the shareholders’ communication policy to ensure its effectiveness; 
and to

ensure the Company is in compliance with the Listing Rules including disclosure and compliance obligations 
for  matters  including  notifiable  transactions,  connected  transactions,  continuing  connected  transactions, 
advance  to  an  entity,  financial  assistance  and  guarantees  to  affiliated  companies  of  the  Company,  loan 
agreements  with  covenants  relating  to  specific  performance  of  the  controlling  shareholder  of  the  Company, 
breach of a loan agreement by the Company, disclosure of financial information pursuant to Appendix 16 to 
the Listing Rules, and general obligations of disclosure under rule 13.09 of the Listing Rules.

The Compliance Committee held two meetings in year 2020. The work performed by the Compliance Committee 
during the year 2020 includes:

(i) 

reviewed  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  corporate  governance,  risk  management,  and  made 
recommendations to the Board;

(ii)  reviewed and monitored the training and continuous professional development of Directors of the Company;

(iii)  reviewed  and  monitored  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  compliance  with  legal  and  regulatory 
requirements, particularly on legal, financial and accounting, internal control and audit, risk management and 
ESG related compliance;

(iv)  reviewed and monitored the code of conduct and compliance manuals (if any) applicable to employees of the 

Group and Directors of the Company;

(v)  reviewed the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and the SEHK Code and the disclosure requirements 

in the Corporate Governance Report;

(vi)  reviewed the Company’s compliance with the disclosure requirements in the Sustainability Report;

(vii)  reviewed and reported to the Board on the effectiveness of the shareholders’ communication policy; and

(viii) reviewed  and  reported  to  the  Board  on  the  notifiable  transactions,  connected  transactions,  continuing 

connected transactions and the significant contracts of the Group.

g.  Finance Committee

The  Finance  Committee  was  established  in  1993  and  is  currently  comprised  of  Dr.  Chung  Shui  Ming  Timpson 
(chairman  of  the  Finance  Committee),  Mr.  Yang  Zhijian,  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew,  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu 
Wah, Ms. Chen Ying and Mr. Zhang Mingwen. Mr. Xiao Junguang acts as the secretary of the Finance Committee 
(with effect from 5th August 2020).

The primary duties of the Finance Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

assist in the financial requirements of the Group including financing, refinancing, leasing, purchase and sale 
of vessels, properties and equipment and the financing of the business operations of the Group;

report to the Board on its decisions, and any matter in respect of which it considers that action is needed, and 
its recommendation as to the steps to be taken; and to

discuss  and  review  the  disclosure  obligations  of  the  Company  on  financial,  accounting  or  related  issues 
on  compliance  with  the  Listing  Rules  and  refer  transactions  with  their  recommendations  to  the  Executive 
Committee of the Company for its endorsement and/or approval.

7575

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

h.  Share Committee

The Share Committee was established in 1992 and is currently comprised of Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip (chairman 
of the Share Committee), Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah and Ms. Chen Ying. Mr. Xiao Junguang acts as the secretary of 
the Share Committee (with effect from 5th August 2020).

The primary duties of the Share Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

deal  with  and  grant  approval  on  the  removal  of  the  ordinary  shares  of  the  Company  from  the  Principal 
Register in Bermuda to the Branch Register in Hong Kong, China or vice versa;

deal with the share transactions including, but not limited to, share repurchases, issue of bonus shares, scrip 
dividend schemes, top up placings, share subscriptions and placement of the Company’s shares;

give  authorisation  to  the  Company’s  Principal  Registrar  and  Branch  Registrar  to  issue  share  certificates  to 
the  shareholders  of  the  Company  who  have  reported  loss  of  the  share  certificates  of  the  Company  and  in 
connection with the above share transactions; and to

discuss and review the disclosure obligations of the Company on share transactions and compliance with the 
Listing Rules.

i. 

Inside Information Committee

The  Inside  Information  Committee  was  established  in  2013  and  is  currently  comprised  of  Mr.  Huang  Xiaowen 
(appointed  as  the  chairman  of  the  Inside  Information  Committee  on  10th  August  2020),  Mr.  Yang  Zhijian, 
Mr. Feng Boming, Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew and Mr. Xiao Junguang (appointed as a member of the Inside 
Information Committee on 5th August 2020).

The primary duties of the Inside Information Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

ensure proper systems and control are in place to collect, review and verify potential inside information;

identify, assess and escalate potential inside information to the attention of the Board; report to the Board on 
the  recommendation  of  the  Inside  Information  Committee,  and  any  matter  in  respect  of  which  it  considers 
that  action  is  needed,  and  its  recommendation  as  to  the  actions  to  be  taken  and  what  information  to  be 
disclosed;

vet and clear announcements or other public disclosures; and to

supervise the Company’s compliance with continuing disclosure obligations.

76

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
Corporate Governance Report

9.  Attendance Records of Board Meetings, Board Committees Meetings and General Meetings

The  attendance  records  of  each  Director  and  each  member  of  the  Board  Committees  of  the  Company  at  the  relevant 
meetings held in year 2020 are as follows:

Actual Attendance/Number of Meetings a Director is entitled to attend 

Executive 
Committee

Audit 
Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

Nomination 
Committee

Risk 
Committee

Compliance 
Committee

Finance 
Committee

Share 
Committee

Inside 
Information 
Committee

General 
Meetings

No. of meetings held during the year

Board

5

Executive Directors
Mr. Xu Lirong (Chairman) 
Mr. Huang Xiaowen  

(Chief Executive Officer) (Note 1)

Mr. Yang Zhijian 
Mr. Feng Boming 
Mr. Wang Haimin (Note 2)

Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew 
Mr. Yan Jun
Ms. Wang Dan
Mr. Ip Sing Chi
Ms. Cui Hongqin

Independent Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip 
Ms. Chen Ying 
Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung 

Others
Mr. Ye Jianping Kenny (Note 3)
Mr. Zhang Mingwen 
Mr. Chen Shuai (Note 4)
Mr. Xiao Junguang (Note 5)
Mr. Michael Fitzgerald
Mr. Lam Tuen Pei Pius 
Ms. Lau Siu Ping Karen (Note 6)
Ms. Lai Yuen Ying Vivian (Note 6)
Ms. Lammy Lee (Note 7)
Mr. Fung Yee Chung Vincent (Note 8)

4/5
3/3

5/5
4/5
2/2

5/5
4/5
4/5
5/5
3/5

5/5
4/5
5/5
5/5
5/5

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

2

2/2
2/2

2/2
2/2
N/A

–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

2

–
–

–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–

2/2
1/2
2/2
2/2
2/2

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

2

–
–

–
1/2
–

–
–
–
–
–

2/2
–
2/2
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

0

N/A
–

–
–
–

–
N/A
–
–
–

N/A
N/A
N/A
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

2

–
1/1

1/2
2/2
1/1

2/2
2/2
2/2
2/2
2/2

2/2
–
–
–
–

1/1
2/2
N/A
1/1
–
–
–
–
1/1
–

2

–
–

0/2
–
–

–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–

–
2/2
–
1/1
2/2
2/2
1/1
1/1
1/1
1/1

0

–
–

N/A
–
–

N/A
–
–
–
–

N/A
N/A
–
N/A
–

–
N/A
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

N/A

0

–
–

–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–

N/A
–
N/A
N/A
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

N/A

0

–
N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
N/A
–
–
–
–
N/A
–

N/A

2

1/2
1/1

2/2
1/2
0/1

2/2
0/2
1/2
2/2
2/2

2/2
2/2
2/2
1/2
2/2

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

73.33%

Average attendance rate

90.67%

100%

90%

83.33%

N/A

96.43%

85.71%

Notes:

1. 

Appointed as an Executive Director, the Chief Executive Officer, a member of the Executive Committee and the chairman of the Inside 

Information Committee and the Risk Committee of the Company on 10th August 2020.

2. 

Resigned as an Executive Director, the Chief Executive Officer, a member of the Executive Committee and the chairman of the Inside 

Information Committee and the Risk Committee of the Company on 10th August 2020.

Appointed as a member of the Risk Committee on 1st April 2020.

Appointed as a member of the Risk Committee on 29th October 2020.

Appointed as the chairman of the Compliance Committee and a member of the Inside Information Committee and Risk Committee on 

5th August 2020.

Appointed as members of the Compliance Committee on 1st April 2020.

Resigned as the chairperson the Compliance Committee and a member of the Inside Information Committee and Risk Committee on 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

5th August 2020.

8. 

Resigned as a member of the Compliance Committee on 1st April 2020.

7777

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

10.  Securities Transactions by Directors

The  Company  has  adopted  its  own  code  of  conduct  regarding  securities  transactions  by  Directors  on  terms  no  less 
exacting than the required standard set out in the Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers 
(the “Model Code”) contained in Appendix 10 to the Listing Rules.

All Directors of the Company have confirmed, following specific enquiry by the Company, that they have fully complied 
with  the  required  standards  set  out  in  both  the  Company’s  own  code  and  the  Model  Code  for  the  year  ended  31st 
December 2020.

11.  Share Interests of Directors and Senior Management

a.  Directors

Directors’ interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out on pages 89 and 90 of this annual report.

b.  Senior Management (Note)

As at 31st December 2020, the number of ordinary shares of the Company held by the senior management of the 
Group are as follows:

Name

Mr. Kenny Ye
Ms. Chen Xiang
Mr. Chen Shuai
Mr. Zhang Mingwen
Mr. Steve Siu
Mr. Michael Fitzgerald
Mr. Raymond Fung
Mr. Teddy Fung 
Mr. Xiao Junguang
Ms. Wu Yu

Number of ordinary shares held

7,000
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

Note: Biographical details of the senior management as at 31st December 2020 are set out on pages 53 to 55 of this annual report.

12.  Emoluments of Directors and Senior Management 

a.  Emoluments of Directors

The emoluments of the Directors of the Company for the year ended 31st December 2020 are set out on pages 145 
and 146 of this annual report.

78

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

b.  Emoluments of Senior Management

The emoluments of the senior management of the Group for the year ended 31st December 2020 are set out below: 

Emolument bands (US$)

0 – 128,202
128,202 – 256,400
256,401 – 384,600
384,601 – 512,800
512,801 – 641,000
641,001 – 769,200
769,201 – 897,400
897,401 – 1,025,600
1,025,601 – 1,153,800
1,153,801 – 1,282,000
1,282,001 – 1,410,200

Total

Number of individuals 
2020

2
0
1
0
1
1
2
1
3
0
1

12 (Note)

Note: Inclusive of two senior management who ceased as senior management during the year 2020.

B.  ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT

1.  External Auditor

PricewaterhouseCoopers was re-appointed as the Company’s external auditor by the shareholders of the Company at the 
Last AGM until conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company.

The  Company  has  established  a  policy  on  the  appointment  of  external  auditor  in  providing  non-audit  services  to  the 
Group, setting out the principles by which an external auditor may be appointed to provide non-audit services, with a 
view to ensuring the independence of the external auditor.

The fee in respect of audit and non-audit services provided by the external auditor to the Company for the year ended 
31st December 2020 is set out on page 148 note 11 to the consolidated financial statements of this annual report.

2.  Directors’ and Auditor’s Acknowledgement

All  Directors  of  the  Company  have  acknowledged  their  responsibilities  for  preparing  the  consolidated  financial 
statements for the year ended 31st December 2020.

PricewaterhouseCoopers,  the  external  auditor  of  the  Company,  has  acknowledged  the  reporting  responsibilities  in  the 
auditor’s report on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2020.

7979

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

3.  Internal Controls

The  Board  is  responsible  for  establishing  and  maintaining  appropriate  and  effective  internal  control  systems  for  the 
Group,  and  through  the  Audit  Committee,  conducts  reviews  of  the  effectiveness  of  such  systems  at  least  annually, 
covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management functions. 
The process used in reviewing the effectiveness of these internal control systems includes discussion with management 
on risk areas identified by management of the Company and principal division of the Group and review of significant 
issues  arising  from  internal  and  external  audits.  The  Company’s  internal  control  systems  comprise  a  well  established 
organisational structure and comprehensive policies and standards. Procedures have been designed to safeguard assets 
against  unauthorised  use  or  disposition,  to  maintain  proper  accounting  records,  for  assurance  of  the  reliability  of 
financial  information  for  internal  use  or  publication,  and  to  ensure  compliance  with  applicable  laws  and  regulations. 
The  purpose  of  the  Company’s  internal  control  is  to  provide  reasonable,  but  not  absolute,  assurance  against  material 
misstatement or loss and to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure in operational systems and achievement of the 
Company’s objectives.

The Board has established the following measures to provide effective internal controls:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

a  distinct  organisational  structure  for  the  principal  division  with  defined  authority  responsibilities  and  control/
measures;

an  annual  budget  for  the  principal  division  allocating  resources  in  accordance  with  identified  and  prioritised 
business opportunities. The annual budget for the principal division is approved by the Board on an annual basis;

a  comprehensive  management  accounting  system  for  the  principal  division  to  provide  financial  and  operational 
performance  indicators  to  the  relevant  management,  and  financial  information  for  reporting  and  disclosure 
purposes. Actual operational results are measured against budget each month. Detailed forecasts for the year and 
long-term forecasts of profit and loss, cash flow and balance sheets are regularly reviewed and updated. Variances 
to budget are analysed and explained and appropriate action taken, if necessary;

systems and procedures are in place to identify, measure, manage and control risks including business, compliance, 
operational,  financial  and  information  services  risks  that  may  have  an  impact  on  the  Group  and  the  principal 
division.  Exposure  to  these  risks  is  monitored  by  the  Executive  Committee  of  the  Company  and  the  board  of 
directors, the executive committee and the management of the principal division;

clearly defined procedures are in place for the control of capital and major expenditure commitments, off-balance 
sheet financial instruments and the supervision, control and review of the investment portfolio; and

the  Internal  Audit  Department  performs  independent  reviews  of  the  risks  and  controls  identified  to  provide 
reasonable  assurance  to  management  of  the  Company  and  principal  division  and  the  Audit  Committee  that 
controls have been set in place and adequately addressed.

The  internal  audit  function,  which  is  centrally  controlled,  monitors  compliance  with  policies  and  standards  as  well  as 
the effectiveness of internal control structures across the Company and the Group. To preserve the independence of the 
internal audit function, the Head of Internal Audit reports functionally to the Audit Committee whose chairman is an 
Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company who has direct access to the Board. Using a risk-based approach, 
the  Internal  Audit  Department  plans  its  internal  audit  schedules  annually  in  consultation  with,  but  independent  of, 
management  of  the  Company  and  the  principal  division.  The  Internal  Audit  Department  has  unrestricted  access  to 
information  that  allows  it  to  review  all  aspects  of  the  Group’s  risk  management,  control  and  governance  processes. 
Independent  reviews  of  different  financial,  business  and  functional  operations  and  activities  are  conducted  with  audit 
resources  being  focused  on  high  risk  areas.  Ad  hoc  reviews  are  also  conducted  on  areas  of  concern  identified  by  the 
Audit Committee and management of the Company and the principal division. The management of the Company and 
the  principal  division  including  the  affected  subsidiary  are  notified  of  the  deficiencies  noted  for  rectification,  and  the 
Internal Audit Department follows up with the implementation of audit recommendations.

80

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board assesses the effectiveness of the internal control system including detecting 
fraud and other irregularities by reviewing the Internal Audit Department’s work and findings. On a half-yearly basis, 
the Internal Audit Department summarises the major audit findings and other relevant information that have come to 
the Internal Audit Department’s attention during the course of the audits and reports to the Audit Committee.

According to the 2020 Internal Audit report, the Group’s internal control system was functioning effectively, there was 
no significant weakness found in the course of the audits carried out during the year, and there was no change in the 
nature and extent of significant risks as well as the scope and quality of management’s ongoing monitoring of the risks 
and the internal control system. The Audit Committee has concluded that the Group has maintained sound and effective 
internal  controls  to  safeguard  the  Group’s  assets,  and  there  is  an  ongoing  process  in  place  for  identifying,  evaluating 
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The Board, therefore, is of the view that there are no significant 
frauds,  irregularities,  internal  control  deficiencies  or  suspected  infringement  of  laws,  rules  and  regulations  that  cause 
the Board to believe that the systems of internal control are ineffective or inadequate, and there are no significant areas 
of concern which may affect the shareholders of the Company. The Board is satisfied that the Company and the Group 
have fully complied with the code provisions on internal control as set forth in the SEHK Code for the year ended 31st 
December 2020.

To  ensure  on-going  compliance  with  the  SEHK  Code,  the  Audit  Committee  reviewed  the  adequacy  of  staffing  of  the 
accounting, internal audit and financial reporting functions on behalf of the Board and was satisfied with the adequacy 
of  resources,  staff  qualifications  and  experience,  training  programs  and  budget  of  the  Company’s  accounting,  internal 
audit and financial reporting functions.

The  Company  has  implemented  the  following  procedures  and  internal  controls  for  the  handling  and  dissemination  of 
inside information:

a) 

it monitors any inside information and makes appropriate announcement as required by the Listing Rules;

b) 

it conducts its affairs by reference to the “Guidelines on Disclosure of Inside Information” issued by the Securities 
and Futures Commission;

c) 

it has established procedures for handling external affairs about the Group; and

d) 

it has established guidelines to be followed by senior management and employees in dealing with confidential and 
inside information.

4.  Risk Management 

The Board acknowledges that risks are inherent in our business and the market in which we operate, and we undertake 
and monitor risks in pursuit of our strategic and business objectives. Our approach is if risks are effectively managed, 
it  can  be  a  value  driver  for  competitive  advantage  and  the  exercising  of  risk  management  abilities  can  become  an 
advantage to differentiate the Group from its competitors.

The Group has built and maintained sound and effective risk management and internal control systems to safeguard the 
Group’s  assets,  but  not  absolute  assurance  against  material  misstatement  or  loss  and  to  manage  rather  than  eliminate 
risks  of  failure  in  operational  systems  and  achievement  of  the  Group’s  strategic  business  objectives.  In  the  context  of 
the  Group’s  capital  structure  and  business  models;  it  would  re-assess  the  risk  appetite  on  a  regular  basis,  taking  into 
consideration  the  Group’s  business  strategy  and  return  targets.  The  risk  strategy  of  the  Group,  adopting  a  proactive 
approach, would be determined upon analysis results for a specific risk through the risk management process; and once 
risk is identified based on the risk strategy, it will be managed so that it can be understood, minimised, transferred or 
contained, through a group-wide risk management framework.

8181

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

The Risk Committee delegates to the management, the design and setting of risk management parameters, who would 
work  with  relevant  stakeholders  of  its  business  and  operation  units  to  identify  key  risk  areas  to  be  assessed  and  risk 
control measures formulated to mitigate and guide each local and regional office. The key risk management areas would 
be  regularly  reviewed  to  identify  areas  for  improvement,  from  which  where  necessary,  the  development  of  policies 
and procedures for the Group to manage and control risks that might have an impact on the Group and the principal 
division  including  potential  risks  in  critical  business  areas  that  are  both  strategic  and  operational  levels,  to  ensure 
business continuity, to optimise business result, and to ensure compliance with the relevant rules and regulations.

The Risk Committee reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems and 
internal audits are conducted as part of ongoing review on the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control 
systems. Emerging risks that may have an impact on the Group are also discussed in the Risk Committee meetings and 
shared with the Audit Committee.

The  Group’s  risk  management  organisation  structure  has  a  “top-down”  approach  on  oversight,  risk  identification  and 
assessment, and mitigation of risk at corporate level; and a “bottom-up” approach on risk identification and assessment, 
and mitigation of risk at business unit level and cross functional areas for its risk management.

Based  on  the  Group  risk  management  principles  and  culture  in  taking  justifiable  calculated  risk  in  business  decision 
after identifying the inherent risks, exploring possible mitigation and assessing all relevant costs and benefits as a result 
of the decision; and promoting a risk-intelligent culture in the organisation, in which a risk-averse, risk-seeking or risk-
neutral attitude might be adopted as and when the circumstances justified; risk management policy is set up to ensure 
common understanding of risk principles and encouraging a risk intelligent culture on a group-wide level. Our policies 
and guidelines are periodically reviewed and amended when considered necessary in line with the dynamic changes in
our business environment and operations.

The Group has (i) a formalised enterprise risk management (“ERM”) process, taking into consideration of the Group’s 
organisation  structure  and  nature  of  business;  and  (ii)  developed  a  risk  register  with  a  principal  risk  dashboard  that 
summarises  major  risks  whose  potential  consequences  are  significant  at  group  level  and  may  trigger  risk  events  that 
in  aggregate,  become  significant  to  the  Group  as  at  a  given  time,  and  a  functional  risk  dashboard.  This  provides  a 
point-in-time assessment of the risk profile of the Group for the Risk Committee and the Board on the nature and extent 
of the risks faced by the Group.

The  Group  has  adopted  an  activity-based  “three  lines  of  defence”  risk  governance  model  to  delegate  and  coordinate 
essential risk management and control duties in a clear and cohesive manner:

a)  First line of defence – Functional units establish risk and control environments in the Group’s day-to-day business 
operations,  and  as  risk  owners,  are  responsible  for  risk  identification,  formulation  of  risk  mitigation  strategy  and 
upward reporting of risk monitoring progress;

b) 

Second  line  of  defence  –  The  Risk  Management  Department  monitors  the  risk  management  system  and  internal 
control  systems  to  ensure  its  effectiveness  and  facilitates  the  development  and  setting  of  policies  and  guidelines 
and its effective implementation of the risk management and internal control systems. It also provides advice and 
guidance to the first-line functional units on implementation of the risk management and internal control systems; 
and

c)  Third line of defence – The Internal Audit Department provides independent review on the effectiveness of the risk 

management and internal control systems.

82

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

The  Group’s  ERM  process  is  underpinned  by  its  risk  culture,  which  is  aligned  to  the  overall  ethics  and  culture  of 
the  Group.  The  ERM  process  consists  of  eight  process  components:  internal  environment,  objective  setting,  risk 
identification, risk assessment, risk response, control activities, communication and monitoring; and is used to identify, 
evaluate and manage the significant risks to the Group. The functional units translate the risk events and incorporate the 
Group  risk  appetite  into  quantitative  tolerance  limits  to  monitor  and  manage  the  identified  material  risks  in  line  with 
the Board’s strategy; before communicating their recommended mitigation plans to the Risk Management Department. 
The  Group  risk  register  allows  categorisation  and  prioritisation  of  risks,  risk  documentation  and  reporting,  and  the 
monitoring of the ongoing development of risks.

For the year ended 31st December 2020, following management confirmation to the Risk Committee on its scope and 
quality  of  its  ongoing  risks  monitoring  and  internal  control  systems;  and  satisfaction  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  risk 
management and internal control systems with no significant control failings or weaknesses and no significant areas of 
concern identified which might affect the shareholders of the Company, the Risk Committee has reported twice to the 
Board on their review and confirmation of its satisfaction on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and 
internal control systems, including the scope and quality of the Group’s ongoing monitoring of risks.

The  Board  confirmed  that  the  Group’s  risk  management  and  internal  control  systems  are  functioning  adequately  and 
effectively. The Board is satisfied that the Company and the Group have fully complied with the code provisions on risk 
management as set forth in the SEHK Code for the year ended 31st December 2020.

C.  COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS

The  Company  attaches  great  importance  to  communications  with  the  shareholders  of  the  Company.  Extensive  information 
on  the  Group’s  activities,  business  strategy  and  developments  is  provided  in  the  Company’s  annual  reports  and  interim 
reports. Shareholders of the Company are encouraged to attend the general meetings of the Company which offer a valuable 
forum for dialogue and interaction with management of the Company. The Chairman of the Board and the chairpersons of 
the  Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee,  the  Nomination  Committee  and  other  Board  committees,  or  in  their 
absence,  other  members  of  the  relevant  committees,  are  available  at  the  annual  general  meetings  to  answer  questions  from 
shareholders on the business of the Group. A separate resolution would be proposed by the chairman of the general meetings 
in respect of each agenda item at the general meetings.

The  Company  has  also  established  a  shareholders’  communication  policy  to  ensure  shareholders  are  provided  with  ready, 
equal and timely access to balanced and understandable information about the Company. The policy is regularly reviewed to 
ensure its effectiveness and is available on written request to the Company Secretary.

Since the publication of the Company’s 2010 interim report, the Company has offered to the shareholders of the Company 
the  following  options  to  choose  the  language  and  means  of  receipt  of  the  corporate  communications  of  the  Company  in 
support of environment protection and for the purpose of saving printing and mailing costs:

(1) 

to  read  the  corporate  communication  posted  on  the  Company’s  website  at  http://www.ooilgroup.com  in  place  of 
receiving printed copies, and to receive an e-mail notification or a printed notification letter (as the case may be) of the 
publication of the corporate communication on website; or

(2) 

to  receive  either  the  printed  English  version,  the  printed  Chinese  version  or  both  the  printed  English  and  Chinese 
versions of the Company’s corporate communication.

8383

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

D.  SHAREHOLDERS’ RIGHTS

1.  Convening a special general meeting

Pursuant to the Bermuda Companies Act and the Company’s Bye-law, the shareholder(s) of the Company holding not 
less than one-tenth of the paid up capital of the Company having the right to vote at general meetings of the Company 
shall have the right, by written requisition sent to the Company’s registered office at Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, 
Hamilton  HM11,  Bermuda  and  to  the  Company’s  principal  office  at  31st  Floor,  Harbour  Centre,  25  Harbour  Road, 
Wanchai, Hong Kong, China, for the attention of the Company Secretary of the Company, to require a special general 
meeting to be called by the Board for the transaction of any business specified in such requisition.

The written requisition must state the purpose of the general meeting, signed by the shareholder(s) concerned and may 
consist of several documents in like form, each signed by one or more of those shareholders.

Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  Company’s  branch  share  registrar  (the  “Registrar”)  that  the  shareholder(s) 
submitting  the  requisition  is/are  qualified  to  attend  and  vote  at  a  general  meeting,  the  Company  will  convene  a 
special general meeting by serving sufficient notice in accordance with the statutory requirements to all the registered 
shareholders of the Company.

2.  Putting forward proposals at general meetings

The  shareholder(s)  of  the  Company  holding  not  less  than  one-twentieth  of  the  total  voting  rights  of  all  shareholders 
having the right to vote at the general meeting of the Company; or not less than 100 shareholders of the Company, can 
submit:

(i)  a written request stating the resolution intended to be moved at an annual general meeting; or

(ii)  a statement of not more than 1,000 words with respect to the matter referred to in any proposed resolution or the 

business to be dealt with at a particular general meeting.

The  written  request/statement  must  be  signed  by  the  shareholder(s)  concerned  and  deposited  at  the  Company’s 
registered  office  at  Clarendon  House,  2  Church  Street,  Hamilton  HM11,  Bermuda  and  to  the  Company’s  principal 
office at 31st Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong, China, for the attention of the Company 
Secretary of the Company, not less than six weeks before the general meeting in the case of a requisition requiring notice 
of a resolution, and not less than one week before the general meeting in the case of any other requisition.

Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  Registrar  of  the  Company  that  the  shareholder(s)  making  the  proposal  is/are 
qualified to attend and vote at the general meeting, the Company will:

(i) 

include the resolution in the agenda for the general meeting; or

(ii)  circulate the statement for the general meeting,

provided that the shareholder(s) concerned has deposited a sum of money sufficient to meet the Company’s expenses in 
serving the notice of the resolution and/or circulating the statement to all the registered shareholders.

3.  Putting enquiries to the Board

Shareholders  who  have  enquiries  to  put  to  the  Board  of  the  Company  may  write  to  the  Company  Secretary  of  the 
Company at 31st Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong, China.

84

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

4.  Dividends

Shareholders  of  the  same  class  of  shares  shall  have  equal  rights  to  dividends  and  distributions.  In  2018,  the  Company 
formally  adopted  a  dividend  policy  (the  “Dividend  Policy”)  that  balances  the  objectives  of  appropriately  rewarding 
the  shareholders  for  their  investment  and  retaining  reserves  for  long-term  development  and  future  expansion  of  the 
Company, and enhances transparency facilitating shareholders and investors to make informed investment decisions.

The  Dividend  Policy  has  a  target  annual  dividend  payout  of  40%  of  the  consolidated  net  profit  attributed  to  the 
shareholders  of  the  Company  in  the  financial  years  of  2021,  2022  and  2023,  and  the  Company’s  annual  dividend 
payment  shall  not  be  less  than  US$400  million  in  the  aforesaid  financial  years,  whether  as  interim  and/or  final 
dividends,  subject  to,  inter  alia,  the  financial  performance,  liquidity  position,  future  plans  and  working  capital 
requirements  of  the  Company  and  the  prevailing  economic,  financial,  business  and  regulatory  circumstances.  The 
Company may also declare special dividends from time to time in addition to the semi-annual dividends.

The  declaration  of  dividends  is  subject  to  the  sole  discretion  of  the  Board.  There  can  be  no  assurance  that  dividends 
will  be  paid  in  any  particular  amount  of  any  given  period.  The  Dividend  Policy  shall  not  constitute  a  legally  binding 
document in respect of future dividend declaration of the Company and/or in no way oblige the Company to declare a 
dividend at any time or from time to time. The distribution and payment of dividends of the Company will be subject to 
compliance with the Company’s Bye-laws and applicable laws and regulations.

Details of the dividend paid by the Company during the year 2020 are set out on page 150 of this annual report.

E.  INVESTOR RELATIONS

The Company continues to promote and enhance investor relations and communication with its investors. The Company’s 
investor  relations  team  maintains  regular  dialogue  with  institutional  investors,  analysts  and  fund  managers  to  keep  them 
abreast of the Group’s development.

Shareholders, investors and members of the public are able to access up-to-date corporate information and events related to 
the Group on the Company’s website.

1.  Shareholding Information

As at 31st December 2020:

–  Authorised  share  capital:  US$205,000,000,  comprising  900,000,000  ordinary  shares  of  US$0.1  each,  65,000,000 
limited voting convertible redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each and 50,000,000 redeemable preferred shares of 
US$1 each.

– 

Issued and fully-paid up capital: US$62,579,329.7 comprising 625,793,297 ordinary shares of US$0.1 each.

–  Details of the shareholding of the ordinary shares of the Company by the type of shareholders as at 31st December 

2020 are as follows:

Type of Shareholders

Corporate
Individual

Total

Number of 
Shareholders

Shareholders 
% of total

2.8520%
97.1480%

16
545

561

Number 
of Shares

624,753,662
1,039,635

100%

625,793,297

8585

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Corporate Governance Report

–  Details  of  the  shareholding  of  the  ordinary  shares  of  the  Company  by  range  as  at  31st  December  2020  are  as 

follows:

Size of shareholdings

1 – 10,000

10,001 – 100,000

100,001 – 1,000,000

1,000,001 or above

Total

Number of 

Shareholders 

Shareholders

542

15

1

3

561

% of total

96.6132%

2.6738%

0.1782%

0.5348%

100%

As at the date of this annual report, the issued and fully-paid up capital of the Company is US$63,719,329.7 comprising 
637,193,297 ordinary shares of US$0.1 each.

2.  Public Float

Based  on  information  that  is  publicly  available  to  the  Company  and  within  the  knowledge  of  the  Directors  of  the 
Company, the Company maintained at least 25% of public float as at 31st December 2020.

3.  Financial Calendar

Important dates for the coming financial year are set out on page 56 of this annual report.

4.  Memorandum of Association and Bye-Laws

There were no changes to the memorandum of association and bye-laws of the Company during the year 2020, and the 
consolidated version is available on the websites of the Company and the Stock Exchange.

86

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
Report of the Directors

Report of the Directors

The  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Company  (the  “Board”)  presents  this  report  together  with  the  audited  consolidated  financial 
statements for the year ended 31st December 2020.

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The principal activity of the Company is investment holding, and the activities of its principal subsidiaries, associated companies 
and joint ventures are set out on pages 185 to 195 of this annual report.

GROUP RESULTS
The consolidated results of the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Group”) are set out on page 108 of 
this annual report.

DIVIDENDS
An  interim  dividend  of  US4.89  cents  (HK$0.381  at  the  exchange  rate  of  US$1:  HK$7.8)  per  ordinary  share  was  paid  on  23rd 
October 2020.

The Board has recommended the payment of a final dividend of US50.26 cents (HK$3.920 at the exchange rate of US$1: HK$7.8) 
per ordinary share and a special dividend of US86.6 cents (HK$6.755 at the exchange rate of US$1: HK$7.8) per ordinary share 
for the year ended 31st December 2020 to be paid on 29th June 2021 to the shareholders of the Company whose names appear on 
the register of members of the Company on 1st June 2021. Shareholders should complete the dividend election form (if applicable) 
and return it to the Company’s Hong Kong branch share registrar, Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited at 17M 
Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong, not later than 4:30 p.m. on 21st June 2021.

BUSINESS REVIEW
A  review  of  the  business  of  the  Group  and  an  analysis  of  the  Group’s  performance  during  the  year  are  provided  in  Chairman’s 
Statement on pages 10 to 13, Operations Review on pages 14 to 21 and Financial Review sections on pages 30 to 45 of this annual 
report.  Description  of  the  principal  risks  and  uncertainties  that  the  Group  is  facing  can  be  found  in  Chairman’s  Statement  on 
pages  10  to  13  and  Operations  Review  on  pages  14  to  21.  Also,  the  financial  risk  management  objectives  and  policies  of  the 
Group can be found in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. The Group’s future business development is provided in 
Chairman’s Statement on pages 10 to 13 and Operations Review on pages 14 to 21 of this annual report. In addition, discussions 
on the Group’s environmental policies and performance and compliance with the relevant laws and regulations and an account of 
the Group’s key relationships with its employees, customers and suppliers and stakeholders, that have a significant impact on the 
Group are contained in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 22 to 29 of this annual report and in the Company’s 2020 
Sustainability Report to be published in accordance with the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of 
Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”).

8787

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Report of the Directors

DIRECTORS
The Directors of the Company during the year and up to the date of this report were:

Executive Directors

Mr. Xu Lirong (Chairman)
Mr. Huang Xiaowen (Chief Executive Officer) (Note 1)
Mr. Yang Zhijian
Mr. Feng Boming
Mr. Wang Haimin (Note 2)

Non-Executive Directors

Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Yan Jun
Ms. Wang Dan
Mr. Ip Sing Chi
Ms. Cui Hongqin

Independent Non-Executive Directors

Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip
Ms. Chen Ying
Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung

Notes:

1. 

2. 

appointed as an Executive Director and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company with effect from 10th August 2020.

resigned as an Executive Director and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company with effect from 10th August 2020.

In  accordance  with  bye-laws  87(2)  and  87(3)  of  the  Bye-laws  of  the  Company  (the  “Bye-laws”),  Mr.  Yan  Jun,  Ms.  Wang  Dan, 
Ms. Cui Hongqin, Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip and Ms. Chen Ying will retire by rotation and, being eligible, will offer themselves for 
re-election at the annual general meeting of the Company to be held on 21st May 2021 (the “Annual General Meeting”).

None  of  the  Directors  has  a  service  contract  with  the  Company  or  any  of  its  subsidiaries  which  is  not  determinable  by  the 
employing company within one year without payment of compensation, other than statutory compensation.

The  Company  has  received  from  each  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company,  confirmation  of  his/her 
independence pursuant to rule 3.13 of the Listing Rules and considers all of them are independent.

DIRECTORS’ RIGHTS TO ACQUIRE SHARES OR DEBENTURES
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries was a party to any arrangement to enable the Directors of the Company to acquire 
benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate at any time during 
the year or at the end of the year.

88

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Report of the Directors

DIRECTORS’ AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S INTERESTS

1.  Significant Contracts

During  the  period  from  1st  January  2020  to  2nd  September  2020  (the  “Period”),  the  Group  shared  the  rental  of  office 
premises  at  Harbour  Centre,  Hong  Kong  on  an  actual  cost  reimbursement  basis  with  Island  Navigation  Corporation 
International Limited (“INCIL”) and such arrangement was terminated as of 3rd September 2020. The total amount of rental 
on an actual cost reimbursement basis paid by INCIL to the Group for the Period was approximately US$1,287,000.

During the Period, INCIL was owned by trusts related to Tung family members, to whom Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew, a 
Non-Executive Director of the Company, was related.

Except for the above (other than contracts amongst Group companies), no other contracts or arrangements of significance in 
relation to the Group’s business to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party, and in which a Director of the 
Company had a material interest, subsisted at the year end or at any time during the year.

2.  Shares

As at 31st December 2020, the issued share capital of the Company consisted of 625,793,297 ordinary shares (the “Shares”). 
The  interests  and  short  positions  of  the  Directors  and  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Company  in  the  Shares,  the  underlying 
Shares  and  the  debentures  of  the  Company  or  any  of  its  associated  corporations  (within  the  meaning  of  Part  XV  of  the 
Securities and Futures Ordinance (“SFO”)) as recorded in the register kept by the Company pursuant to Section 352 of the 
SFO or otherwise notified to the Company and The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Stock Exchange”) pursuant 
to  the  Model  Code  for  Securities  Transactions  by  Directors  of  Listed  Issuers  (the  “Model  Code”)  contained  in  the  Listing 
Rules, were as follows as at 31st December 2020:

(a) 

Interests and short positions in the Shares, the underlying Shares and the debentures of the Company:

Nil.

(b)  Long Positions in the shares of the associated corporations of the Company:

Name of associated 
corporation

COSCO SHIPPING 
Holdings Co., Ltd.

Name of Director Capacity

Yang Zhijian

Beneficial owner

COSCO SHIPPING 

Yang Zhijian

Beneficial owner

Development Co., Ltd.

Feng Boming

Beneficial owner

Number of 
ordinary 
shares held 
as personal 
interest

Total 
number 
of shares
 interested

100,000 
(H Shares)

100,000 
(H Shares)

400,000 
(H Shares)

400,000 
(H Shares)

29,100 
(A Shares)

29,100 
(A Shares)

COSCO SHIPPING  
Ports Limited

Feng Boming

Beneficial owner

32,379

32,379

Approximate 
percentage of 
total issued 
share capital 
of relevant 
class of 
associated 
corporation

0.00388% 
(Note 1)

0.01088% 
(Note 2)

0.00037% 
(Note 2)

0.00098% 
(Note 3)

8989

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Report of the Directors

(c)  Long Positions in the underlying shares and the debentures of the associated corporation of the Company:

Name of 
associated corporation

Name of 
Director

Capacity

Date of grant

Number of 
outstanding 
share options 
granted 
(Note 4)

Exercise 
price per 
A share

Total 
number 
of shares 
interested

Approximate 
percentage of 
total issued 
share capital 
of relevant 
class of shares 
of associated 
corporation 
(Note 1)

COSCO SHIPPING Holdings 
Co., Ltd. (A Shares)

Yang Zhijian

Beneficial owner

29th May 2020

RMB3.50

936,000

936,000

0.00967%

Feng Boming

Beneficial owner

29th May 2020

RMB3.50

Interest of spouse

3rd June 2019

RMB4.10

1,466,000

0.01515%

936,000

530,000

Notes:

(1)  The shareholding percentage in COSCO SHIPPING Holdings Co., Ltd. (“COSCO SHIPPING Holdings”) was calculated on the basis of 
2,580,600,000 H shares of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings in issue and 9,678,929,227 A shares of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings in issue as 

at 31st December 2020 (as the case may be).

(2)  The  shareholding  percentage  in  COSCO  SHIPPING  Development  Co.,  Ltd.  (“COSCO  SHIPPING  Development”)  was  calculated  on 
the  basis  of  3,676,000,000  H  shares  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Development  in  issue  and  7,932,125,000  A  shares  of  COSCO  SHIPPING 

Development in issue as at 31st December 2020 (as the case may be).

(3)  The  shareholding  percentage  in  COSCO  SHIPPING  Ports  Limited  (“COSCO  SHIPPING  Ports”)  was  calculated  on  the  basis  of 

3,315,296,374 shares of COSCO SHIPPING Ports in issue as at 31st December 2020.

(4)  According  to  the  terms  of  the  Share  Option  Incentive  Scheme  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  (the  “Scheme”)  and  its  amendments 
approved on 18th May 2020, the Scheme is valid for 10 years from 30th May 2019 and the share options shall be vested 24 months after 
the  date  of  grant  (the  “Vesting  Period”).  Subject  to  the  fulfilment  of  the  relevant  conditions  of  exercise,  these  share  options  shall  be 
exercisable in three batches after the expiry of the Vesting Period, i.e. (a) the exercise period of 33% of the share options will commence 

on  the  first  trading  day  after  expiration  of  the  24-month  period  from  the  date  of  grant  and  ending  on  the  last  trading  day  of  the 

36-month period from the date of grant; (b) the exercise period of 33% of the share options will commence on the first trading day after 

expiration of the 36-month period from the date of grant and ending on the last trading day of the 48-month period from the date of 

grant; and (c) the exercise period of 34% of the share options will commence on the first trading day after expiration of the 48-month 

period from the date of grant and ending on the last trading day of the 84-month period from the date of grant. Details of the Scheme are 

set out in the announcements dated 3rd June 2019 and 30th March 2020 of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings (A shares). No consideration 

was paid by the grantees for acceptance of the share options.

Save  as  disclosed  above,  as  at  31st  December  2020,  none  of  the  Directors  or  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Company  had  any 
interest  or  short  position  in  the  Shares,  the  underlying  Shares  and  the  debentures  of  the  Company  or  any  of  its  associated 
corporation (within the meaning of the SFO) which were required to be: (a) notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange 
pursuant to Divisions 7 and 8 of Part XV of the SFO (including interests and short positions which they are taken or deemed 
to have under such provisions of the SFO); or (b) entered in the register kept by the Company pursuant to Section 352 of the 
SFO; or (c) notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange pursuant to the Model Code.

90

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Report of the Directors

3.  Directors’ Interests in Competing Business

China COSCO SHIPPING Corporation Limited (“COSCO SHIPPING”), an indirect controlling shareholder of the Company, 
its  subsidiaries  or  its  associates  are  engaged  in  the  same  business  of  container  shipping,  management  and  operation  of 
container  terminals  and/or  logistic  services  (the  “Competing  Companies”)  as  the  Group.  During  the  year  of  2020,  Mr.  Xu 
Lirong, Mr. Huang Xiaowen, Mr. Yang Zhijian and Mr. Feng Boming, the Executive Directors of the Company, and Mr. Wang 
Haimin,  the  then  Executive  Director  of  the  Company,  were  holding  directorships  and/or  senior  management  positions 
in  COSCO  SHIPPING,  its  subsidiaries  or  its  associates;  Dr.  Chung  Shui  Ming  Timpson,  the  Independent  Non-Executive 
Director of the Company, was an external director of COSCO SHIPPING; Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip, the Independent Non-
Executive Director of the Company, was an independent non-executive director of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings (retired on 
30th November 2020) and COSCO SHIPPING Ports (appointed on 29th April 2020); and Ms. Chen Ying, the Independent 
Non-Executive Director of the Company, was an external director of COSCO SHIPPING Lines Co., Ltd..

As  the  Board  of  the  Company  is  independent  of  the  board  of  directors  of  the  Competing  Companies,  the  Directors  of  the 
Company are of the view that the Group is capable of carrying on its business independently of, and at arm’s length from the 
businesses of the Competing Companies.

Save as disclosed above, so far as the Directors of the Company were aware, none of the Directors of the Company or their 
respective  close  associates  (as  defined  in  the  Listing  Rules)  had  any  interest  in  a  business  which  competed  or  was  likely  to 
compete, either directly or indirectly, with the business of the Group during the year.

MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS
No  contracts  concerning  the  management  and  the  administration  of  the  whole  or  any  substantial  part  of  the  business  of  the 
Company were entered into during the year or subsisted at the end of the year.

9191

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Report of the Directors

SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS’ SHARE INTERESTS
As at 31st December 2020, the following persons (other than the Directors or the Chief Executive of the Company) had an interest 
or short position in the Shares and the underlying Shares which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of 
Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO as recorded in the register required to be kept by the Company under Section 336 of the 
SFO:

Name

Nature of interest

Number of Shares interested 
(Long position)

Percentage

Faulkner Global Holdings Limited

Beneficial owner

469,344,972

COSCO SHIPPING Holdings  

(Hong Kong) Limited

Interest of controlled 
corporation

469,344,972 (Note 1)

COSCO SHIPPING Holdings Co., Ltd.

China Ocean Shipping Company Limited

China COSCO SHIPPING  
Corporation Limited

Interest of controlled 
corporation

Interest of controlled 
corporation

Interest of controlled 
corporation

469,344,972 (Note 2)

469,344,972 (Note 3)

469,344,972 (Notes 3 &4)

Shanghai Port Group (BVI) Development 

Beneficial owner

61,953,536

Co., Limited

Shanghai International Port Group  

(HK) Co., Ltd.

Interest of controlled 
corporation

Shanghai International Port  

(Group) Co., Ltd.

Interest of controlled 
corporation

61,953,536 (Note 5)

61,953,536 (Note 6)

PSD Investco Inc.

Beneficial owner

38,513,150

Green Amber Investment Limited

Silk Road Fund Co., Ltd.

Interest of controlled 
corporation

Interest of controlled 
corporation

Buttonwood Investment Holding  

Company Ltd.

Interest of controlled 
corporation

38,513,150 (Note 7)

38,513,150 (Note 8)

38,513,150 (Note 9)

75%

75%

75%

75%

75%

9.90%

9.90%

9.90%

6.15%

6.15%

6.15%

6.15%

92

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Report of the Directors

Notes:

1. 

COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  (Hong  Kong)  Limited  (“COSCO  SHIPPING  HK”)  held  100%  of  the  shares  of  Faulkner  Global  Holdings  Limited 
(“Faulkner”) and, accordingly, had an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Faulkner had an interest.

2. 

COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  held  100%  of  the  shares  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  HK  and,  accordingly,  had  an  indirect  interest  in  the  same  Shares  in 

which COSCO SHIPPING HK had an interest.

3. 

China Ocean Shipping Company Limited (“China Ocean”) held 37.89% of the shares of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings by itself and its subsidiaries, 
and, accordingly, had an indirect interest in the same Shares in which COSCO SHIPPING Holdings had an interest. COSCO SHIPPING held 8.33% 
of  the  shares  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings.  Both  China  Ocean  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  are  state-owned  enterprises  established  in  the  People’s 
Republic of China.

4. 

COSCO SHIPPING held 100% of the shares of China Ocean and, accordingly, had an indirect interest in the same Shares in which China Ocean had 

an interest.

5. 

Shanghai International Port Group (HK) Co., Ltd. (“SIPG HK”) held 100% of the shares of Shanghai Port Group (BVI) Development Co., Limited 
(“SIPG BVI”) and, accordingly, had an indirect interest in the same Shares in which SIPG BVI had an interest.

6. 

Shanghai International Port (Group) Co., Ltd. held 100% of the shares of SIPG HK and, accordingly, had an indirect interest in the same Shares in 

which SIPG HK had an interest.

7. 

8. 

Green Amber Investment Limited (“Green Amber”) held 100% of the shares of PSD Investco Inc. (“PSD”) and, accordingly, had an indirect interest 
in the same Shares in which PSD had an interest.

Silk Road Fund Co., Ltd. (“Silk Road Fund”) held 100% of the shares of Green Amber and, accordingly, had an indirect interest in the same Shares in 
which Green Amber had an interest.

9. 

Buttonwood  Investment  Holding  Company  Ltd.  held  65%  of  the  shares  of  Silk  Road  Fund  and,  accordingly,  had  an  indirect  interest  in  the  same 

Shares in which Silk Road Fund had an interest.

Save as disclosed herein, as at 31st December 2020, the Company had not been notified by any person (other than the Directors 
or the Chief Executive of the Company) who had an interest or short position in the Shares or the underlying Shares which were 
required to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO, or which were recorded 
in the register required to be kept by the Company under Section 336 of the SFO.

CONNECTED TRANSACTIONS
Pursuant  to  Chapter  14A  of  the  Listing  Rules,  details  of  the  Company’s  continuing  connected  transactions  and  connected 
transactions during the year 2020 are as follows:

1.  Continuing Connected Transactions

COSCO  SHIPPING  indirectly  controls  more  than  50%  of  the  issued  share  capital  of  the  Company.  Accordingly,  COSCO 
SHIPPING  and  its  subsidiaries  and  associates  as  defined  under  the  Listing  Rules  (collectively  the  “COSCO  SHIPPING 
Group”) are connected persons of the Company. Transactions contemplated under each of the following master agreements 
constitute continuing connected transactions (the “Continuing Connected Transactions”) of the Company.

a)  Business Master Agreement

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 30th October 2019 entered into between the Company (for itself and on behalf of 
its subsidiaries and associates) and COSCO SHIPPING (for itself and on behalf of its subsidiaries and associates), both 
parties agreed to provide and to procure members of its group to provide to each other services related to containerized 
liner,  logistics,  information  technology  and  other  contractual  arrangements  (the  “Business  Master  Agreement”).  The 
Business Master Agreement is for a term of three years from 1st January 2020 to 31st December 2022, and is subject to 
renewal for successive periods of three years.

9393

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Report of the Directors

The following table is a summary of the transaction amounts and the annual cap for the year ended 31st December 2020 
for each type of the transactions contemplated under the Business Master Agreement.

Types of services under the Business Master Agreement

Provision of services by COSCO SHIPPING Group to the Group
(A)  Liner services

(i)  network services
(ii)  operation services
(iii)  vessel operating common carrier services
(iv)  other services, including information technology services

(B)  Logistics services including non-vessel operating common carrier 

services, international supply chain services, and domestic logistics 
services

Transaction 

amounts 

Annual caps 

for year 2020 
(US$’000)

for year 2020 
(US$’000)

104,981
100,523
–
21

19,347

224,000
120,000
2,400
15,000

26,000 
(Note)

(C)  Other contractual arrangements, including office leases and insurance 

8,968

20,000

service

(D)  Other services, including use of common facilities, ad-hoc use of 

1,296

12,000

business facilities and crew manning service/manning agency service

Provision of services by the Group to COSCO SHIPPING Group
(A)  Liner services

(i)  network services
(ii)  operation services
(iii)  vessel operating common carrier services
(iv)  other services, including information technology services

(B)  Logistics services including non-vessel operating common carrier 

services, international supply chain services, and domestic logistics 
services

(C)  Other contractual arrangements, including office leases and insurance 

service

(D)  Other services, including use of common facilities, ad-hoc use of 

business facilities and crew manning service/manning agency service

5,617
1,507
119,394
36,548

5,108

–

–

103,000
6,000
120,000
75,000

10,000

6,000

6,000

Note: The  annual  caps  for  the  provision  of  logistics  services  by  COSCO  SHIPPING  Group  to  OOIL  Group  under  the  Business  Master 

Agreement  for  the  three  years  ending  31st  December  2022  were  revised  and  approved  at  the  special  general  meeting  of  the  Company 
held on 30th November 2020 (the “SGM”):

Original annual caps

Revised annual caps

US$15,000,000

US$19,000,000
US$23,000,000

US$26,000,000

US$34,000,000
US$44,000,000

2020:

2021:
2022:

94

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Report of the Directors

b)  Bunker Master Agreement

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 30th October 2019 entered into between the Company (for itself and on behalf 
of  its  subsidiaries  and  associates)  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  (for  itself  and  on  behalf  of  its  subsidiaries  and  associates), 
COSCO SHIPPING Group agreed to sell and to procure members of its group to sell bunker, fuel and oil to the Group 
(the “Bunker Master Agreement”). The Bunker Master Agreement is for a term of three years from 1st January 2020 to 
31st December 2022, and is subject to renewal for successive periods of three years.

The following table is a summary of the transaction amounts and the annual cap for the year ended 31st December 2020 
for the transactions contemplated under the Bunker Master Agreement.

Transaction 

amounts 

Annual cap 

for year 2020 
(US$’000)

for year 2020 
(US$’000)

Purchase of bunker, fuel and oil by the Group from  

113,661

COSCO SHIPPING Group

135,000 

(Note)

Note: The  annual  caps  for  the  continuing  connected  transactions  under  the  Bunker  Master  Agreement  for  the  three  years  ending  31st 

December 2022 were revised and approved at the SGM:

2020:

2021:

2022:

c)  Terminal Master Agreement

Original annual caps

Revised annual caps

US$120,000,000

US$120,000,000

US$120,000,000

US$135,000,000

US$370,000,000

US$410,000,000

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 30th October 2019 entered into between the Company (for itself and on behalf of 
its subsidiaries and associates) and COSCO SHIPPING (for itself and on behalf of its subsidiaries and associates), both 
parties  agreed  to  provide  and  to  procure  members  of  its  group  to  provide  to  each  other  terminal  services  and  related 
services  (the  “Terminal  Master  Agreement”).  The  Terminal  Master  Agreement  is  for  a  term  of  three  years  from  1st 
January 2020 to 31st December 2022, and is subject to renewal for successive periods of three years.

The following table is a summary of the transaction amounts and the annual cap for the year ended 31st December 2020 
for each type of the transactions contemplated under the Terminal Master Agreement.

Transaction 

amounts 

Annual caps 

for year 2020 
(US$’000)

for year 2020 
(US$’000)

Provision of services by COSCO SHIPPING Group to the Group

133,034

155,000

Provision of services by the Group to COSCO SHIPPING Group

3,997

25,000

9595

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Report of the Directors

d)  Equipment Procurement Master Agreement

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 30th October 2019 entered into between the Company (for itself and on behalf of 
its subsidiaries and associates) and COSCO SHIPPING (for itself and on behalf of its subsidiaries and associates), both 
parties agreed to provide and to procure members of its group to provide to each other services relating to equipment 
procurement  including  container  acquisition  and  pooling  (the  “Equipment  Procurement  Master  Agreement”).  The 
Equipment Procurement Master Agreement is for a term of three years from 1st January 2020 to 31st December 2022, 
and is subject to renewal for successive periods of three years.

The  following  table  is  a  summary  of  the  transaction  amounts  and  the  annual  caps  for  the  year  ended  31st  December 
2020 for each type of the transactions contemplated under the Equipment Procurement Master Agreement.

Transaction 

amounts 

Annual caps 

for year 2020 
(US$’000)

for year 2020 
(US$’000)

Provision of services by COSCO SHIPPING Group to the Group

106,959

570,000

Provision of services by the Group to COSCO SHIPPING Group

7,932

36,000

e)  Vessel Services Master Agreement

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 30th October 2019 entered into between the Company (for itself and on behalf of 
its subsidiaries and associates) and COSCO SHIPPING (for itself and on behalf of its subsidiaries and associates), both 
parties agreed to provide and to procure members of its group to provide to each other vessel services, including vessel 
chartering,  vessel  supervision,  and  other  vessel-related  services  (the  “Vessel  Services  Master  Agreement”).  The  Vessel 
Services Master Agreement is for a term of three years from 1st January 2020 to 31st December 2022 and is subject to 
renewal for successive periods of three years.

The following table is a summary of the transaction amounts and the annual cap for the year ended 31st December 2020 
for each type of the transactions contemplated under the Vessel Services Master Agreement.

Provision of services by COSCO SHIPPING Group to the Group

Provision of services by the Group to COSCO SHIPPING Group

Transaction 

amounts 

Annual caps 

for year 2020 
(US$’000)

for year 2020 
(US$’000)

90,835

35,991

190,000

61,000

96

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Report of the Directors

f)  Financial Services Master Agreement

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 30th October 2019 entered into between the Company (for itself and on behalf 
of  its  subsidiaries  and  associates)  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  (for  itself  and  on  behalf  of  its  subsidiaries  and  associates), 
COSCO  SHIPPING  Group  agreed  to  provide  and  to  procure  members  of  its  group  to  provide  deposit  service,  loan 
service and other financial services to the Group (the “Financial Services Master Agreement”). The Financial Services 
Master Agreement is for a term of three years from 1st January 2020 to 31st December 2022 and is subject to renewal for 
successive periods of three years.

The following table is a summary of the transaction amounts and the annual cap for the year ended 31st December 2020 
for each type of the transactions contemplated under the Financial Services Master Agreement.

Highest daily 

Maximum daily 

outstanding 

outstanding 

balance* 

balance* 

for year 2020 
(US$’000)

for year 2020 
(US$’000)

Provision of deposit service by COSCO SHIPPING Group to the Group

58,960

200,000

Highest daily 

Maximum daily 

outstanding 

outstanding 

balance* 

balance* 

for year 2020 
(US$’000)

for year 2020 
(US$’000)

Provision of loan service by COSCO SHIPPING Group to the Group

–

100,000

Provision of other financial services by  

COSCO SHIPPING Group to the Group

Transaction 

amounts 

Annual cap 

for year 2020 
(US$’000)

for year 2020 
(US$’000)

–

1,000

* 

The daily outstanding balance of deposits and/or loans includes accrued interest and handling fee.

9797

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
Report of the Directors

Pursuant  to  rule  14A.55  of  the  Listing  Rules,  the  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors  of  the  Company,  namely 
Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  Dr.  Chung  Shui  Ming  Timpson,  Mr.  Yang  Liang  Yee  Philip,  Ms.  Chen  Ying  and  Mr.  So 
Gregory  Kam  Leung,  had  reviewed  the  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  and  confirmed  that  the  Continuing 
Connected  Transactions  have  been  entered  into  (a)  in  the  ordinary  and  usual  course  of  business  of  the  Group;  (b)  on 
normal commercial terms or better; and (c) according to the relevant agreements governing them on terms that are fair 
and reasonable and in the interests of the shareholders of the Company as a whole.

The  Company’s  auditor  was  engaged  to  report  on  the  Group’s  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  in  accordance 
with Hong Kong Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) “Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or 
Reviews of Historical Financial Information” and with reference to Practice Note 740 “Auditor’s Letter on Continuing 
Connected  Transactions  under  the  Hong  Kong  Listing  Rules”  issued  by  the  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified  Public 
Accountants.  The  auditor  has  issued  their  unqualified  letter  containing  the  findings  and  conclusions  in  respect  of  the 
Continuing Connected Transactions as disclosed above in accordance with rule 14A.56 of the Listing Rules. A copy of 
aforesaid auditor’s letter has been provided by the Company to the Stock Exchange.

2.  Connected Transactions

During the year 2020, the indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company entered into the following agreements:

a)  Shipbuilding contracts for five vessels

On 10th March 2020, five indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company respectively entered into the shipbuilding 
contracts  on  substantially  the  same  terms  with  Nantong  COSCO  KHI  Ship  Engineering  Co.,  Ltd.  (“Nantong”)  or 
Dalian COSCO KHI Ship Engineering Co., Ltd. (“Dalian”) for the construction of a total of five vessels for an aggregate 
consideration of US$778.4 million.

Details  of  this  major  and  connected  transaction  in  relation  to  the  construction  of  five  vessels  are  set  out  in  the 
announcement of the Company dated 10th March 2020.

b)  Shipbuilding contracts for seven vessels

On  30th  October  2020,  seven  indirect  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  of  the  Company  respectively  entered  into  the 
shipbuilding contracts on substantially the same terms with Nantong or Dalian for the construction of a total of seven 
vessels for an aggregate consideration of US$1,103.9 million.

Details  of  this  major  and  connected  transaction  in  relation  to  the  construction  of  seven  vessels  are  set  out  in  the 
announcement of the Company dated 30th October 2020.

As  at  10th  March  2020  and  30th  October  2020,  Nantong  was  an  associate  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  which  indirectly  held 
50%  equity  interest  in  Nantong.  Dalian  was  an  indirect  subsidiary  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  and  Nantong  directly  held  30% 
equity interest in Dalian. COSCO SHIPPING indirectly controls more than 50% of the issued share capital of the Company. 
Accordingly, both Nantong and Dalian were connected persons of the Company and the transactions contemplated under the 
twelve shipbuilding contracts constituted connected transactions of the Company.

During  the  year,  the  Group  conducted  certain  related  party  transactions,  as  disclosed  in  note  42  to  the  consolidated  financial 
statements  on  page  181  of  this  annual  report.  Some  of  these  transactions  also  constituted  connected  transactions  of  the  Group 
(exempted or non-exempted) and in respect of which the Company has complied with the relevant applicable requirements under 
Chapter 14A of the Listing Rules.

98

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Report of the Directors

PERMITTED INDEMNITY
Pursuant  to  the  Bye-laws  of  the  Company  and  subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  statutes,  every  Director  of  the  Company  shall  be 
indemnified and secured harmless out of the assets and profits of the Company from and against all actions, costs, charges, losses, 
damages  and  expenses  which  he  may  incur  or  sustain  in  or  about  the  execution  of  his  duty;  provided  that  the  indemnity  shall 
not  extend  to  any  matter  in  respect  of  any  wilful  negligence,  wilful  default,  fraud  or  dishonesty  which  may  attach  to  any  of  the 
Directors of the Company.

Since 1992, the Company has arranged insurance cover for the directors’ and officers’ liabilities including cover for the Directors 
of the Company, the officers and senior management of the Group arising out of the corporate activities of the Group.

PURCHASE, SALE OR REDEMPTION OF SHARES
During the year ended 31st December 2020, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries had purchased, sold or redeemed any 
of the Company’s Shares.

PRE-EMPTIVE RIGHTS
No pre-emptive rights exist under Bermudan law in relation to the issue of new shares by the Company.

SHARE CAPITAL
Details of the shares of the Company issued during the year are set out in note 33 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 
169 of this annual report.

TOP-UP  PLACING  OF  EXISTING  SHARES  AND  SUBSCRIPTION  OF  NEW  SHARES  UNDER 
GENERAL MANDATE
On  22nd  January  2021,  the  Company  entered  into  the  placing  and  subscription  agreement  with  Faulkner  and  J.P.  Morgan 
Securities  (Asia  Pacific)  Limited,  pursuant  to  which  Faulkner  conditionally  agreed  to  subscribe  for  11,400,000  new  shares  (the 
“Subscription Shares”) of the Company at the price of HK$81.80 per share (the “Subscription”).

The  Subscription  Shares  were  allotted  and  issued  pursuant  to  the  general  mandate  granted  to  the  Directors  of  the  Company  by 
a  resolution  of  the  shareholders  passed  at  the  annual  general  meeting  of  the  Company  held  on  15th  May  2020  (the  “General 
Mandate”). As at the date of the placing and subscription agreement, the Company was authorised to allot and issue 125,158,659 
new shares under such General Mandate. Accordingly, the allotment and issue of the Subscription Shares was not subject to the 
approval of the shareholders of the Company.

Completion  of  the  Subscription  took  place  on  29th  January  2021.  The  net  proceeds  from  the  Subscription  amounted  to 
approximately HK$923 million (net of expenses relating to the top-up placing).

Details of top-up placing are set out in the announcements of the Company dated 22nd January 2021 and 29th January 2021.

RESERVES
Movements during the year in the reserves of the Group and the Company are set out in note 34 and note 43 to the consolidated 
financial statements on pages 170 and 183 to 184 of this annual report.

9999

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Report of the Directors

EQUITY-LINKED AGREEMENTS
Save  as  disclosed  in  the  section  headed  “Top-Up  Placing  of  Existing  Shares  and  Subscription  of  New  Shares  under  General 
Mandate”, the Company had not entered into any equity-linked agreement for the year ended 31st December 2020.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The  Board  and  management  of  the  Company  are  committed  to  maintaining  high  standards  of  corporate  governance  and  the 
Company  considers  that  effective  corporate  governance  makes  an  important  contribution  to  corporate  success  and  to  the 
enhancement of shareholder value.

The Company has adopted its own corporate governance code (the “CG Code”), which in addition to applying the principles as 
set out in the Corporate Governance Code (the “SEHK Code”) contained in Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules, also incorporates 
and conforms to local and international best practices. The CG Code sets out the corporate governance principles applied by the 
Group and is constantly reviewed to ensure transparency, accountability and independence. Further information on the CG Code 
is set out in the corporate governance report (the “Corporate Governance Report”) on pages 60 to 86 of this annual report.

Throughout the year of 2020, the Company complied with the SEHK Code, except as set out in the Corporate Governance Report.

PUBLIC FLOAT
Based on the information that is publicly available to the Company and within the knowledge of the Directors of the Company, 
as at the date of this report, there was sufficient public float of at least 25% of the Company’s issued Shares as required under the 
Listing Rules.

DONATIONS
Donations made by the Group during the year amount to US$55,000.

ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 21st May 2021.

A  circular  containing,  inter  alia,  (i)  a  notice  convening  the  Annual  General  Meeting;  (ii)  details  of  the  retiring  Directors  to  be 
re-elected  at  the  Annual  General  Meeting;  (iii)  the  general  mandate  to  authorise  the  allotment  of  and  otherwise  dealing  with 
shares  of  all  classes  in  the  capital  of  the  Company  and  securities  convertible  into  shares  and  options,  warrants  or  similar  rights 
to subscribe for shares or such convertible securities; and (iv) the general mandate to authorise the repurchase of the Company’s 
securities, together with a proxy form will be despatched to the shareholders of the Company on or around 19th April 2021.

COMPANY SECRETARY
The Company Secretary of the Company is Mr. Xiao Junguang.

AUDITOR
The  Group’s  consolidated  financial  statements  have  been  audited  by  PricewaterhouseCoopers  who  will  retire  at  the  Annual 
General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.

On behalf of the Board
Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Xu Lirong
Chairman

Hong Kong, China, 26th March 2021

100

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020Index – Financial Information

Index – Financial Information

Summary of significant accounting policies
Financial risk management

Content
Independent Auditor’s Report
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1.  General information
2. 
3. 
4.  Critical accounting estimates and judgements
5.  Revenue and segment information
6.  Operating costs
7.  Other operating income
8.  Other (losses)/gains, net
9.  Employee benefit expenses
10.  Directors’ and management’s emoluments
11.  Operating profit
12.  Finance costs
13.  Taxation
14.  Earnings per ordinary share
15.  Dividends
16.  Discontinued operation
17.  Property, plant and equipment
18.  Right-of-use assets
19.  Investment property
20.  Investments in joint ventures
21.  Investments in associated companies
22.  Intangible assets
23.  Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities)
24.  Pension and retirement benefits
25.  Restricted bank balances
26.  Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income
27.  Investments at amortised cost
28.  Other non-current assets
29.  Inventories
30.  Debtors and prepayments
31.  Portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss
32.  Cash and bank balances
33.  Share capital
34.  Reserves
35.  Share-based payments
36.  Borrowings
37.  Lease liabilities
38.  Provision
39.  Creditors and accruals
40.  Commitments
41.  Notes to consolidated cash flow statement
42.  Significant related party transactions
43.  Company balance sheet
44.  Event subsequent to year end
45.  Approval of consolidated financial statements
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures

Page no.
102
108
109
110
112
113

114
114
130
135
138
143
143
144
144
145
148
148
149
150
150
151
152
153
154
155
156
157
158
159
163
163
164
165
165
166
168
168
169
170
171
172
173
174
175
175
177
181
183
184
184
185

101101

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Independent Auditor’s Report

Independent Auditor’s Report

To the Shareholders of Orient Overseas (International) Limited
(incorporated in Bermuda with limited liability)

OPINION

What we have audited

The  consolidated  financial  statements  of  Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (the  “Company”)  and  its  subsidiaries  (the 
“Group”) set out on pages 108 to 195, which comprise:

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

the consolidated balance sheet as at 31st December 2020;
the consolidated profit and loss account for the year then ended;
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended;
the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended; and
the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies.

Our opinion

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group 
as at 31st December 2020, and of its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended 
in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants  (“HKICPA”)  and  have  been  properly  prepared  in  compliance  with  the  disclosure  requirements  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Companies Ordinance.

BASIS FOR OPINION
We  conducted  our  audit  in  accordance  with  Hong  Kong  Standards  on  Auditing  (“HKSAs”)  issued  by  the  HKICPA.  Our 
responsibilities  under  those  standards  are  further  described  in  the  Auditor’s  Responsibilities  for  the  Audit  of  the  Consolidated 
Financial Statements section of our report.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence

We are independent of the Group in accordance with the HKICPA’s Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (“the Code”), and 
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code.

KEY AUDIT MATTERS
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

Key audit matters identified in our audit are summarised as follows:

• 
• 
• 

Provision for operating costs
Recognition of freight revenue on a percentage of completion basis
Provision for onerous contract for the Terminal Service Agreement (“TSA”) for Long Beach Container Terminal (“LBCT”)

102

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
Key Audit Matter

Provision for operating costs

Refer to notes 4(c) and 39 to the consolidated financial 
statements.

As  at  31st  December  2020,  included  in  the  accrued 
expenses  of  US$894.3  million  was  a  provision  for 
operating  costs  for  container  transport  operation  which 
mainly comprise cargo, vessel and voyage costs, equipment 
and repositioning costs and terminal operating costs.

As  generally,  it  would  take  management  several  months 
to  finalise  certain  costs  with  suppliers  subsequent  to  the 
receipt of such services, management makes a provision at 
the period end for operating costs that are not yet billed by 
the suppliers based on known services received, pattern of 
historical cost and estimated vendor tariffs etc.

We  focus  on  the  estimation  of  provision  for  operating 
costs  because  it  involved  significant  management’s 
judgement  which  are  subjective  taking  into  account  a 
number  of  factors,  such  as  pattern  of  historical  cost  and 
the estimated vendor tariff.

Independent Auditor’s Report

How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter

Our procedures in relation to the provision for operating costs 
included:

•  Obtained  an  understanding  of  management’s  internal 
control  and  process  over  provision  for  operating  costs 
and  assessed  the  level  of  inherent  risk  by  considering 
the degree of estimation uncertainty and factors such as 
subjectivity.

•  Understood,  evaluated  and  tested  the  information 
technology general control environment of the operation 
and  accounting  systems  used  to  record  the  operating 
costs and cost provisioning.

• 

Evaluated and tested the key controls over the operating 
costs,  cost  provisioning  and  accounts  payable  cycle,  in 
particular  the  management  review  and  approval  of  the 
vendor tariffs in the operation system.

•  Understood  the  extraction  logic  in  operation  system 
and tested the accuracy and completeness of the reports 
generated  from  the  operation  system  for  making  the 
provision for operating costs, on a sample basis.

• 

• 

• 

Assessed  the  effectiveness  of  management’s  estimation 
process  by  evaluating  the  outcome  of  provision  made 
in  the  prior  year  and  reviewing  the  monthly  provision 
analysis prepared by management.

Evaluated the sufficiency of year end provision made by 
management  by  reviewing  the  utilisation  of  provision 
subsequent to the year end.

Checked  paid  and  unpaid  invoices  after  the  year  end, 
on  a  sample  basis,  and  evaluated  whether  the  operating 
costs have been recorded and provided for in the proper 
period.

We  found  that  the  judgement  involved  in  making  the 
provision for operating costs was supportable by the available 
evidence.

103103

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report

Key Audit Matter

How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter

Recognition  of  freight  revenue  of  vessel  voyages  in 
progress at the year end

Our procedures in relation to freight revenue of vessel voyages 
in progress at the year end included:

Refer to notes 2.22, 4(e) and 5 to the consolidated 
financial statements.

For  the  year  ended  31st  December  2020,  majority  of  the 
Group’s  revenue  of  US$8,191.3  million  was  derived  from 
the freight revenue from container transport operation.

The Group recognises freight revenue based on the sailing 
schedules  and  the  respective  freight  rates  in  accordance 
with agreements or contracts.

For voyages in progress at the year end, the Group applies 
a  percentage  of  completion  to  the  contracted  freight 
revenue  of  each  voyage  and  the  percentage  is  determined 
based  on  the  days  of  vessel  voyage  completed  to  date 
relative  to  the  total  estimated  days  required  for  the 
completion  of  the  entire  voyage.  We  focus  on  the  freight 
revenue in progress at the year end because the transaction 
volume  of  the  voyages  which  were  in  progress  at  year 
end  is  significant  and  complex  calculations  are  involved 
in  the  estimation  of  freight  revenue  on  a  percentage  of 
completion basis.

•  Obtained  an  understanding  of  management’s  internal 
control  and  estimation  process  and  assessed  the  level  of 
inherent  risk  by  considering  the  degree  of  estimation 
uncertainty and factors such as complexity.

•  Understood,  evaluated  and  tested  the  information 
technology general control environment of the operation 
and  accounting  systems  used  to  record  the  freight 
revenue transactions.

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Evaluated and tested the key controls, on a sample basis, 
over the recognition of freight revenue in progress at the 
year end.

Selected vessel voyages in progress at the year end in the 
estimation  schedule,  on  a  sample  basis,  and  agreed  the 
contracted revenue to the data recorded in the operation 
system.

Assessed  the  percentage  of  completion  estimated  by 
management in respect of the vessel voyages in progress 
at  year  end,  by  agreeing  the  estimated  departure  dates 
and  arrival  dates  of  vessel  voyages  in  progress  in  the 
operation  system  to  the  sailing  schedules,  on  a  sample 
basis.

Tested,  subsequent  to  the  year  end,  the  actual  departure 
dates  and  arrival  dates  of  vessel  voyages  in  progress  at 
year end, on a sample basis.

Checked  the  calculation,  on  a  sample  basis,  of  the 
estimated freight revenue of vessel voyages in progress at 
year end.

We  found  that  management’s  estimation  of  freight  revenue 
for  vessel  voyages  in  progress  at  year  end  are  supportable  by 
available evidence.

104

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report

Key Audit Matter

How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter

Provision for onerous contract for the TSA for LBCT

Our procedures in relation to the assessment of the provision 
for onerous contract for the TSA included:

Refer to notes 2.18, 4(d) and 38 to the consolidated 
financial statements.

In  October  2019,  the  Group  entered  into  a  terminal 
service  agreement  for  procuring  the  placement  of  an 
annual  minimum  number  of  vessel  lifts  (“MVC”)  at 
Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  (“LBCT”)  for  each  of 
the  20  years  commencing  on  1  November  2019  (“TSA”). 
According  to  the  TSA,  the  Group  is  entitled  to  an  excess 
rebate or obliged to pay a deficiency payment when there 
is  surplus  or  shortfall  over  the  respective  MVC  for  each 
year during the contract period.

A  provision  should  be  made  for  the  present  obligation 
under  the  TSA  where  the  unavoidable  costs  of  meeting 
the  obligations  under  the  contract  exceed  the  economic 
benefits  expected  to  be  received  under  it.  Management 
performed  an  assessment  to  determine  if  any  onerous 
provision for the TSA is required.

As  at  31st  December  2020,  the  Group  recognised  a 
provision for onerous contract of US$348.5 million for the 
TSA, which is calculated using an expected value approach 
involving  probability  weighted  possible  scenarios  taking 
into  considerations  of  respective  economic  benefits  to 
be  received  and  associated  fulfilment  costs  during  the 
remaining contract period.

The  estimation  of  the  fulfilment  costs  and  economic 
benefits  over  the  remaining  contract  period  involves 
significant  judgements  and  assumptions  including,  a)  the 
projected vessel lifts to be placed at LBCT, b) the expected 
amount of deficiency payment/excess rebates as stipulated 
in  the  TSA  when  the  volume  is  below/in  excess  of  the 
MVC,  c)  the  amount  of  expected  bunker  costs  and  other 
operating  costs  and  d)  the  expected  freight  rate  from 
operating the service routes to/from LBCT.

We focused on this area because of the significance of the 
onerous  provision  as  well  as  the  estimation  of  it  involved 
a high degree of uncertainty. The inherent risk in relation 
to the onerous contract assessment is significant due to the 
complexity of the calculation methodology and model and 
high level of subjectivity of management’s judgements and 
assumptions made.

•  Obtained an understanding of management’s assessment 
process  of  the  onerous  provision  for  the  TSA  and 
assessed  the  inherent  risk  of  material  misstatement  by 
considering  the  degree  of  estimation  uncertainty  and 
factors such as complexity and subjectivity.

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Evaluated  the  appropriateness  of  the  identification 
of  expected  economic  benefits  and  fulfilment  cost 
element  included  in  management’s  assessment  through 
discussion  with  management  and  corroborated  with 
our  review  of  the  key  terms  of  the  TSA  and  our 
understanding  of  the  applicable  accounting  standard 
requirements.

Assessed  the  calculation  methodology  and  model  for 
onerous  contract  provision  with  the  involvement  of  our 
in house specialists.

Evaluated  management’s  projected  vessel  lifts  for  the 
remaining  contract  period  under  the  TSA  through 
discussion with management, referencing to market data 
and  comparing  to  historical  vessel  lifts  and  trends  of 
LBCT.

Checked  management’s  calculation  of  the  excess  rebate 
or deficiency payment according to the terms in the TSA 
and the projected vessel lifts at LBCT.

Assessed  the  reasonableness  of  expected  bunker  costs 
with  reference  to  market  forecast  and  other  expected 
operating  costs  and  freight  rate  based  on  the  approved 
budget,  market  data,  and  our  knowledge  of  the  business 
and industry.

Evaluated  the  probability  weighting  applied  to  the 
possible  scenarios  prepared  by  management  based  on 
our understanding of the Group’s business and industry 
as well as discussion with management and corroborated 
with management’s sensitivity analysis on the probability 
weighting applied to possible scenarios.

Evaluated  the  appropriateness  and  adequacy  of  the 
relevant  disclosures  made  in  the  Group’s  consolidated 
financial statements.

Based on the procedures performed, we found the calculation 
methodology  and  model,  judgements  and  assumptions  used 
in  the  estimation  of  the  provision  of  onerous  contract  were 
supportable based on available evidence.

105105

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report

OTHER INFORMATION
The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises all of the information 
included in the annual report other than the consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.

Our  opinion  on  the  consolidated  financial  statements  does  not  cover  the  other  information  and  we  do  not  express  any  form  of 
assurance conclusion thereon.

In  connection  with  our  audit  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements,  our  responsibility  is  to  read  the  other  information  and, 
in  doing  so,  consider  whether  the  other  information  is  materially  inconsistent  with  the  consolidated  financial  statements  or  our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.

If,  based  on  the  work  we  have  performed,  we  conclude  that  there  is  a  material  misstatement  of  this  other  information,  we  are 
required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND THE AUDIT COMMITTEE FOR THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The  directors  of  the  Company  are  responsible  for  the  preparation  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements  that  give  a  true  and 
fair  view  in  accordance  with  HKFRSs  issued  by  the  HKICPA  and  the  disclosure  requirements  of  the  Hong  Kong  Companies 
Ordinance, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial 
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.

AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
Our  objectives  are  to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether  the  consolidated  financial  statements  as  a  whole  are  free  from 
material  misstatement,  whether  due  to  fraud  or  error,  and  to  issue  an  auditor’s  report  that  includes  our  opinion.  We  report  our 
opinion solely to you, as a body, in accordance with Section 90 of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda and for no other purpose. 
We  do  not  assume  responsibility  towards  or  accept  liability  to  any  other  person  for  the  contents  of  this  report.  Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with HKSAs will always detect 
a  material  misstatement  when  it  exists.  Misstatements  can  arise  from  fraud  or  error  and  are  considered  material  if,  individually 
or  in  the  aggregate,  they  could  reasonably  be  expected  to  influence  the  economic  decisions  of  users  taken  on  the  basis  of  these 
consolidated financial statements.

As  part  of  an  audit  in  accordance  with  HKSAs,  we  exercise  professional  judgement  and  maintain  professional  scepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:

• 

Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control.

•  Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in 
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.

• 

Evaluate  the  appropriateness  of  accounting  policies  used  and  the  reasonableness  of  accounting  estimates  and  related 
disclosures made by the directors.

106

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Independent Auditor’s Report

• 

• 

Conclude  on  the  appropriateness  of  the  directors’  use  of  the  going  concern  basis  of  accounting  and,  based  on  the  audit 
evidence  obtained,  whether  a  material  uncertainty  exists  related  to  events  or  conditions  that  may  cast  significant  doubt  on 
the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.

Evaluate  the  overall  presentation,  structure  and  content  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements,  including  the  disclosures, 
and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves 
fair presentation.

•  Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within 
the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision 
and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We  communicate  with  the  Audit  Committee  regarding,  among  other  matters,  the  planned  scope  and  timing  of  the  audit  and 
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We  also  provide  the  Audit  Committee  with  a  statement  that  we  have  complied  with  relevant  ethical  requirements  regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.

From  the  matters  communicated  with  the  Audit  Committee,  we  determine  those  matters  that  were  of  most  significance  in  the 
audit  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of  the  current  period  and  are  therefore  the  key  audit  matters.  We  describe  these 
matters  in  our  auditor’s  report  unless  law  or  regulation  precludes  public  disclosure  about  the  matter  or  when,  in  extremely  rare 
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is Liao Weining.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
Certified Public Accountants

Hong Kong, 26th March 2021

107107

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account

For the year ended 31st December 2020

Consolidated Profit and Loss Account

For the year ended 31st December 2020

US$’000

Revenue

Operating costs

Gross profit

Other operating income

Business and administrative expenses

Net impairment losses on financial assets

Other (losses)/gains, net

Operating profit

Finance costs

Share of profits of joint ventures

Share of profits of associated companies

Profit before taxation

Taxation

Profit for the year from continuing operations

Discontinued operation:

Profit for the year from discontinued operation

Profit for the year

Profit attributable to:

Equity holders of the Company

Non-controlling interests

Earnings per ordinary share (US cents)

From continuing operations

From discontinued operation

Basic and diluted

Note

2020

2019

5

6

7

8

11

12

20

21

13

16

14

8,191,304

(6,602,121)

1,589,183

78,853

(642,031)

(15,446)

(18,372)

992,187

(91,312)

3,290

9,509

913,674

(10,656)

903,018

6,878,740

(6,069,201)

809,539

83,679

(562,435)

(4,915)

35,413

361,281

(151,599)

4,116

10,028

223,826

(69,839)

153,987

–

1,194,806

903,018

1,348,793

902,723

295

903,018

144.3

–

144.3

1,348,793

–

1,348,793

24.6

190.9

215.5

108

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

For the year ended 31st December 2020

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

For the year ended 31st December 2020

US$’000

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive income/(loss):

Items that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss:

2020

903,018

2019

1,348,793

Remeasurement losses on defined benefit schemes

(6,777)

(10,084)

Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income

Change in fair value

Total items that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss

Items that have been reclassified or may be reclassified subsequently  

to profit or loss:

Currency translation adjustments

Foreign subsidiaries

Associated companies

Joint ventures

Release of reserve upon step acquisition from joint venture to subsidiary

Total items that have been reclassified or may be reclassified subsequently  

to profit or loss

Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax

(7,800)

(14,577)

(7,925)

(18,009)

9,366

8,862

495

652

19,375

4,798

(1,643)

(2,066)

(15)

–

(3,724)

(21,733)

Total comprehensive income for the year

907,816

1,327,060

Total comprehensive income attributable to:

Equity holders of the Company

Non-controlling interests

Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders of the 

Company arising from:

Continuing operations

Discontinued operation

907,556

260

907,816

1,327,060

–

1,327,060

907,556

–

132,254

1,194,806

907,556

1,327,060

109
109

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet

As at 31st December 2020

Consolidated Balance Sheet

As at 31st December 2020

US$’000

ASSETS

Non-current assets

Property, plant and equipment

Right-of-use assets

Investment property

Investments in joint ventures

Investments in associated companies

Intangible assets

Deferred taxation assets

Restricted bank balances

Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income

Investments at amortised cost

Other non-current assets

Current assets

Inventories

Debtors and prepayments

Investments at amortised cost

Portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss

Tax recoverable

Restricted bank balances

Cash and bank balances

Total assets

EQUITY

Equity holders

Share capital

Reserves

Non-controlling interests

Total equity

110

Note

2020

2019

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

25

26

27

28

29

30

27

31

25

32

33

34

3,744,666

2,303,265

3,162,424

2,830,674

280,000

9,848

144,987

18,856

6,255

321

7,895

113,295

21,344

310,000

10,163

137,665

30,824

5,083

56,795

15,694

147,420

49,371

6,650,732

6,756,113

94,778

681,126

34,117

100,560

8,520

1,925

113,485

668,268

43,886

152,923

8,121

3,499

3,072,795

3,455,570

3,993,821

4,445,752

10,644,553

11,201,865

62,579

5,579,535

62,579

4,864,828

5,642,114

4,927,407

380

–

5,642,494

4,927,407

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$’000

LIABILITIES

Non-current liabilities

Borrowings

Lease liabilities

Deferred taxation liabilities

Pension and retirement liabilities

Provision

Current liabilities

Creditors and accruals

Borrowings

Lease liabilities

Current taxation

Dividend payable

Total liabilities

Total equity and liabilities

Huang Xiaowen
Yang Zhijian
Directors

Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31st December 2020

Note

2020

2019

36

37

23

24

38

39

36

37

15

820,325

1,669,163

143,121

15,447

348,545

1,033,141

2,309,083

150,479

11,494

–

2,996,601

3,504,197

1,387,711

1,072,605

213,270

367,085

37,392

394,996

253,869

47,522

–

1,001,269

2,005,458

2,770,261

5,002,059

6,274,458

10,644,553

11,201,865

111111

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement

For the year ended 31st December 2020

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement

For the year ended 31st December 2020

Note

41(a)

41(c)
41(d)

41(b)
41(b)
41(b)
41(b)

US$’000

Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations
Interest and financing charges paid
Income tax paid

Net cash from operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities

Sale and redemption on maturity of non-current assets
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of other non-current assets
Decrease in portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss
Acquisition of subsidiaries
Disposal of subsidiaries
Deposit paid for investment in an entity
Investment in a joint venture
Investment in an associated company
Net change in amounts due from joint ventures
Increase in restricted bank balances and bank deposits maturing 

more than three months

Interest received
Dividends and distribution received from investments
Dividends received from joint ventures and associated companies

Net cash (used in)/from investing activities

Cash flows from financing activities

Drawdown of loans
Repayment of loans
Drawdown of lease liabilities
Repayment of lease liabilities
Dividends paid to equity holders of the Company
Capital contribution from non-controlling interests

Net cash used in financing activities

Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
Net change in cash and cash equivalents of disposal group  

classified as held for sale

Currency translation adjustments

2020

2019

2,013,606
(75,640)
(33,232)

1,904,734

72,817
(369,581)
(9,958)
46,721
9,646
–
–
–
(852)
–

(433,638)
69,999
8,768
17,257

(588,821)

99,550
(496,934)
–
(603,882)
(1,198,894)
120

(2,200,040)

(884,127)
2,272,570

–
9,666

948,131
(170,123)
(118,404)

659,604

60,153
(181,795)
(29,352)
241,609
–
1,709,248
(1,678)
(146)
(2,840)
2,183

(1,182,172)
61,777
9,648
15,716

702,351

301,310
(684,659)
99,145
(352,109)
(89,859)
–

(726,172)

635,783
1,584,465

53,733
(1,411)

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

41(f)

1,398,109

2,272,570

112

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

For the year ended 31st December 2020

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

For the year ended 31st December 2020

Equity holders

Non-

controlling 

Reserves

Sub-total

interests

Total

US$’000

At 1st January 2019
Total comprehensive income for the year
Transactions with owners

Employee share-based compensation
2018 final dividend
2019 interim dividend
2019 first special dividend

At 31st December 2019
Total comprehensive income for the year
Transactions with owners

Employee share-based compensation
2019 final dividend
2019 second special dividend
2020 interim dividend
Capital contribution from non-controlling interests

Share 

capital

62,579
–

4,626,245
1,327,060

4,688,824
1,327,060

–
–
–
–

2,651
(48,181)
(41,678)
(1,001,269)

2,651
(48,181)
(41,678)
(1,001,269)

62,579
–

4,864,828
907,556

4,927,407
907,556

–
–
–
–
–

4,776
(16,834)
(150,190)
(30,601)
–

4,776
(16,834)
(150,190)
(30,601)
–

At 31st December 2020

62,579

5,579,535

5,642,114

–
–

–
–
–
–

–
260

–
–
–
–
120

380

4,688,824
1,327,060

2,651
(48,181)
(41,678)
(1,001,269)

4,927,407
907,816

4,776
(16,834)
(150,190)
(30,601)
120

5,642,494

113
113

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

1.  GENERAL INFORMATION

Orient Overseas (International) Limited (the “Company”) is a members’ limited liability company incorporated in Bermuda. 
The address of its registered office is Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda and the principal office 
is 31st Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong, China.

The  principal  activity  of  the  Company  is  investment  holding  and  the  activities  of  its  principal  subsidiaries,  associated 
companies and joint ventures are set out on pages 185 to 195 of the consolidated financial statements.

The Company has its shares listed on the Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.

The  ultimate  parent  company  of  the  Group  is  China  COSCO  SHIPPING  Corporation  Limited  (“COSCO  SHIPPING”),  a 
state-owned enterprise established in the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC”).

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The  significant  accounting  policies  applied  in  the  preparation  of  these  consolidated  financial  statements  are  set  out  below. 
These policies have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless otherwise stated.

2.1  Basis of preparation

The  consolidated  financial  statements  have  been  prepared  in  accordance  with  Hong  Kong  Financial  Reporting 
Standards (“HKFRS”) issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the applicable disclosure 
requirements of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance. They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, 
as modified by the revaluation of investment property, investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 
and portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss which are carried at fair value.

The  preparation  of  consolidated  financial  statements  in  conformity  with  HKFRS  requires  the  use  of  certain  critical 
accounting  estimates.  It  also  requires  management  to  exercise  its  judgement  in  the  process  of  applying  the  Group’s 
accounting  policies.  The  areas  involving  a  higher  degree  of  judgement  or  complexity,  or  areas  where  assumptions  and 
estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 4.

The adoption of revised standards

In 2020, the Group adopted the following amendments to existing standards below, which are relevant to its operations.

Amendments to existing standards

HKAS 1 and HKAS 8 (Amendments)
HKFRS 3 (Amendment)

Definition of Material
Definition of a Business

The adoption of the above amendments to existing standards do not have a material impact on the Group.

114

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

New standard and amendments to existing standards that are relevant but not yet effective to the Group

New standard and amendments to existing standards

HKFRS 16 (Amendment)
HKFRS 17
HKAS 16 (Amendment)

COVID-19 Related Rent Concessions
Insurance Contracts
Property, Plant and Equipment – Proceeds before  

Intended Use

HKAS 37 (Amendment)
HKAS 1 (Amendment)
HKFRS 10 and HKAS 28 

(Amendments)

Onerous Contracts – Cost of Fulfilling a Contract
Presentation of Financial Statements
Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor  

and its Associate or Joint Venture

Effective for 
accounting periods 
beginning on or after

1st June 2020
1st January 2021
1st January 2022

1st January 2022
1st January 2023
To be announced

The  adoption  of  HKFRS  16  (Amendment),  HKFRS  17,  HKAS  16  (Amendment),  HKAS  37  (Amendment),  HKAS 
1  (Amendment)  and  HKFRS  10  and  HKAS  28  (Amendments)  are  not  expected  to  have  a  significant  effect  on  the 
consolidated financial statements of the Group.

2.2  Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 
31st December.

The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s attributable share of post-acquisition results and reserves 
of its joint ventures and associated companies.

(a)  Subsidiaries

A subsidiary is an entity (including a structured entity) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an 
entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has 
the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on 
which control is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.

The  Group  uses  the  acquisition  method  of  accounting  to  account  for  business  combinations.  The  consideration 
transferred  for  the  acquisition  of  a  subsidiary  is  the  fair  values  of  the  assets  transferred,  the  liabilities  incurred 
and  the  equity  interests  issued  by  the  Group.  The  consideration  transferred  includes  the  fair  value  of  any  asset 
or  liability  resulting  from  a  contingent  consideration  arrangement.  Acquisition-related  costs  are  expensed  as 
incurred.  Identifiable  assets  acquired  and  liabilities  and  contingent  liabilities  assumed  in  a  business  combination 
are  measured  initially  at  their  fair  values  at  the  acquisition  date.  The  Group  recognises  any  non-controlling 
interest  in  the  acquiree  on  an  acquisition-by-acquisition  basis.  Non-controlling  interests  in  the  acquiree  that  are 
present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets in the event 
of  liquidation  are  measured  at  either  fair  value  or  the  present  ownership  interests’  proportionate  share  in  the 
recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. All other components of non-controlling interests are 
measured at their acquisition-date fair value, unless another measurement basis is required by HKFRS.

115115

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.2  Consolidation (Continued)

(a)  Subsidiaries (Continued)

The  excess  of  the  consideration  transferred,  the  amount  of  any  non-controlling  interest  in  the  acquiree  and  the 
acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net 
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised 
and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the 
case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Inter-company  transactions,  balances  and  unrealised  gains  on  transactions  between  group  companies  are 
eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the 
asset transferred.

(b)  Transactions with non-controlling interests

Transactions  with  non-controlling  interests  that  do  not  result  in  a  loss  of  control  are  accounted  for  as  equity 
transactions – that is, as transactions with the owners of the subsidiary in their capacity as owners. The difference 
between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary 
is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non– controlling interests are also recorded in equity.

(c)  Disposal of subsidiaries

When  the  Group  ceases  to  have  control,  any  retained  interest  in  the  entity  is  remeasured  to  its  fair  value,  with 
the  change  in  carrying  amount  recognised  in  profit  or  loss.  The  fair  value  is  the  initial  carrying  amount  for  the 
purposes  of  subsequent  accounting  for  the  retained  interest  as  an  associated  company,  joint  venture  or  financial 
asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are 
accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts 
previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.

(d)  Joint arrangements

Joint  arrangements  are  classified  as  either  joint  operations  or  joint  ventures  depending  on  the  contractual  rights 
and obligations of each investor. The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them 
to be joint ventures. Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.

Under  the  equity  method  of  accounting,  interests  in  joint  ventures  are  initially  recognised  at  cost  and  adjusted 
thereafter  to  recognise  the  Group’s  share  of  the  post-acquisition  profits  or  losses  and  movements  in  other 
comprehensive  income.  When  the  Group’s  share  of  losses  in  a  joint  venture  equals  or  exceeds  its  interests  in  the 
joint venture (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in 
the joint venture), the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments 
on behalf of the joint venture.

Unrealised  gains  on  transactions  between  the  Group  and  its  joint  ventures  are  eliminated  to  the  extent  of  the 
Group’s interest in the joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence 
of an impairment of the asset transferred.

116

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.2  Consolidation (Continued)

(e)  Associated companies

Associated  companies  are  all  entities  over  which  the  Group  has  significant  influence  but  not  control,  generally 
accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associated companies 
are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investments 
in associated companies includes goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) identified on acquisition.

If  the  ownership  interest  in  an  associate  is  reduced  but  significant  influence  is  retained,  only  a  proportionate 
share of the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where 
appropriate.

The Group’s share of its associated companies’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the consolidated 
profit  and  loss  account,  and  its  share  of  post-acquisition  movements  in  reserves  is  recognised  in  reserves.  The 
cumulative  post-acquisition  movements  are  adjusted  against  the  carrying  amount  of  the  investment.  When  the 
Group’s share of losses in an associated company equals or exceeds its interest in the associated company, including 
any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or 
made payments on behalf of the associated company.

Profits  and  losses  resulting  from  upstream  and  downstream  transactions  between  the  Group  and  its  associated 
companies  are  recognised  in  the  Group’s  financial  statements  only  to  the  extent  of  unrelated  investor’s  interests 
in  the  associated  companies.  Unrealised  losses  are  also  eliminated  unless  the  transaction  provides  evidence  of 
an  impairment  of  the  asset  transferred.  Accounting  policies  of  associated  companies  have  been  changed  where 
necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.

2.3  Property, plant and equipment

All property,  plant and  equipment are  stated  at  historical  cost  less  depreciation and impairment losses. Historical cost 
includes  expenditure  that  is  directly  attributable  to  the  acquisition  of  the  items.  Subsequent  costs  are  included  in  the 
asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic 
benefits  associated  with  the  item  will  flow  to  the  Group  and  the  cost  of  the  item  can  be  measured  reliably.  All  other 
repairs  and  maintenance  are  charged  to  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  during  the  financial  period  in  which 
they are incurred.

No depreciation is provided for assets under construction and freehold land.

117117

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.3  Property, plant and equipment (Continued)

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their 
residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows:

Container vessels
Containers and chassis
Terminal equipment and improvement
Freehold buildings
Buildings outside Hong Kong
Leasehold improvement
Furniture, vehicles, scrubbers and other vessel equipment, 

25 years
10 to 15 years
3 to 15 years
Not exceeding 75 years
Over period of the lease
Over period of the lease or 5 years whichever is lower
3 to 10 years

computer and other equipment

The  residual  values  of  the  assets  and  their  useful  lives  are  reviewed  and  adjusted  if  appropriate,  at  each  balance  sheet 
date.

The carrying amount of an asset is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount of the 
asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.

Gains  and  losses  on  disposals  are  determined  as  the  difference  between  the  net  disposal  proceeds  and  the  carrying 
amounts of the assets and are dealt with in the consolidated profit and loss account.

2.4  Investment property

Property  that  is  held  for  long-term  rental  yields  or  for  capital  appreciation  or  both,  and  that  is  not  occupied  by  the 
companies in the Group, is classified as investment property.

Investment  property  is  initially  measured  at  cost,  including  related  transaction  costs  and  where  applicable  borrowing 
costs. After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair value. Fair value is based on valuation carried out 
semi-annually by an independent external valuer. Changes in fair values are recognised in the consolidated profit and 
loss account.

2.5  Vessel repairs and surveys

Upon  acquisition  of  a  vessel,  the  components  of  the  vessel  which  are  required  to  be  replaced  at  the  next  dry-docking 
are identified and their costs are depreciated over five years to the next estimated dry-docking date. Costs incurred on 
subsequent  dry-docking  of  vessels  are  capitalised  and  depreciated  over  the  period  to  the  next  estimated  dry-docking 
date. When significant dry-docking costs incurred prior to the expiry of the depreciation period, the remaining costs of 
the previous dry-docking are written off immediately.

118

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.6  Intangible assets

(a)  Goodwill

Goodwill  represents  the  excess  of  the  cost  of  an  acquisition  over  the  fair  value  of  the  Group’s  share  of  the 
net  identifiable  assets  of  the  acquired  subsidiary,  associated  company  or  joint  venture  at  the  effective  date  of 
acquisition.

Goodwill on acquisition of a foreign operation is treated as an asset of the foreign operation.

Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiaries is retained at the carrying amount as an intangible asset. Goodwill 
arising  on  acquisition  of  associated  companies  and  joint  ventures  is  included  within  investments  in  associated 
companies  and  joint  ventures  respectively  and  is  tested  for  impairment  as  part  of  overall  balance.  Separately 
recognised  goodwill  is  subject  to  impairment  review  annually  and  when  there  are  indications  that  the  carrying 
value  may  not  be  recoverable.  If  the  cost  of  acquisition  is  less  than  the  fair  value  of  the  Group’s  share  of  the  net 
identifiable assets of the acquired company, the difference is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

(b)  Computer software

Costs  associated  with  maintaining  computer  software  programs  are  recognised  as  an  expense  as  incurred.  Costs 
that  are  directly  associated  with  the  production  of  identifiable  and  unique  software  products  controlled  by  the 
Group,  and  that  will  probably  generate  economic  benefits  exceeding  costs  beyond  one  year,  are  recognised  as 
intangible  assets.  Direct  costs  include  the  software  development  employee  costs  and  an  appropriate  portion  of 
relevant overheads.

Computer software costs mainly comprise internally generated capitalised software development costs.

Computer  software  costs  recognised  as  assets  are  stated  at  cost  less  accumulated  amortisation.  Amortisation  is 
calculated on the straight– line basis over their estimated useful life, with a maximum of five years.

2.7  Impairment of investments in subsidiaries and non-financial assets

Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation, and are at least tested annually for impairment. 
Assets  that  are  subject  to  amortisation  are  reviewed  for  impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which 
the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value 
of an asset less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest 
levels  for  which  there  are  separately  identifiable  cash  inflows  (cash  generating  units).  Non-financial  assets  other  than 
goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.

Impairment  testing  of  the  investments  in  subsidiaries  is  required  upon  receiving  dividends  from  these  investments  if 
the dividend exceeds the total comprehensive income of the subsidiary in the period the dividend is declared or if the 
carrying  amount  of  the  investment  in  the  separate  account  exceeds  the  carrying  amount  in  the  consolidated  financial 
statements of the investee’s net assets including goodwill.

119119

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.8  Non-current assets (or disposal groups) held for sale and discontinued operations

Non-current  assets  (or  disposal  groups)  are  classified  as  held  for  sale  if  their  carrying  amount  will  be  recovered 
principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use and a sale is considered highly probable. They 
are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, except for assets such as deferred tax 
assets, assets arising from employee benefits, financial assets and investment property that are carried at fair value and 
contractual rights under insurance contracts, which are specifically exempt from this requirement.

Non-current assets (including those that are part of a disposal group) are not depreciated or amortised while they are 
classified as held for sale. Interest and other expenses attributable to the liabilities of a disposal group classified as held 
for sale continue to be recognised.

Non-current assets classified as held for sale and the assets of a disposal group classified as held for sale are presented 
separately from the other assets in the consolidated balance sheet. The liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for 
sale are presented separately from other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.

A discontinued operation is a component of the entity that has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale and that 
represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, is part of a single co-ordinated plan to 
dispose of such a line of business or area of operations, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. The 
results of discontinued operations are presented separately in the consolidated profit and loss account.

2.9  Investments and other financial assets

(a)  Classification

The Group classifies its financial assets in the following measurement categories:

• 

those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either through other comprehensive income or through profit 
or loss); and

• 

those to be measured at amortised cost.

The  classification  depends  on  the  entity’s  business  model  for  managing  the  financial  assets  and  the  contractual 
terms of the cash flows.

For assets measured at fair value, gains and losses will either be recorded in profit or loss or other comprehensive 
income. For investments in equity instruments that are not held for trading, this will depend on whether the Group 
has made an irrevocable election at the time of initial recognition to account for the equity investment at fair value 
through other comprehensive income.

The Group reclassifies debt investments when and only when its business model for managing those assets changes.

(b)  Recognition and derecognition

Regular  way  purchases  and  sales  of  financial  assets  are  recognised  on  trade-date,  the  date  on  which  the  Group 
commits to purchase or sell the asset. Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from 
the financial assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks 
and rewards of ownership.

120

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.9 Investments and other financial assets (Continued)

(c)  Measurement

At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not 
at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial 
asset. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are expensed in profit or loss.

Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining whether their cash 
flows are solely payment of principal and interest.

Debt instruments

Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group’s business model for managing the asset and 
the cash flow characteristics of the asset. There are three measurement categories into which the Group classifies its 
debt instruments:

• 

• 

• 

Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent 
solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost. Interest income from these financial 
assets is included in “other operating income” using the effective interest rate method. Any gain or loss arising 
on derecognition is recognised directly in profit or loss and presented in “other gains/(losses)” together with 
foreign exchange gains and losses. Impairment losses are presented as separate line item in the consolidated 
profit and loss account.

Fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income:  Assets  that  are  held  for  collection  of  contractual  cash 
flows  and  for  selling  the  financial  assets,  where  the  assets’  cash  flows  represent  solely  payments  of  principal 
and  interest,  are  measured  at  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income.  Movements  in  the  carrying 
amount  are  taken  through  other  comprehensive  income,  except  for  the  recognition  of  impairment  gains  or 
losses,  interest  income  and  foreign  exchange  gains  and  losses  which  are  recognised  in  profit  or  loss.  When 
the financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive 
income  is  reclassified  from  equity  to  profit  or  loss  and  recognised  in  “other  gains/(losses)”.  Interest  income 
from  these  financial  assets  is  included  in  “other  operating  income”  using  the  effective  interest  rate  method. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in “other gains/(losses)”. Impairment losses are presented as 
separate line item in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Fair value through profit or loss: Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or fair value through 
other  comprehensive  income  are  measured  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss.  A  gain  or  loss  on  a  debt 
investment that is subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss is recognised in profit or loss and 
presented net within “other gains/(losses)” in the period in which it arises.

121121

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.9 Investments and other financial assets (Continued)

(c)  Measurement (Continued)

Equity instruments

The Group subsequently measures all equity investments at fair value. Where the Group’s management has elected 
to present fair value gains and losses on equity investments in other comprehensive income, there is no subsequent 
reclassification  of  fair  value  gains  and  losses  to  profit  or  loss  following  the  derecognition  of  the  investment. 
Dividends from such investments continue to be recognised in profit or loss as “other operating income” when the 
Group’s right to receive payments is established.

Changes  in  the  fair  value  of  financial  assets  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss  are  recognised  in  “other  gains/
(losses)”  in  profit  or  loss  as  applicable.  Impairment  losses  (and  reversal  of  impairment  losses)  on  equity 
investments  measured  at  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income  are  not  reported  separately  from  other 
changes in fair value.

(d)  Impairment

The  Group  assesses  on  a  forward  looking  basis  the  expected  credit  losses  associated  with  its  debt  instruments 
carried  at  amortised  cost  and  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income.  The  impairment  methodology 
applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.

For trade receivables, the Group applies the simplified approach permitted by HKFRS 9, which requires expected 
lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.

(e)  Offsetting financial instruments

Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the consolidated balance sheet when there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or 
realise  the  asset  and  settle  the  liability  simultaneously.  The  legally  enforceable  right  must  not  be  contingent  on 
future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or 
bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty.

2.10 Inventories

Inventories mainly comprise bunkers and consumable stores. Cost is calculated on weighted average basis. Inventories 
are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses.

2.11 Debtors

Debtors  are  recognised  initially  at  fair  value  and  subsequently  measured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective  interest 
method,  less  provision  for  impairment.  A  provision  for  impairment  of  debtors  is  established  when  there  is  objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables and is 
also based on expected credit losses rather than only incurred credit losses. The amount of the provision is recognised in 
the consolidated profit and loss account. More information about the impairment policies of debtors is disclosed in note 
3.1(c).

If collection of debtors is expected in one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they 
are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets.

122

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.12 Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks with original maturities of three months 
or less.

2.13 Share capital

Ordinary shares are classified as equity.

Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the 
proceeds.

2.14 Creditors

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business 
from suppliers. Creditors are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal 
operating cycle of the business if longer. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.

Trade  creditors  are  recognised  initially  at  fair  value  and  subsequently  measured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective 
interest method.

2.15 Borrowings

Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at 
amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in 
the consolidated profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.

Borrowings  are  classified  as  current  liabilities  unless  the  Group  has  an  unconditional  right  to  defer  settlement  of  the 
liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.

Fees  paid  on  the  establishment  of  loan  facilities  are  recognised  as  transaction  costs  of  the  loan  to  the  extent  that  it 
is  probable  that  some  or  all  of  the  facility  will  be  drawn  down.  In  this  case,  the  fee  is  deferred  until  the  draw-down 
occurs. To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is 
capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.

2.16 Current and deferred taxation

The tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss 
account, except to the extent that it relates to item recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In 
this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.

The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet  date  in  the  countries  where  the  Company’s  subsidiaries,  joint  ventures  and  associated  companies  operate  and 
generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in 
which  applicable  tax  regulation  is  subject  to  interpretation.  It  establishes  provisions  where  appropriate  on  the  basis  of 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.

Deferred taxation is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases 
of  assets  and  liabilities  and  their  carrying  amounts  in  the  consolidated  financial  statements.  However,  if  the  deferred 
taxation arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at 
the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred taxation 
is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected 
to apply when the related deferred taxation asset is realised or the deferred taxation liability is settled.

123123

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.16 Current and deferred taxation (Continued)

Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be utilised.

Deferred taxation is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associated companies and 
joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is 
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities related to income taxes levied by the 
same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the 
balances on a net basis.

2.17 Employee benefits

(a)  Pension obligations

The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension and retirement benefit schemes 
in  the  main  countries  in  which  the  Group  operates.  These  schemes  are  generally  funded  by  payments  from 
employees and by relevant group companies, taking into account of the recommendations of independent qualified 
actuaries where required.

A  defined  benefit  plan  is  a  pension  plan  that  is  not  a  defined  contribution  plan.  Typically  defined  benefit  plans 
define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more 
factors such as age, years of service and compensation.

The liability recognised in the consolidated balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present 
value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit 
obligation  is  calculated  annually  by  independent  actuaries  using  the  projected  expected  benefit  payments.  The 
present  value  of  the  defined  benefit  obligation  is  determined  by  discounting  the  estimated  future  cash  outflows 
using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will 
be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. In countries 
where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.

The  current  service  cost  of  the  defined  benefit  plan,  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  in 
employee benefit expense, except where included in the cost of an asset, reflects the increase in the defined benefit 
obligation results from employee service in the current year, benefit changes, curtailments and settlements.

Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the consolidated profit and loss account.

The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation 
and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in the consolidated profit and 
loss account.

Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or 
credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.

Contributions under the defined contribution schemes are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are 
due and are reduced by contributions forfeited by those employees who leave the scheme prior to vesting fully in 
the contributions. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in 
the future payments is available.

124

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.17 Employee benefits (Continued)

(b)  Bonus plans

The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses, based on a formula that takes into consideration the 
profit  attributable  to  the  Company’s  shareholders  after  certain  adjustments.  The  Group  recognises  a  provision 
where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.

(c)  Employee leave entitlements

Employee  entitlements  to  annual  leave  are  recognised  when  they  accrue  to  employees.  A  provision  is  made  for 
the estimated liability for annual leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the balance sheet date. 
Employee entitlements to sick leave and maternity leave are not recognised until the time of leave.

(d)  Share-based payments

Employee services settled in equity instruments

An  intermediate  holding  company  of  the  Group  operates  an  equity–settled,  share-based  compensation  plan.  The 
fair  value  of  the  employee  services  received  in  exchange  for  the  grant  of  the  share  options  of  the  intermediate 
holding  company  is  recognised  as  an  expense.  The  total  amount  to  be  expensed  over  the  vesting  period  is 
determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting 
conditions.  Non–market  vesting  conditions  are  included  in  assumptions  about  the  number  of  options  that  are 
expected  to  become  exercisable.  At  each  balance  sheet  date,  the  Group  revises  its  estimates  of  the  number  of 
options that are expected to become exercisable. It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, 
in the consolidated profit and loss account, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting 
period.

2.18 Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated.

Where  there  are  a  number  of  similar  obligations,  the  likelihood  that  an  outflow  will  be  required  in  settlement  is 
determined  by  considering  the  class  of  obligations  as  a  whole.  A  provision  is  recognised  even  if  the  likelihood  of  an 
outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.

A  provision  for  onerous  contracts  is  recognised  where  the  unavoidable  costs  of  meeting  the  obligations  under  the 
contracts exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under them.

The unavoidable costs under a contract reflect the least net cost of exiting from the contract, which is the lower of the 
cost of fulfilling it and any compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil it.

The  cost  of  fulfilling  a  contract  comprises  the  costs  that  relate  directly  to  the  contract.  Costs  that  relate  directly  to  a 
contract consist of both:

• 

• 

the incremental costs of fulfilling that contract – for example, cargo cost; and

an allocation of other costs that relate directly to fulfilling contracts – for example, an allocation of the depreciation 
charge for an item of property, plant and equipment used in fulfilling that contract among others.

125125

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.19 Financial guarantee contracts

Financial  guarantee  contracts  are  recognised  as  a  financial  liability  at  the  time  the  guarantee  is  issued.  The  liability  is 
initially measured at fair value and subsequently at the higher of:

• 

• 

the  amount  determined  in  accordance  with  the  expected  credit  loss  model  under  HKFRS  9  “Financial 
Instruments”; and

the  amount  initially  recognised  less,  where  appropriate,  the  cumulative  amount  of  income  recognised  in 
accordance with the principles of HKFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”.

The fair value of financial guarantees is determined based on the present value of the difference in cash flows between 
the  contractual  payments  required  under  the  debt  instrument  and  the  payments  that  would  be  required  without  the 
guarantee, or the estimated amount that would be payable to a third party for assuming the obligations.

Where guarantees in relation to loans or other payables of associated companies and joint ventures are provided for no 
compensation, the fair values are accounted for as contributions and recognised as part of the cost of the investment.

2.20 Segment information

Operating  segments  are  reported  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the  internal  reporting  provided  to  the  chief  operating 
decision-makers.  The  chief  operating  decision-makers,  who  are  responsible  for  allocating  resources  and  assessing 
performance of the operating segments and making strategic decisions, have been identified as the Executive Directors.

2.21 Foreign currency translation

(a)  Functional and presentation currency

Items  included  in  the  financial  statements  of  each  of  the  Group’s  entities  are  measured  using  the  currency  of 
the  primary  economic  environment  in  which  the  entity  operates  (the  “functional  currency”).  The  consolidated 
financial  statements  are  presented  in  US  dollar,  which  is  the  Company’s  functional  currency  and  the  Group’s 
presentation currency.

(b)  Transactions and balances

Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and 
from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Changes in the fair value of debt securities denominated in foreign currency classified as investments at fair value 
through  other  comprehensive  income  are  analysed  between  translation  differences  resulting  from  changes  in  the 
amortised  cost  of  the  security  and  other  changes  in  the  carrying  amount  of  the  security.  Translation  differences 
related  to  changes  in  amortised  cost  are  recognised  in  profit  or  loss,  and  other  changes  in  carrying  amount  are 
recognised in other comprehensive income.

Translation  differences  on  non-monetary  items,  such  as  equities  held  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss,  are 
reported  as  part  of  the  fair  value  gain  or  loss.  Translation  differences  on  non-monetary  items,  such  as  equities 
classified  as  investments  at  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income,  are  included  in  the  investments 
revaluation reserve in other comprehensive income.

126

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.21 Foreign currency translation (Continued)

(c)  Group companies

The results and financial position of all the group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary 
economy)  that  have  a  functional  currency  different  from  the  presentation  currency  are  translated  into  the 
presentation currency as follows:

(i)  assets  and  liabilities  for  each  balance  sheet  presented  are  translated  at  the  closing  rate  at  the  date  of  that 

balance sheet;

(ii) 

income  and  expenses  for  each  profit  and  loss  account  are  translated  at  average  exchange  rates  (unless 
this  average  is  not  a  reasonable  approximation  of  the  cumulative  effect  of  the  rates  prevailing  on  the 
transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rates prevailing on the dates of the 
transactions); and

(iii)  all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.

On  consolidation,  exchange  differences  arising  from  the  translation  of  the  net  investment  in  foreign  entities, 
and  of  borrowings  and  other  currency  instruments  designated  as  hedges  of  such  investments,  are  taken  to  other 
comprehensive  income.  When  a  foreign  operation  is  sold,  such  exchange  differences  are  recognised  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account as part of the gain or loss on sale.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities 
of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.

2.22 Revenue recognition

Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of services, net of value-added 
tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. Revenue is recognised as follows:

(a)  Freight  revenues  from  the  operation  of  the  container  transport  are  recognised  over  time  which  is  determined  on 

the percentage of completion basis of each individual vessel voyage.

(b)  Revenues from logistics business are recognised when services are rendered or over time which is determined on 

the percentage of completion basis of the progress of the transportation.

(c)  Revenues from the operation of container terminals and provision of other services are recognised when services 

are rendered.

(d)  Rental income under operating leases is recognised over the periods of the respective leases on a straight-line basis.

2.23 Interest income

Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.

2.24 Dividend income

Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.

127127

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.25 Contract assets and contract liabilities

Upon  entering  into  a  contract  with  a  customer,  the  Group  obtains  rights  to  receive  consideration  from  the  customer 
and assumes performance obligations to transfer goods or provide services to the customer. The combination of those 
rights  and  performance  obligations  gives  rise  to  a  net  asset  or  a  net  liability  depending  on  the  relationship  between 
the remaining rights and the performance obligations. The contract is an asset and recognised as contract assets if the 
measure of the remaining rights exceeds the measure of the remaining performance obligations. Conversely, the contract 
is a liability and recognised as contract liabilities if the measure of the remaining performance obligations exceeds the 
measure of the remaining rights.

2.26 Leases

Leases are recognised as a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability at the date at which the leased asset is available 
for use by the Group.

Contracts  may  contain  both  lease  and  non-lease  components.  The  Group  allocates  the  consideration  in  the  contract 
to the lease and non-lease components based on their relative stand-alone prices. However, for leases of real estate for 
which the Group is a lessee, it has elected not to separate lease and non-lease components and instead accounts for these 
as a single lease component.

Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially measured on a present value basis. Lease liabilities include the net 
present value of the following lease payments:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives receivable;

variable  lease  payment  that  are  based  on  an  index  or  a  rate,  initially  measured  using  the  index  or  rate  as  at  the 
commencement date;

amounts expected to be payable by the Group under residual value guarantees;

the exercise price of a purchase option if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that option; and

payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the Group exercising that option.

Lease  payments  to  be  made  under  reasonably  certain  extension  options  are  also  included  in  the  measurement  of  the 
liability.

The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be readily determined, 
which is generally the case for leases in the Group, the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate is used, being the rate that the 
individual lessee would have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset of similar value to the right-of-use 
asset in a similar economic environment with similar terms, security and conditions.

The Group is exposed to potential future increases in variable lease payments based on an index or rate, which are not 
included in the lease liability until they take effect. When adjustments to lease payments based on an index or rate take 
effect, the lease liability is reassessed and adjusted against the right-of-use asset.

Lease payments are allocated between principal and finance cost. The finance cost is charged to profit or loss over the 
lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.

128

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.26 Leases (Continued)

Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the following:

• 

• 

• 

• 

the amount of the initial measurement of lease liability;

any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received;

any initial direct costs; and

restoration costs.

Right-of-use assets are generally depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the lease term on a straight-
line basis. If the Group is reasonably certain to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated over the 
underlying asset’s useful life.

Payments  associated  with  short-term  leases  and  leases  of  low-value  assets  are  recognised  on  a  straight-line  basis  as 
an  expense  in  profit  or  loss.  Short–term  leases  are  leases  with  a  lease  term  of  twelve  months  or  less.  Low-value  assets 
comprise containers and small items of office furniture.

Lease income from operating leases where the Group is a lessor is recognised in income on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term (note 19). Initial direct costs incurred in obtaining an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the 
underlying asset and recognised as expense over the lease term on the same basis as lease income. The respective leased 
assets are included in the consolidated balance sheet based on their nature.

HKFRS  16  requires  sale  and  leaseback  transactions  to  be  determined  based  on  the  requirement  of  HKFRS  15  as  to 
whether the transfer of the relevant asset should be accounted as a sale.

2.27 Borrowing costs

Borrowing  costs  are  expensed  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  in  the  period  in  which  they  are  incurred, 
except to the extent that they are capitalised as being directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production 
of a qualifying asset which necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale.

The  capitalisation  of  borrowing  costs  as  part  of  the  cost  of  a  qualifying  asset  commences  when  expenditure  for  the 
asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for its 
intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the 
activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.

2.28 Derivative financial instruments

Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and 
are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. Changes in fair value are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss 
account.

2.29 Dividend distribution

Dividend distribution to the Company’s equity holders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s consolidated financial 
statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s Directors/equity holders.

129129

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.30 Government grants

Grants from the government are recognised at their fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be 
received and the Group will comply with all attached conditions.

Government  grants  relating  to  the  purchase  of  property,  plant  and  equipment  are  recognised  as  a  deduction  from  the 
carrying amount of the related assets in the consolidated balance sheet and are credited to profit or loss on a straight-
line basis over the expected lives of the related assets.

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

3.1  Financial risk factors

The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: foreign exchange risk, price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk 
and cash flow interest rate risk. The Group’s overall risk management policy focuses on the unpredictability of financial 
markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance.

The  Group  has  regularly  monitored  current  and  expected  liquidity  requirements  against  the  cash  on  hand,  expected 
net  operating  cash  flow,  committed  facilities  and  its  compliance  with  loan  covenants,  to  ensure  the  Group’s  liquidity 
requirements can be met in the short and longer term.

The Group has paid ongoing attention on credit quality of counterparties, in particular major customers and financial 
institutions with relationship in terms of debt securities, derivatives and cash transactions. Credit qualities of respective 
counterparties are disclosed in respective notes to the consolidated financial statements.

(a)  Foreign exchange risk

The  Group  operates  internationally  and  is  exposed  to  foreign  exchange  risk  arising  from  various  currency 
exposures, primarily with respect to fluctuation in the exchange rates of foreign currencies to the US dollar. Foreign 
currency exposures are covered by forward contracts and options whenever appropriate.

Income and expenses from container transport and logistics activities are mainly denominated in US dollar and in 
various currencies, mainly including Australian dollar, Canadian dollar, Euro, Japanese yen and Renminbi.

To  limit  currency  exposure,  the  US  dollar  based  activities  are  financed  primarily  by  loans  in  US  dollar.  With  all 
other  variables  held  constant,  an  average  change  in  the  US  dollar  exchange  rate  of  1%,  compared  with  all  other 
non-US  dollar  related  currencies,  has  a  positive/negative  effect  on  the  results  for  2020  of  approximately  US$3.9 
million (2019: US$3.5 million).

130

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.1  Financial risk factors (Continued)

(b)  Price risk

The  container  transport  and  logistics  activities  are  sensitive  to  economic  fluctuations.  The  Group  is  exposed  to 
freight  rate  risk.  The  Group’s  revenue  will  increase/decrease  by  US$72.8  million  (2019:  US$61.3  million)  for  1% 
increase/reduction of the average container freight rates with all other variables held constant.

The Group is exposed to bunker price risk for its container transport and logistics activities. Bunker cost is one of 
the major cost components of container transport and logistics activities. An increase in bunker price can only be 
partially  compensated  through  freight  surcharge  bunker  price  adjustment.  With  all  other  variables  held  constant, 
the  operating  costs  will  be  increased  by  approximately  US$1.9  million  (2019:  US$1.9  million)  for  one  US  dollar 
increase in bunker price per ton.

The  Group  is  also  exposed  to  equity/debt  securities  price  risk  because  of  investments  held  by  the  Group  include 
investments  at  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income  or  portfolio  investments  at  fair  value  through 
profit  or  loss  which  are  accounted  at  fair  value.  To  manage  its  price  risk  arising  from  investments  in  equity/debt 
securities,  the  Group  diversifies  its  portfolio.  If  the  prices  of  the  respective  quoted  equity/debt  securities  of  the 
Group  had  been  increased/decreased  by  1%  and  all  other  variables  held  constant,  the  profit  after  taxation  of  the 
Group for the year ended 31st December 2020 would increase/decrease by US$1.0 million (2019: US$1.5 million) 
as  a  result  of  the  changes  in  fair  value  of  equity/debt  securities  under  portfolio  investments  at  fair  value  through 
profit or loss.

(c)  Credit risk

The  Group  has  no  significant  concentrations  of  credit  risk.  It  has  policies  in  place  to  ensure  that  services  are 
provided to customers with an appropriate credit history.

The  extent  of  the  Group’s  credit  exposure  is  mainly  represented  by  the  aggregate  balance  of  cash  and  bank 
balances, portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss, investments at amortised cost, restricted bank 
balances, trade receivables and other receivables. The credit quality of these exposures is disclosed in relevant notes 
to the consolidated financial statements.

(d)  Liquidity risk

Prudent  liquidity  risk  management  implies  maintaining  sufficient  cash  and  cash  equivalents,  the  availability  of 
funding  through  an  adequate  amount  of  committed  credit  facilities  and  the  ability  to  close  out  market  positions. 
The  Group  aims  to  maintain  flexibility  in  funding  by  keeping  sufficient  cash  and  cash  equivalents  and  readily 
realisable liquid assets.

Surplus  cash  held  by  the  operating  entities  over  and  above  balance  required  for  working  capital  management  is 
transferred to the Group Treasury. Group Treasury invests surplus cash in interest bearing current accounts, time 
deposits,  money  market  deposits  and  marketable  securities,  choosing  instruments  with  appropriate  maturities 
or  sufficient  liquidity  to  provide  sufficient  head-room.  At  the  reporting  date,  the  Group  held  liquid  assets  of 
US$3,173.4  million  (2019:  US$3,608.5  million)  that  are  expected  to  readily  generate  cash  inflows  for  managing 
liquidity risk.

131131

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.1  Financial risk factors (Continued)

(d)  Liquidity risk (Continued)

The  table  below  analyses  the  Group’s  non-derivative  financial  liabilities  and  net-settled  derivative  financial 
liabilities  into  relevant  maturity  groupings  based  on  the  remaining  period  at  the  balance  sheet  date  to  the 
contractual  maturity  date.  The  amounts  disclosed  in  the  table  are  the  contractual  undiscounted  cash  flows. 
Balances due within twelve months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.

US$’000

At 31st December 2020
Borrowings
Lease liabilities
Creditors and accruals

At 31st December 2019
Borrowings
Lease liabilities
Creditors and accruals
Dividend payable

(e)  Cash flow interest rate risk

Less than
 1 year

Between 1 
and 2 years

Between 2 
and 5 years

227,322
396,632
1,373,458

434,953
320,380
1,021,639
1,001,269

235,593
284,735
–

257,734
583,607
–
–

411,246
925,980
–

546,122
981,742
–
–

Over 
5 years

202,676
535,752
–

326,287
943,577 
– 
–

The  Group’s  income  and  operating  cash  flows  are  substantially  independent  of  changes  in  market  interest  rates. 
The Group has a policy to place surplus funds with creditable financial institutions which offer the best return for 
the Group on a short-term basis.

The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk through the impact of rate changes on interest bearing bank 
balances, borrowings and lease liabilities.

At 31st December 2020, if interest rates had been 0.1% higher/lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax 
profit for the year would have been US$0.7 million higher/lower (2019: US$0.5 million higher/lower), mainly as a 
result of higher/lower net interest income on the net floating rate bank balances.

3.2  Capital risk management

The  Group’s  objectives  when  managing  capital  are  to  safeguard  the  Group’s  ability  to  continue  as  a  going  concern 
in  order  to  provide  returns  for  shareholders  and  benefits  for  other  stakeholders  and  to  maintain  an  optimal  capital 
structure to reduce the cost of capital.

In  order  to  maintain  or  adjust  the  capital  structure,  the  Group  may  adjust  the  amount  of  dividends  paid  to  equity 
holders, return capital to equity holders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.

Consistent  with  others  in  the  industry,  the  Group  monitors  capital  on  the  basis  of  the  gearing  ratio.  This  ratio  is 
calculated as net debt divided by total equity. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings and lease liabilities (including 
“current  and  non-current  borrowings  and  lease  liabilities”  as  shown  in  the  consolidated  balance  sheet)  less  restricted 
bank balances, cash and bank balances and portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss.

132

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.2  Capital risk management (Continued)

The gearing ratios at 31st December 2020 and 2019 are as follows:

US$’000

Total borrowings (note 36)

Total lease liabilities (note 37)

Less: Restricted bank balances (note 25)

Cash and bank balances (note 32)

Portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss (note 31)

Net cash/(debt)

Total equity

Gearing ratio

2020

(1,033,595)

(2,036,248)

2019

(1,428,137)

(2,562,952)

(3,069,843)

(3,991,089)

2,246

3,072,795

100,560

60,294

3,455,570

152,923

105,758

(322,302)

5,642,494

4,927,407

N/A

0.07

The change in net cash/(debt) position results primarily from the profit generated during the year.

3.3  Fair value estimation

The  financial  instruments  that  are  measured  in  the  consolidated  balance  sheet  at  fair  value,  require  disclosure  of  fair 
value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy:

•  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).

• 

Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
(that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2).

• 

Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).

The  following  table  presents  the  Group’s  financial  assets  that  are  measured  at  fair  value  at  31st  December  2020  and 
2019:

US$’000

Assets
Portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss

Equity securities
Debt securities

Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income

Unlisted equity securities

Total assets

2020

Level 1

Level 3

Total

20,156
80,404

–

100,560

–
–

7,895

7,895

20,156
80,404

7,895

108,455

133133

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.3  Fair value estimation (Continued)

US$’000

Assets
Portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss

Equity securities
Debt securities

Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income

Unlisted equity securities

Total assets

There were no transfers among levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year.

2019

Level 1

Level 3

Total

37,673
115,250

–

152,923

–
–

15,694

15,694

37,673
115,250

15,694

168,617

The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet 
date. A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, 
industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market 
transactions on an arm’s length basis. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current 
bid price. These instruments are included in level 1. Instruments included in level 1 comprise portfolio investments at 
fair value through profit or loss.

The  fair  value  of  financial  instruments  that  are  not  traded  in  an  active  market  (for  example,  over-the-counter 
derivatives)  is  determined  by  using  valuation  techniques.  These  valuation  techniques  maximise  the  use  of  observable 
market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required 
to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.

If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.

Specific valuation techniques used to value levels 2 and 3 financial instruments include:

•  Dealer quotes.

• 

The  fair  value  of  forward  foreign  exchange  contracts  is  determined  using  forward  exchange  rates  at  the  balance 
sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value.

There were no changes in valuation techniques during the year.

Instruments included in level 3 comprise unlisted equity securities classified as investments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income.

The following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments:

US$’000

Opening balance
Currency translation adjustments
Disposals
Fair value change recognised in other comprehensive income

Closing balance

2020

15,694
1
–
(7,800)

7,895

2019

24,422
5
(808)
(7,925)

15,694

134

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

4.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS

Estimates and judgements used in preparing the consolidated financial statements are continually evaluated and are based on 
historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances.

The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 
financial year are discussed below.

(a)  Income taxes

The  Group  is  subject  to  income  tax  in  numerous  jurisdictions.  Significant  judgement  is  required  in  determining 
the  worldwide  provision  for  income  taxes.  There  are  many  transactions  and  calculations  for  which  the  ultimate  tax 
determination  is  uncertain  during  the  ordinary  course  of  business.  Where  the  final  tax  outcome  of  these  matters  is 
different  from  the  amounts  that  were  initially  recorded,  such  differences  will  impact  the  income  tax  and  deferred  tax 
provisions in the period in which such determination is made.

Deferred tax liabilities have not been established for income tax and withholding tax that would be payable on certain 
profits of overseas subsidiaries to be repatriated and distributed by way of dividends as the Directors consider that the 
timing of the reversal of the related temporary differences can be controlled or such profits will not be distributed and 
such temporary differences will not be reversed in the foreseeable future (note 23).

Recognition of deferred tax assets, which principally relate to tax losses, depends on management’s expectation of future 
taxable profit that will be available against which tax losses can be utilised. The outcome of their actual utilisation may 
be different.

(b)  Property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets and intangible assets

Management determines the estimated useful lives and residual values for the Group’s property, plant and equipment, 
right-of-use assets and intangible assets. Management will revise the depreciation and amortisation charges where useful 
lives and residual values are different from previously estimated.

Management  determines  the  estimated  useful  lives  and  related  depreciation  expenses  for  the  vessels  and  containers. 
Management  estimates  useful  lives  of  its  vessels  and  containers  by  reference  to  expected  usage  of  the  vessels  and 
containers,  expected  repair  and  maintenance,  and  technical  or  commercial  obsolescence  arising  from  changes  or 
improvements in the market. It could change significantly as a result of the changes of these factors.

Were  the  useful  lives  of  vessels  and  containers  to  differ  by  10%  from  management  estimates  with  all  other  variables 
held  constant,  it  is  estimated  that  depreciation  expense  would  increase  or  decrease  by  approximately  US$60.9  million 
or  US$42.1  million  respectively  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2020  (2019:  US$55.9  million  or  US$38.7  million 
respectively).

Management  determines  the  residual  values  for  its  vessels  and  containers.  This  estimate  is  based  on  the  current 
scrap  values  of  steels  in  an  active  market  at  each  measurement  date  since  management  decides  to  dispose  of  the  fully 
depreciated vessels and containers as scrap steels. Depreciation expense would increase where the residual values are less 
than previously estimated values.

135135

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

4.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (CONTINUED)

(b)  Property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets and intangible assets (Continued)

Were the residual values of vessels and containers to differ by 10% from management estimates with all other variables 
held  constant,  it  is  estimated  that  depreciation  expense  would  increase  or  decrease  by  approximately  US$14.0  million 
or  US$12.9  million  respectively  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2020  (2019:  US$11.4  million  or  US$10.7  million 
respectively).

(c)  Provision of operating costs

Operating  costs,  which  mainly  comprise  cargo  cost,  vessel  and  voyage  costs,  equipment  and  repositioning  costs  and 
terminal  operating  cost.  Invoices  in  relation  to  these  expenses  are  received  several  months  after  the  expenses  have 
been incurred. Consequently, recognition of accrued operating costs is based on the known services entered, pattern of 
historical costs as well as the estimated vendor tariffs.

If  the  actual  expenses  of  a  voyage  differ  from  the  estimated  expenses,  this  will  have  an  impact  on  operating  costs  in 
future periods. Historically, the Group has not experienced significant deviation from the actual expenses.

(d)  Commitment to long-term service agreement

The  Group  entered  into  a  Terminal  Service  Agreement  (“TSA”)  in  October  2019  following  the  completion  of  the 
disposal of Long Beach Container Terminal (“LBCT”). According to the TSA, the Group committed to place, or procure 
the  placement  of  an  annual  minimum  number  of  vessel  lifts  (“MVC”)  for  20  years.  Failure  to  meet  the  committed 
volume for each of the contract year would require certain level of deficiency payment as stipulated in the TSA.

As at 31st December 2020, the Group reassessed the expected number of vessel lifts in LBCT for each of the remaining 
contract years with reference to future prospects of the market and its expected load factor. Considering the prolonged 
COVID-19  pandemic  in  the  USA  and  the  uncertain  vaccine  efficacy,  recovery  of  the  USA  economy  has  been  affected 
and was expected to be continuously affected for the foreseeable future. It was expected that a slower economy growth 
would  affect  the  demand/import  of  the  USA  for  some  time  as  it  shall  take  years  to  recover  from  various  pandemic 
impact. In addition, the pandemic also changed the cargo inflow to the USA by other means. As at 31st December 2020, 
with these uncertainties over such long-term period of the TSA, management reassessed that the projected vessel lifts in 
LBCT would grow at a smaller and slower extent compared with prior year’s assessment and thus led to a shortfall on 
MVC over the remaining contract period.

As  such,  the  Group  further  estimated  the  present  value  of  the  unavoidable  costs  of  meeting  the  obligations  under  the 
remaining  term  of  the  TSA  (till  October  2039)  and  the  corresponding  associated  economic  benefits  in  relation  to 
the  Group  with  reference  to  a)  the  expected  number  of  vessel  lifts;  b)  the  expected  amount  of  deficiency  payment/
excess  rebates  as  stipulated  in  the  TSA  when  the  volume  is  below/in  excess  of  the  MVC;  c)  the  expected  operating 
costs  (including  cargo  cost,  vessel  and  voyage  costs  and  equipment  and  repositioning  costs);  and  d)  the  associated 
income expected to be earned from operating the service routes to/from LBCT. Based on the assessment performed by 
management, an onerous provision of US$348.5 million (2019: nil) was recognised as at 31st December 2020.

136

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

4.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (CONTINUED)

(d)  Commitment to long-term service agreement (Continued)

The  Group  applied  the  expected  value  approach  considering  several  probability-weighted  possible  scenarios  which 
included adjusting key assumptions such as volume, freight rate, bunker cost and probability applied on the scenarios. 
The  onerous  contract  assessment  involves  a  significant  level  of  management  estimates  and  judgement,  including  the 
future profitability generated from routes using LBCT and the expected number of vessel lifts handled in LBCT during 
the remaining contract term. To the extent that the actual results differ from these estimates, the amount of provision 
will  be  differed  and  will  affect  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account.  The  provision,  including  the  estimates  and 
assumptions contained therein, are reviewed regularly by management. The key assumptions used by management as at 
31st December 2020 are as follows:

Key assumptions

Volume growth rate
Freight rate growth rate
Bunker cost
Probability applied

Range of possible scenarios

–3% to +14%
–5% to +5%
–5% to +5% on fuel oil futures
2% to 60%

For  illustration  purpose,  management  has  performed  sensitivity  analysis  by  adjusting  the  probability  applied  to  the 
possible scenarios. The effects for the respective sensitivity analysis, holding other factors constant, are set out below:

Sensitivity cases

Change of onerous provision as at 31st December 2020

Changing the most probable scenario to 100%
Changing the most probable scenario to 40%  
and second most probable scenario to 35%
Changing the most probable scenario to 40%  
and third most probable scenario to 34%

Decrease by approximately US$2 million
Increase by approximately US$63 million

Decrease by approximately US$63 million

(e)  Recognition of freight revenue of vessel voyages in progress at year end

The  Group  recognises  freight  revenue  from  container  transport  operation  based  on  the  sailing  schedules  and  the 
respective  freight  rates.  For  vessel  voyages  in  progress  at  the  year  end,  the  Group  applies  a  percentage  of  completion 
to  the  freight  revenue  under  each  vessel  voyage  and  the  percentage  is  determined  based  on  the  days  of  vessel  voyage 
completed to date relative to total estimated days required for the completion of the entire voyage. If the total estimated 
vessel voyage days were different from the estimate, this would have an impact on the freight revenue in the following 
reporting period.

Had  the  percentage  of  completion  to  freight  revenue  from  vessel  voyages  in  progress  at  year  end  been  decreased  or 
increased  by  10%  from  management’s  estimate  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2020,  the  revenue  would  have  been 
US$20.5 million (2019: US$6.0 million) lower or higher in the current period.

Changes in management’s estimate of freight revenue for vessel voyages in progress at year end could cause a material 
change in freight revenue recognised in the current period.

137137

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION

(a)  Revenue

US$’000

Container transport and logistics

Others

2020

8,164,201

27,103

2019

6,851,974

26,766

8,191,304

6,878,740

The principal activities of the Group are container transport and logistics.

Revenue comprises gross freight, charter hire, service and other income from the operation of the container transport 
and logistics and rental income from the investment property.

(b)  Segment information

The  principal  activities  of  the  Group  are  container  transport  and  logistics.  Container  transport  and  logistics  include 
global  containerised  shipping  services  in  major  trade  lanes,  covering  Trans-Pacific,  Trans-Atlantic,  Asia/Europe,  Asia/
Australia and Intra-Asia trades, and integrated services over the management and control of effective storage and flow 
of goods. In accordance with the Group’s internal financial reporting provided to the chief operating decision-makers, 
who  are  responsible  for  allocating  resources,  assessing  performance  of  the  operating  segments  and  making  strategic 
decisions, the reportable operating segments are container transport and logistics and others. The Executive Directors 
are the Group’s chief operating decision-makers.

138

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

Operating segments

The segment results for the year ended 31st December 2020 are as follows:

US$’000

Revenue from contracts with customers:

Over time

Revenue from other source:

Rental income

Other operating income

Operating profit/(loss)
Finance costs (note 12)
Share of profits of joint ventures (note 20)
Share of profits of associated companies (note 21)

Profit/(loss) before taxation
Taxation (note 13)

Profit for the year

Fair value loss from an investment property
Additions to non-current assets#
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
Depreciation of right-of-use assets
Amortisation

Continuing operations

Container 
transport 
and logistics

Others

Total

8,164,201

–

8,164,201

–

8,164,201
45,224

8,209,425

992,628
(91,312)
3,290
9,509

914,115
(21,114)

893,001

–
501,433
235,078
195,599
21,497

27,103

27,103
33,629

60,732

(441)
–
–
–

(441)
10,458

10,017

(30,492)
493
12
–
–

27,103

8,191,304
78,853

8,270,157

992,187
(91,312)
3,290
9,509

913,674
(10,656)

903,018

(30,492)
501,926
235,090
195,599
21,497

139139

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

Operating segments (Continued)

The segment results for the year ended 31st December 2019 are as follows:

Continuing operations

Container 

transport 

Discontinued 

US$’000

and logistics

Others

Sub-total

operation*

Total

Revenue from contracts with customers:

At a point in time

Over time

Revenue from other source:

Rental income

Other operating income

Operating profit

Finance costs (note 12)

Share of profits of joint ventures (note 20)

Share of profits of associated companies (note 21)

Profit before taxation

Taxation (note 13)

Profit after taxation

Profit on disposal of a subsidiary

Profit for the year

Fair value loss from an investment property

Additions to non-current assets#

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment

Depreciation of right-of-use assets

Amortisation

517,328

6,334,646

6,851,974

–

6,851,974

25,978

6,877,952

279,281

(151,599)

4,116

10,028

141,826

(22,722)

119,104

–

119,104

–

369,323

213,477

195,767

20,081

–

–

–

26,766

26,766

57,701

84,467

82,000

–

–

–

82,000

(47,117)

34,883

–

34,883

(703)

703

11

–

–

517,328

6,334,646

–

111,608

517,328

6,446,254

6,851,974

111,608

6,963,582

26,766

6,878,740

83,679

–

26,766

111,608

1,198

6,990,348

84,877

6,962,419

112,806

7,075,225

361,281

(151,599)

4,116

10,028

223,826

(69,839)

153,987

–

76,828

(35,656)

–

–

41,172

–

41,172

1,153,634

438,109

(187,255)

4,116

10,028

264,998

(69,839)

195,159

1,153,634

153,987

1,194,806

1,348,793

(703)

370,026

213,488

195,767

20,081

–

17,166

–

–

–

(703)

387,192

213,488

195,767

20,081

# 

Additions  to  non-current  assets  comprise  additions  to  property,  plant  and  equipment,  right-of-use  assets,  investment  property  and 

intangible assets.

* 

The amount of revenue for discontinued operation is presented after eliminating inter-segment revenue of US$184.4 million for the year 

ended 31st December 2019.

140

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

Operating segments (Continued)

The segment assets and liabilities at 31st December 2020 and 2019 are as follows:

US$’000

Segment assets

Joint ventures

Associated companies

Total assets

Segment liabilities

US$’000

Segment assets

Joint ventures

Associated companies

Total assets

Segment liabilities

Container

transport

and logistics

8,922,942

10,053

144,987

2020

Others

Group

1,566,571

10,489,513

–

–

10,053

144,987

9,077,982

1,566,571

10,644,553

(4,856,120)

(145,939)

(5,002,059)

Container 

transport 

and logistics

9,478,546

10,964

137,665

2019

Others

Group

1,574,690

11,053,236

–

–

10,964

137,665

9,627,175

1,574,690

11,201,865

(5,115,615)

(1,158,843)

(6,274,458)

The segment of “Others” primarily includes assets and liabilities of property investment and corporate level activities. 
Assets under the segment of “Others” consist primarily of investment property, investments at fair value through other 
comprehensive  income,  investments  at  amortised  cost  and  portfolio  investments  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss 
together with cash and bank balances that are managed at the corporate level. Liabilities under the segment of “Others” 
primarily  include  creditors  and  accruals  and  deferred  taxation  liabilities  related  to  investment  property  and  corporate 
level activities.

141141

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

(b) Segment information (Continued)

Geographical information

The Group’s two reportable operating segments operate in four main geographical areas, even though they are managed 
on  a  worldwide  basis.  Freight  revenues  from  container  transport  and  logistics  are  analysed  based  on  the  outbound 
cargoes of each geographical territory.

The Group’s total assets mainly include container vessels and containers which are primarily utilised across geographical 
markets  for  shipment  of  cargoes  throughout  the  world.  Accordingly,  non-current  assets  by  geographical  areas  are  not 
presented.

US$’000

Year ended 31st December 2020

Continuing operations

Asia

Europe

North America

Australia

Unallocated*

Year ended 31st December 2019

Continuing operations

Asia

Europe

North America

Australia

Unallocated*

Discontinued operation

North America

Additions to 

non-current 

assets#

57,293

2,372

1,511

50

440,700

501,926

77,244

2,335

10,427

142

279,878

370,026

17,166

387,192

Revenue

6,041,641

1,213,372

752,992

183,299

–

8,191,304

4,955,430

1,043,705

714,983

164,622

–

6,878,740

111,608

6,990,348

# 

Additions  to  non-current  assets  comprise  additions  to  property,  plant  and  equipment,  right-of-use  assets,  investment  property  and 

intangible assets.

* 

Unallocated additions to non-current assets comprises additions to container vessels and capitalised dry-docking costs, containers and 

computer software costs.

142

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

6.  OPERATING COSTS

US$’000

Cargo

Vessel and voyage

Bunker cost

Equipment and repositioning

Direct operating expenses from property that generated rental income

2020

3,754,943

1,332,368

712,878

785,225

6,585,414

16,707

2019

3,270,251

1,207,429

839,115

736,833

6,053,628

15,573

6,602,121

6,069,201

For the year ended 31st December 2020, cargo cost included an onerous provision (note 38) of US$348.5 million (2019: nil).

7.  OTHER OPERATING INCOME

US$’000

Dividend income from investments at fair value through other  

comprehensive income
Interest income from banks
Interest income from deposits in a fellow subsidiary
Interest income from investments at amortised cost 
Income from portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss

Interest income
Distribution
Dividend income
Government grants*
Others

2020

7,971
44,384
91
7,775

4,100
482
315
12,417
1,318

78,853

2019

7,903
51,064
–
9,683

11,487
1,084
661
1,550
247

83,679

*  These mainly represent grants relating to salaries, employment, and other subsidies under COVID-19.

143143

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

8.  OTHER (LOSSES)/GAINS, NET

US$’000

Fair value loss from an investment property

Fair value (loss)/gain on portfolio investments at fair value through  

profit or loss (realised and unrealised)

Gain on bunker price derivative contracts

Fair value gain on foreign exchange forward contracts

Gain on bargain purchase of subsidiaries

Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment

Loss on written-off of right-of-use assets

Loss on written-off of intangible assets

Loss on derecognition of lease liabilities

Exchange gain

9.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES

US$’000

Wages and salaries (including share-based compensation)

Pension and retirement benefits

Defined contribution plans (note 24)

Defined benefit plan (note 24)

Representing:

Continuing operations

Discontinued operation

2020

(30,492)

(5,642)

–

85

377

8,481

(106)

(5)

(1,195)

10,125

(18,372)

2020

566,105

29,703

1,331

597,139

597,139

–

597,139

2019

(703)

17,027

5,538

1,785

–

11,175

(146)

(3,356)

–

4,093

35,413

2019

589,079

31,479

1,105

621,663

516,565

105,098

621,663

Employee  benefit  expenses  of  US$106.5  million  (2019:  US$117.2  million)  are  included  in  “operating  costs”  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account.

144

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

10.  DIRECTORS’ AND MANAGEMENT’S EMOLUMENTS

(a)  Directors’ emoluments

The remuneration of each Director is set out below:

Name of Director
US$’000

For the year ended 31st December 2020

Mr. Xu Lirong
Mr. Huang Xiaowen*2
Mr. Wang Haimin*3
Mr. Yang Zhijian
Mr. Feng Boming
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Yan Jun
Ms. Wang Dan
Mr. Ip Sing Chi
Ms. Cui Hongqin
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip
Ms. Chen Ying
Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung

Salaries
and
benefits

Discretionary 
bonuses

Estimated
money value
of other
benefits *1

Employer’s
contribution
to provident
fund scheme

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
91
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

Fees

–
–
–
–
–
346
45
32
32
32
106
64
77
58
51

Total

–
–
–
–
–
437
45
32
32
32
106
64
77
58
51

145145

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

10.  DIRECTORS’ AND MANAGEMENT’S EMOLUMENTS (CONTINUED)

(a)  Directors’ emoluments (Continued)

Name of Director
US$’000

For the year ended 31st December 2019

Mr. Xu Lirong
Mr. Huang Xiaowen*5
Mr. Wang Haimin*3
Mr. Yang Zhijian*4
Mr. Feng Boming*4
Mr. Zhang Wei*5
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Yan Jun
Ms. Wang Dan
Mr. Ip Sing Chi
Ms. Cui Hongqin
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip
Ms. Chen Ying
Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung*6
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard*7

Salaries
and
benefits

Estimated
money value
of other
benefits *1

Employer’s
contribution
to provident
fund scheme

Special
bonus

–
–
–
–
–
–
627
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
40
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
66
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
67
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

Fees

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
45
32
32
32
106
64
73
64
36
25

Total

–
–
–
–
–
–
800
45
32
32
32
106
64
73
64
36
25

*1 
*2 
*3 
*4 
*5 
*6 
*7 

Other benefits include share-based compensation, car related expenses and club membership.

Appointed on 10th August 2020.

Resigned on 10th August 2020.

Appointed on 18th September 2019.

Resigned on 18th September 2019.

Appointed on 17th May 2019.

Resigned on 17th May 2019.

During  the  year,  no  emoluments  were  paid  by  the  Group  to  any  of  the  Directors  as  an  inducement  to  join  or  upon 
joining  the  Group  or  as  compensation  for  loss  of  office.  No  Directors  of  the  Company  waived  or  agreed  to  waive  any 
emoluments during the year.

146

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

10.  DIRECTORS’ AND MANAGEMENT’S EMOLUMENTS (CONTINUED)

(b)  Five highest paid individuals

The five individuals whose emoluments were the highest in the Group for the year do not include any Director (2019: 
included one Director) whose emoluments are reflected in the analysis presented above. The emoluments payable to the 
remaining five (2019: four) individuals are as follows:

US$’000

Basic salaries, housing allowances, other allowances and benefits in kind
Discretionary bonuses
Estimated money value of other benefits
Pension costs – defined contribution plans
Share-based compensation

The emoluments of the five individuals fell within the following bands:

Emolument bands (US$)

576,901 ~ 641,000
769,201 ~ 833,300
833,301 ~ 897,400
897,401 ~ 961,500
961,501 ~ 1,025,600
1,025,601 ~ 1,089,700
1,089,701 ~ 1,153,800
1,282,001 ~ 1,346,100

(HK$4,500,001 ~ HK$5,000,000)
(HK$6,000,001 ~ HK$6,500,000)
(HK$6,500,001 ~ HK$7,000,000)
(HK$7,000,001 ~ HK$7,500,000)
(HK$7,500,001 ~ HK$8,000,000)
(HK$8,000,001 ~ HK$8,500,000)
(HK$8,500,001 ~ HK$9,000,000)
(HK$10,000,001 ~ HK$10,500,000)

(c)  Key management compensation

US$’000

Salaries, discretionary bonuses and other employee benefits
Estimated money value of other benefits
Pension costs – defined contribution plans
Share-based compensation

2020

2,752
2,068
23
463
365

5,671

2019

2,172
629
21
250
180

3,252

Number of individuals

2020

2019

–
–
–
–
1
1
2
1

5

2020

7,512
28
663
585

8,788

1
1
2
1
–
–
–
–

5

2019

6,067
40
499
372

6,978

The  Group  usually  determines  and  pays  discretionary  bonuses  to  employees  (including  Directors)  around  April/May 
each  year  based  on  the  actual  financial  results  of  the  Group  for  the  preceding  year.  The  discretionary  bonuses  shown 
above  represent  actual  payments  to  the  Directors  and  individuals  during  the  current  financial  year  in  relation  to 
performance for the preceding year.

147147

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

11.  OPERATING PROFIT

US$’000

Operating profit is arrived at after crediting:  

Operating lease rental income

Land and buildings

and after charging:

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
Depreciation of right-of-use assets
Expenses relating to short-term leases and  

leases with low-value assets
Vessels and equipment
Terminals and berths
Land and buildings

Direct operating expenses from property  

that generated rental income
Amortisation of intangible assets
Auditors’ remuneration

Audit
Non-audit

2020

Continuing

operations

2019

Continuing 

Discontinued

operations

operation

27,103

26,766

235,090
195,599

321,153
–
3,737

16,707
21,497

2,791
1,436

213,488
195,767

226,548
545
6,293

15,573
20,081

2,671
1,863

–

–
–

–
3,404
5

–
–

–
32

Expenses  relating  to  short-term  leases  and  leases  with  low-value  assets  of  US$322.0  million  and  US$2.9  million  (2019: 
US$228.7  million  and  US$4.7  million)  respectively  are  included  in  “operating  costs”  and  “business  and  administrative 
expenses” in the consolidated profit and loss account.

12.  FINANCE COSTS

US$’000

Interest expense

Bank loans and bank overdrafts
Lease liabilities

Amount capitalised under assets under construction (note 17(b))

Net interest expense

2020

24,507
67,874

92,381
(1,069)

91,312

2019

58,434
93,165

151,599
–

151,599

The borrowing costs of the loans to finance the assets under construction (note 17) represented an average capitalisation rate 
of approximately 2.0% (2019: nil) per annum.

148

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13.  TAXATION

US$’000

Current taxation

PRC enterprise income tax
Hong Kong profits tax
Overseas taxation

Deferred taxation

PRC enterprise income tax
Hong Kong profits tax
Overseas taxation

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2020

7,815
(1,980)
13,208

19,043

(1,693)
(200)
(6,494)

(8,387)

10,656

2019

3,019
7,660
19,328

30,007

(352)
(32)
40,216

39,832

69,839

Taxation  has  been  provided  at  the  appropriate  tax  rates  prevailing  in  the  countries  in  which  the  Group  operates  on  the 
estimated  assessable  profits  for  the  year.  These  rates  range  from  5%  to  35%  (2019:  5%  to  46%)  and  the  rate  applicable  for 
Hong Kong profits tax is 16.5% (2019: 16.5%).

Taxation credit for Hong Kong profits tax represents the write-back of overprovision of taxation made in previous years.

The associated companies in the PRC enjoy preferential tax treatment.

The  tax  of  the  Group’s  profit  before  taxation  differs  from  the  theoretical  amount  that  would  arise  using  the  applicable  tax 
rates, being the weighted average of rates prevailing in the territories in which the Group operates, as follows:

US$’000

Profit before taxation
Share of profits of joint ventures
Share of profits of associated companies

Tax calculated at applicable tax rates
Income not subject to tax
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
Tax losses not recognised
Temporary differences not recognised
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses
Utilisation of previously unrecognised temporary differences
Withholding tax
Change in tax rates
Other items

2020

913,674
(3,290)
(9,509)

900,875

141,499
(401,438)
267,844 
2,875
3,176
(3,236)
(1,860)
4,630
(660)
(2,174)

10,656

2019

223,826
(4,116)
(10,028)

209,682

38,357
 (342,218)
326,929
1,876
1,791
(1,519) 
(544)
45,740
1,523
(2,096)

69,839

149149

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

14.  EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE

The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share is based on the Group’s profit attributable to equity holders 
of the Company divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.

The basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share are the same since there are no potential dilutive shares.

Number of ordinary shares in issue (thousands)

Group’s profit from continuing operations attributable  

to equity holders of the Company (US$’000)

Earnings per share from continuing operations attributable  

to equity holders of the Company (US cents)

Group’s profit from discontinued operation attributable  

to equity holders of the Company (US$’000)

Earnings per share from discontinued operation attributable  

to equity holders of the Company (US cents)

15.  DIVIDENDS

US$’000

Interim paid of US4.89 cents (2019: US6.66 cents) per ordinary share
Special paid of nil (2019: US160.0 cents) per ordinary share
Proposed final of US50.26 cents (2019: US2.69 cents) per ordinary share
Proposed special of US86.6 cents (2019: US24.0 cents) per ordinary share

2020

625,793

2019

625,793

902,723

153,987

144.3

24.6

–

–

2020

30,601
–
320,253
551,809

902,663

1,194,806

190.9

2019

41,678
1,001,269
16,834 
150,190

1,209,971

The Board of Directors proposes a final dividend in respect of 2020 of US50.26 cents (2019: US2.69 cents) per ordinary share. 
In addition, the Board of Directors proposes a special dividend of US86.6 cents (2019: US24.0 cents) per ordinary share. The 
proposed dividends will be accounted for as an appropriation of retained profit in the year ending 31st December 2021.

150

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

16.  DISCONTINUED OPERATION

On 29th April 2019, the Group entered into the Sale and Purchase Agreement with Olivia Holdings, LLC relating to the sale 
and  purchase  of  the  entire  interests  in  LBCT  LLC,  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary  of  the  Company  which  operates  LBCT,  for 
a  consideration  of  US$1,780.0  million  (subject  to  certain  post-completion  adjustments).  The  sale  was  completed  on  24th 
October 2019.

Analysis of the results and cash flows of the discontinued operation for the year ended 31st December 2019 is as follows:

(a)  Results

US$’000

Revenue
Operating costs

Gross profit
Other operating income
Business and administrative expenses
Reversal of impairment losses on financial assets

Operating profit
Finance costs

Profit after taxation
Profit on disposal of a subsidiary

Profit from discontinued operation

Note:

2019

111,608
(12,048)

99,560
1,198
(24,109)
179 

76,828
(35,656)

41,172
1,153,634

1,194,806

The Directors considered it was more appropriate to reflect only the revenue and the results arising from transactions with third parties under 

the discontinued operation. The inter-company profits were presented under continuing operations.

(b)  Cash flows

US$’000

Operating cash flows
Investing cash flows
Financing cash flows

Total cash flows

2019

138,719
1,751,412
(116,848)

1,773,283

151151

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

17.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

US$’000

Cost

At 1st January 2020
Currency translation adjustments
Additions
Acquisition of subsidiaries
Reclassification (note 18)
Disposals/written off

Container
vessels and
capitalised
dry-docking
costs

2,615,542
–
16,476
–
760,557
(10,524)

At 31st December 2020

3,382,051

189,297

2,609,938

82,194

Assets
under
construction

Containers
and
chassis

Terminal
equipment
and
improvement

Freehold
land and
buildings
outside
Hong Kong

Buildings
outside
Hong Kong

Leasehold
improvement
and
furni ture

Vehicles,
scrubbers and
other vessel
equipment,
computer
and other
equipment

–
–
189,297
–
–
–

2,507,879
6
172,259
–
–
(70,206)

82,194
–
–
–
–
–

976,085
–
114,355
373,059
(10,425)

1,453,074

–
–
–
–
–

–

1,108,160
27
84,521
–
(60,122)

58,762
–
5,085
–
–

1,132,586

63,847

46,473
3,138
–
–
–
–

66,500
2,471
7,598
2
–
(2,132)

175,541
2,034
51,748
31
–
(12,696)

Total

5,501,515
7,651
437,378
33
760,557
(95,558)

49,611

74,439

216,658

6,611,576

21,962
1,476
1,623
–
–

50,980
1,818
8,163
–
(2,116)

119,696
1,524
21,264
–
(12,516)

2,339,091
4,849
235,090
373,059
(85,179)

25,061

58,845

129,968

2,866,910

7,386
2
–
–
–
–

7,388

3,446
4
79
–
–

3,529

1,928,977

189,297

1,477,352

18,347

3,859

24,550

15,594

86,690

3,744,666

Assets
under
construction

Containers
and
chassis

Terminal
equipment
and
improvement

Freehold
land and
buildings
outside
Hong Kong

Buildings
outside
Hong Kong

Leasehold
improvement
and
furni ture

Vehicles,
scrubbers and
other vessel
equipment,
computer
and other
equipment

2,426,578
(2)
216,469
(74,737)
(60,429)

2,507,879

1,055,751
(4)
78,188
19,954
(45,729)

1,108,160

82,194
–
–
–
–

82,194

55,384
–
3,378
–
–

58,762

7,188
168
30
–
–

7,386

3,234
133
79
–
–

3,446

47,218
(745)
–
–
–

46,473

20,670
(323)
1,615
–
–

21,962

Total

5,311,938
(1,050)
284,142
14,469
(107,984)

57,157
(221)
11,648
–
(2,084)

148,664
(250)
34,443
–
(7,316)

66,500

175,541

5,501,515

46,716
(194)
6,481
–
(2,023)

108,035
(146)
18,841
–
(7,034)

2,138,027
(534)
213,488
56,422
(68,312)

50,980

119,696

2,339,091

1,399,719

23,432

3,940

24,511

15,520

55,845

3,162,424

Container
vessels and
capitalised
dry-docking
costs

2,518,403
–
21,552
89,206
(13,619)

2,615,542

848,237
–
104,906
36,468
(13,526)

976,085

1,639,457

24,536
–
–
–
(24,536)

–

–
–
–
–
–

–

–

Accumulated depreciation 
At 1st January 2020
Currency translation adjustments
Charge for the year
Reclassification (note 18)
Disposals/written off

At 31st December 2020

Net book amount

At 31st December 2020

US$’000

Cost

At 1st January 2019
Currency translation adjustments
Additions
Reclassification (note 18)
Disposals/written off

At 31st December 2019

Accumulated depreciation 
At 1st January 2019
Currency translation adjustments
Charge for the year
Reclassification (note 18)
Disposals/written off

At 31st December 2019

Net book amount

At 31st December 2019

152

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

17.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)

(a)  The  aggregate  net  book  amount  of  assets  pledged  as  security  for  bank  loans  amounts  to  US$1,651.2  million  (2019: 
US$2,100.7  million).  Specific  charges  on  vessels  of  the  Group  include  legal  mortgages  and  assignments  of  insurance 
claims and charter hire income relating to these vessels.

(b)  Interest costs of US$1.1 million (2019: nil) during the year were capitalised as part of assets under construction.

(c)  Depreciation charge of US$212.1 million (2019: US$190.2 million) for the year has been expensed in “operating costs” 

and US$23.0 million (2019: US$23.3 million) in “business and administrative expenses”.

(d)  As at 31st December 2020 and 2019, the buildings outside Hong Kong are held under medium-term leasehold land.

(e) 

Included in the container vessels and capitalised dry-docking costs, the net book value of capitalised dry-docking costs 
amounts to US$48.9 million (2019: US$46.8 million).

18.  RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS

Container
vessels and
capitalised
dry-docking
costs

Containers

Terminal
leases

Land and
buildings

Vehicles,
furniture
and other
equipment

3,365,220

225,575

22,646

166,807

US$’000
Cost

At 1st January 2020
Currency translation 

adjustments

Additions
Acquisition of subsidiaries
Reclassification (note 17)
Disposals/written off
Lease modification

–
18,290
–
(760,557)
(2,678)
–

–
–
–
–
(175)
–

–
–
–
–
–
396

At 31st December 2020

2,620,275

225,400

23,042

Accumulated depreciation
At 1st January 2020
Currency translation 

adjustments

Charge for the year
Reclassification (note 17)
Disposals/written off

At 31st December 2020

Net book amount

875,196

–
143,132
(373,059)
(2,600)

642,669

37,303

–
10,108
–
(42)

47,369

3,938

–
4,022
–
–

7,960

4,930
35,752
487
–
(19,205)
(2,617)

186,154

34,097

1,566
37,838
–
(18,814)

54,687

Total

3,781,654

4,997
54,590
515
(760,557)
(22,262)
(2,214)

3,056,723

950,980

1,598
195,599
(373,059)
(21,660)

753,458

1,406

67
548
28
–
(204)
7

1,852

446

32
499
–
(204)

773

At 31st December 2020

1,977,606

178,031

15,082

131,467

1,079

2,303,265

153153

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

18.  RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONTINUED)

Container
vessels and
capitalised
dry-docking
costs

Containers

Terminal
leases

Land and
buildings

3,463,087

151,008

22,064

111,726

–
3,038
(89,206)
(11,699)

–
–
74,737
(170)

–
582
–
–

(1,380)
59,224
–
(2,763)

Vehicles,
furniture
and other
equipment

913

(13)
506
–
–

Total

3,748,798

(1,393)
63,350
(14,469)
(14,632)

US$’000
Cost

At 1st January 2019
Currency translation 

adjustments

Additions
Reclassification (note 17)
Disposals/written off

At 31st December 2019

3,365,220

225,575

22,646

166,807

1,406

3,781,654

Accumulated depreciation
At 1st January 2019
Currency translation 

adjustments

Charge for the year
Reclassification (note 17)
Disposals/written off

At 31st December 2019

Net book amount

771,074

50,571

–
152,121
(36,468)
(11,531)

875,196

–
6,750
(19,954)
(64)

37,303

–

–
3,938
–
–

3,938

2,659

(396)
32,511
–
(677)

34,097

At 31st December 2019

2,490,024

188,272

18,708

132,710

19.  INVESTMENT PROPERTY

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Additions

Fair value loss

Balance at end of year

Background

–

(1)
447
–
–

446

960

824,304

(397)
195,767
(56,422)
(12,272)

950,980

2,830,674

2019

310,000 
703

310,703
(703)

310,000

2020

310,000
492

310,492
(30,492)

280,000

The  investment  property,  “Wall  Street  Plaza”,  is  a  commercial  property  located  at  88,  Pine  Street,  New  York,  USA.  The 
property is situated on three parcels of freehold land, all of which are wholly owned by the Group.

Valuation processes of the Group

The  Group’s  investment  property  was  valued  at  31st  December  2020  and  2019  by  an  independent  professionally  qualified 
valuer  who  holds  a  recognised  relevant  professional  qualification.  The  Group’s  finance  department  reviews  the  valuation 
performed  by  the  independent  valuer  for  financial  reporting  purposes.  This  team  reports  directly  to  the  Chief  Financial 
Officer (“CFO”). Discussions of valuation processes and results are held between the CFO, the finance team and the valuer. 
As at 31st December 2020 and 2019, the fair value of the property has been determined by Cushman & Wakefield, Inc..

154

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

19.  INVESTMENT PROPERTY (CONTINUED)

Valuation techniques

Fair  value  of  the  investment  property  is  derived  by  using  the  discounted  cash  flow  method  with  significant  unobservable 
inputs  (level  3).  The  net  present  value  of  the  income  stream  is  estimated  by  applying  an  appropriate  discount  rate  which 
reflects the risk profile.

There were no changes to the valuation techniques during the year.

Information about fair value measurement using significant unobservable inputs

Discount  rate  is  estimated  by  Cushman  &  Wakefield,  Inc.  based  on  the  risk  profile  of  the  property  being  valued.  If  the 
discount rate is higher, the fair value would be lower. At 31st December 2020, discount rate of 7.3% per annum (2019: 7.0% 
per annum) is used in the valuation.

Net operating income growth rates of 0% per annum (2019: 3% per annum) for the first and second years and 3% per annum 
(2019: 3% per annum) for the remaining years are used in the valuation. If the growth rate is higher, the fair value would be 
higher.

Prevailing market rents are estimated based on recent lettings of US$49 per sq ft to US$53 per sq ft (2019: US$52 per sq ft to 
US$56 per sq ft), within the subject property. If the rents are higher, the fair value would be higher.

20.  INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES

US$’000

Share of net assets

The Group’s share of assets, liabilities and results of the joint ventures are summarised below:

US$’000

Non-current assets
Current assets
Current liabilities

Share of net assets

Income
Expenses

Share of profits of joint ventures

Share of total comprehensive income of joint ventures

Particulars of the joint ventures at 31st December 2020 are shown on page 195.

2020

9,848

2020

1,790
11,532
(3,474)

9,848

12,021
(8,731)

3,290

3,785

2019

10,163

2019

1,138
11,921
(2,896)

10,163

16,923
(12,807)

4,116

4,101

155155

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

21.  INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES

US$’000

Share of net assets
Goodwill

Carrying amount

2020

141,999
2,988

144,987

The Group’s share of assets, liabilities and results of the associated companies are summarised as follows:

US$’000

Non-current assets
Current assets
Non-current liabilities
Current liabilities

Share of net assets

Income
Expenses

Share of profits of associated companies

Share of total comprehensive income of associated companies

Particulars of the associated companies at 31st December 2020 are shown on page 195.

2020

125,904
31,742
(98)
(15,549)

141,999

80,408
(70,899)

9,509

18,371

2019

137,665
–

137,665

2019

123,095
17,395
(107)
(2,718)

137,665

39,424
(29,396)

10,028

7,962

156

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22.  INTANGIBLE ASSETS

US$’000

At 1st January 2019 

Cost
Accumulated amortisation

Net book amount

Year ended 31st December 2019 
Opening net book amount
Currency translation adjustments
Additions
Disposals/written off
Amortisation

Closing net book amount

At 31st December 2019

Cost
Accumulated amortisation

Net book amount

Year ended 31st December 2020
Opening net book amount
Currency translation adjustments
Additions
Disposals/written off
Amortisation

Closing net book amount

At 31st December 2020

Cost
Accumulated amortisation

Net book amount

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Computer 
software costs

146,452
(114,024)

32,428

32,428
2
21,831
(3,356)
(20,081)

30,824

160,479
(129,655)

30,824

30,824
68
9,466
(5)
(21,497)

18,856

170,049
(151,193)

18,856

Amortisation  of  US$21.5  million  (2019:  US$20.1  million)  is  included  in  “business  and  administrative  expenses”  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account.

157157

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
  
  
  
  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

23.  DEFERRED TAXATION ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets
Deferred taxation liabilities

2020

6,255
(143,121)

(136,866)

2019

5,083
(150,479)

(145,396)

Deferred  taxation  assets  and  liabilities  are  offset  when  there  is  a  legal  right  to  set  off  current  taxation  assets  with  current 
taxation  liabilities  and  when  the  deferred  taxation  relates  to  the  same  taxation  authority.  The  above  assets/(liabilities) 
shown in the consolidated balance sheet are determined after appropriate offsetting of the relevant amounts and include the 
following:

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets to be recovered after more than twelve months

2020

3,619

2019

3,892

Deferred taxation liabilities to be settled after more than twelve months

(143,000)

(150,478)

Deferred  taxation  is  calculated  in  full  on  temporary  differences  under  the  liability  method  using  applicable  tax  rates 
prevailing in the countries in which the Group operates. The movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities (prior to 
offsetting of balances within the same taxation jurisdiction) during the year were as follows:

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets
At 1st January 2019
Currency translation adjustments
(Charged)/credited to consolidated profit  

and loss account

At 31st December 2019
Currency translation adjustments
Credited/(charged) to consolidated profit  

and loss account

At 31st December 2020

Accelerated 
accounting 
depreciation

Tax losses

Others

518
13

127

658
30

696

1,384

4,661
(9)

(2,585)

2,067
(9)

(413)

1,645

3,367
26

119

3,512
167

215

3,894

Total

8,546
30

(2,339)

6,237
188

498

6,923

158

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

23.  DEFERRED TAXATION ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)

US$’000

Deferred taxation liabilities
At 1st January 2019
Currency translation adjustments
Charged/(credited) to consolidated 

profit and loss account

At 31st December 2019
Currency translation adjustments
Acquisition of subsidiaries
(Credited)/charged to consolidated 

profit and loss account

Accelerated
tax
depreciation

Revaluation
of investment
property

Undistributed
profits of
subsidiaries
and affiliates

1,766
(2)

(13)

1,751
(28)
–

87,635
–

(500)

87,135
–
–

(60)

(10,470)

16,387
–

45,148

61,535
–
–

1,972

63,507

Others

Total

8,352
2

114,140
–

(7,142)

37,493

1,212
–
73

669

1,954

151,633
(28)
73

(7,889)

143,789

At 31st December 2020

1,663

76,665

Deferred  taxation  assets  of  US$29.6  million  (2019:  US$34.0  million)  arising  from  unused  tax  losses  of  US$153.4  million 
(2019: US$176.6 million) have not been recognised in the consolidated financial statements. Unused tax losses of US$120.7 
million  (2019:  US$122.0  million)  have  no  expiry  date  and  the  remaining  balance  will  expire  at  various  dates  up  to  and 
including 2040.

Except for the deferred taxation liabilities of US$62.5 million (2019: US$60.0 million) recognised as at 31st December 2020 
for current intention to remit retained profit of subsidiaries of US$220.9 million (2019: US$200.0 million), deferred taxation 
liabilities  of  US$42.2  million  (2019:  US$33.2  million)  on  temporary  differences  associated  with  investments  in  subsidiaries 
of  US$249.4  million  (2019:  US$195.6  million)  have  not  been  recognised  as  there  is  no  current  intention  of  remitting  the 
retained profit of these subsidiaries to the holding companies in the foreseeable future.

24.  PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS

The  Group  operates  a  number  of  defined  benefit  and  defined  contribution  pension  and  retirement  schemes  in  the  main 
countries  in  which  the  Group  operates.  The  total  charges  to  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  for  the  year  were 
US$31.0 million (2019: US$32.6 million).

Defined contribution schemes

The principal defined contribution schemes are operated in the PRC and the USA. These schemes cover approximately 82% 
of the Group’s employees. Contributions to the defined contribution schemes, all the assets of which are held in trust funds 
separate  from  the  Group,  are  based  on  a  percentage  of  an  employee’s  salary,  depending  upon  the  length  of  service  of  the 
employee,  but  the  Group’s  contributions  to  certain  schemes  may  be  reduced  by  contributions  forfeited  by  those  employees 
who leave the schemes prior to vesting fully in those contributions.

In  2008,  the  Group  terminated  the  defined  benefit  scheme  and  post-retirement  medical  plans  in  the  USA  at  the  request  of 
the labour unions. All the pension assets and obligations were transferred to a defined benefit multi-employer pension plan 
and a defined benefit multi-employer post-retirement medical plan (the “Plans”) together with other industry players. Since 
the Group is not able to identify its share of the underlying financial position and performance of the Plans with sufficient 
reliability for accounting purposes, accordingly the Plans are accounted for by the Group as defined contribution plans.

159159

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

24.  PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

Defined contribution schemes (Continued)

The charges for the defined contribution schemes to the consolidated profit and loss account during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Contributions to the schemes
Forfeitures utilised

Defined benefit scheme

The amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are as follows:

US$’000

Net scheme liabilities

Net funded scheme liabilities

2020

29,817
(114)

29,703

2019

31,594
(115)

31,479

2020

(15,447)

2019

(11,494)

The defined benefit scheme is operated in the United Kingdom which was valued by Barnett Waddingham LLP. The defined 
benefit scheme (the “Scheme”) covers less than 1% of the Group’s employees and is funded. The assets of the Scheme are held 
in trust funds separate from the Group. Contributions to the Scheme are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified 
actuaries in compliance with local practice and regulations. The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the projected benefit 
obligations  of  the  Group’s  pension  schemes  vary  according  to  the  economic  conditions  of  the  countries  in  which  they  are 
situated.

The net scheme liabilities of the Scheme recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are determined as follows:

US$’000

Fair value of plan assets
Present value of funded obligations

Deficit of funded plan

2020

225,825
(241,272)

(15,447)

2019

209,708
(221,202)

(11,494)

160

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

24.  PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

Defined benefit scheme (Continued)

Net funded scheme liabilities (Continued)

Movements in the fair value of the plan assets of the Scheme during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Interest income on plan assets
Remeasurement gain on assets
Contributions from the Group
Contributions from the plan members
Benefits paid

Balance at end of year

Movements in the present value of obligations of the Scheme during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Current service cost
Interest expense
Experience (gains)/losses on liabilities
Losses from changes to demographic assumptions
Losses from changes to financial assumptions
Contributions from the plan members
Benefits paid

Balance at end of year

2020

209,708
8,367
3,808
14,384
4,683
119
(15,244)

225,825

2020

221,202
8,895
1,148
3,991
(1,308)
305
22,164
119
(15,244)

241,272

The charges of the Scheme recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account are as follows:

US$’000

Current service cost
Interest expense
Interest income on plan assets

Net expense recognised for the year

2020

1,148
3,991
(3,808)

1,331

2019

190,210
7,295
5,233
16,959
3,050
136
(13,175)

209,708

2019

193,410
7,450
1,042
5,296
2,441
7,269
17,333
136
(13,175)

221,202

2019

1,042
5,296
(5,233)

1,105

Charges  of  US$1.3  million  (2019:  US$1.1  million)  were  included  in  “business  and  administrative  expenses”  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account.

161161

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

24.  PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

Defined benefit scheme (Continued)

Net funded scheme liabilities (Continued)

The main actuarial assumptions made for the Scheme were as follows:

US$’000

Discount rate
Inflation rate
Expected future salary increases
Expected future pension increases

2020

1.2%
3.2%
2.3%
2.4%

2019

1.9%
3.3%
2.3%
2.4%

Actual return on plan assets (US$’000)

18,192

22,192

At 31st December 2020, if discount rate had been 0.2% higher/lower, with all other variables held constant, the fair value of 
the funded obligations would have been US$6.9 million lower/US$7.2 million higher. At 31st December 2020, if inflation rate 
had been 0.2% higher/lower, with all other variables held constant, the fair value of the funded obligations would have been 
US$3.2  million  higher/US$4.1  million  lower.  The  sensitivities  show  the  likely  effect  of  a  single  assumption  being  adjusted 
while holding all other assumptions constant.

Plan assets of the Scheme comprise the following:

US$’000

Equity
Debt
Others

2020

2019

70,706
134,479
20,640

225,825

31%
60%
9%

100%

67,420
131,689
10,599

209,708

32%
63%
5%

100%

Expected  normal  and  deficit  reduction  contributions  to  the  Scheme  for  the  year  ending  31st  December  2021  is  US$4.7 
million.

Through its defined benefit pension plan, the Group is exposed to a number of risks as follows:

• 

• 

• 

Investment risk. The Scheme holds investments in asset classes, such as equities, which have volatile market values and 
while these assets are expected to provide real returns over the long-term, the short-term volatility can cause additional 
funding to be required if deficit emerges.

Interest rate and market risk. The Scheme’s liabilities are assessed using market yields on high quality corporate bonds 
to  discount  the  liabilities.  As  the  Scheme  holds  assets  such  as  equities,  the  value  of  the  assets  and  liabilities  may  not 
move in the same way.

Inflation risk. A significant proportion of the benefits under the Scheme are linked to inflation. Although the Scheme’s 
assets are expected to provide a good hedge against inflation over the long term, movements over the short– term could 
lead to deficits emerging.

• 

Longevity and other demographic risk. If members live longer than assumed, a deficit will emerge in the Scheme.

162

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

25.  RESTRICTED BANK BALANCES

US$’000

Non-current
Current

2020

321
1,925

2,246

2019

56,795
3,499

60,294

As  at  31st  December  2020,  the  restricted  bank  balances  of  US$2.2  million  (2019:  US$60.3  million)  are  funds  pledged  or 
required to be utilised for specific purposes.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s restricted bank balances are mainly denominated in US dollar (2019: US dollar).

The credit quality of restricted bank balances by reference to Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

AA
A
BBB

2020

1,781
458
7

2,246

26.  INVESTMENTS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Disposals
Change in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income

Balance at end of year

Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income include the following:

US$’000

Unlisted equity securities

2020

15,694
1
–
(7,800)

7,895

2020

7,895

2019

1,669
58,624
1

60,294

2019

24,422
5
(808)
(7,925)

15,694

2019

15,694

163163

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

26.  INVESTMENTS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 

(CONTINUED)
The carrying amounts of the Group’s investments at fair value through other comprehensive income are denominated in the 
following currencies:

US$’000

Renminbi
Other currencies

27.  INVESTMENTS AT AMORTISED COST

US$’000

Listed debt securities

Hong Kong
Overseas

Less: Current portion included in current assets

Market value

Movements in investments at amortised cost are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Redemptions on maturity
Amortisation
Reversal of impairment

Balance at end of year

2020

7,860
35

7,895

2019

15,660
34

15,694

2020

2019

42,497
104,915

147,412
(34,117)

113,295

157,911

2020

191,306
(43,890)
(4)
–

147,412

86,361
104,945

191,306
(43,886)

147,420

199,305

2019

222,959
(33,842)
(71)
2,260

191,306

The carrying amounts of investments at amortised cost are denominated in US dollar (2019: US dollar).

164

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

27.  INVESTMENTS AT AMORTISED COST (CONTINUED)

The  credit  quality  of  investments  at  amortised  cost  by  reference  to  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s  credit  ratings  is  as 
follows:

US$’000

AA

A

BBB

Non-ranking

2020

799

64,334

82,279

–

147,412

The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance amount of investments at amortised cost.

28.  OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS

US$’000

Deposit for container purchase

Deposit for container purchase with a fellow subsidiary

Deposit for vessel equipment

Others

29.  INVENTORIES

US$’000

Bunker

Consumable stores

2020

–

–

7,371

13,973

21,344

2020

83,278

11,500

94,778

2019

799

75,227

107,278

8,002

191,306

2019

6,521

18,997

951

22,902

49,371

2019

103,543

9,942

113,485

165165

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

30.  DEBTORS AND PREPAYMENTS

US$’000

Trade receivables 
Third parties
Joint ventures
Fellow subsidiaries
Related companies

Less: Provision for impairment

Trade receivables – net
Other debtors
Other prepayments
Utility and other deposits 
Amounts due from related parties

Joint ventures
Fellow subsidiaries
Related companies

2020

2019

446,246
205
6,598
5,875
(47,566)

411,358
105,972
132,150
17,518

–
13,578
550

681,126

396,007
680
476
–
(34,837)

362,326
134,034
146,037
14,881

121
9,460
1,409

668,268

The  credit  quality  of  trade  receivables  net  of  provision  for  impairment,  by  reference  to  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s 
credit ratings (if available) or to historical information about counterparty default rates is as follows:

US$’000

Counterparties with external credit rating
A
BBB
BB

Counterparties without external credit rating 
Group 1
Group 2
Group 3

Notes:

Group 1 – new customers (less than 6 months).

Group 2 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with no defaults in the past.

Group 3 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with some defaults in the past.

2020

17,875
10,317
6,270

34,462

26,629
346,272
3,995

376,896

411,358

2019

24,427
7,317
4,785

36,529

25,991
295,935
3,871

325,797

362,326

166

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

30.  DEBTORS AND PREPAYMENTS (CONTINUED)

Trade  receivables  are  normally  due  for  payment  on  presentation  of  invoices  or  granted  with  an  approved  credit  period 
ranging mainly from 10 to 30 days. Debtors with overdue balances are requested to settle all outstanding balances before any 
further credit is granted.

The ageing analysis of the Group’s trade receivables, net of provision for impairment, prepared in accordance with the dates 
of invoices, is as follows:

US$’000

Below 1 month
2 to 3 months
4 to 6 months
Over 6 months

2020

319,114
84,194
6,680
1,370

411,358

2019

273,727
76,003
8,258
4,338

362,326

There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a large number of internationally 
dispersed customers. Other debtors are fully performing.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Canadian dollar
Euro
Japanese yen
Hong Kong dollar
Renminbi
Pound sterling
Australian dollar
Other currencies

Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Provision
Written off
Reversal

Balance at end of year

2020

84,580
14,930
74,501
16,213
15,161
89,145
11,177
33,181
72,470

411,358

2020

34,837
(165)
19,200
(1,779)
(4,527)

47,566

2019

105,477
10,523
64,027
26,230
9,071
43,912
11,049
25,890
66,147

362,326

2019

29,525
–
11,869
(1,721)
(4,836)

34,837

To  measure  the  expected  credit  losses  which  are  included  in  the  balance  of  provision  for  impairment  of  trade  receivables, 
trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and due dates of invoices.

The  expected  loss  rates  are  based  on  the  payment  profiles  over  a  period  of  36  months  before  31st  December  2020  or  31st 
December  2019  respectively  and  the  corresponding  historical  credit  losses  experienced  within  the  year.  The  historical  loss 
rates are adjusted to reflect current and forward-looking information on macroeconomic factors affecting the ability of the 
customers to settle the receivables.

167167

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

31.  PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS

US$’000

Listed equity securities

Hong Kong
Overseas

Market value of listed equity securities
Listed debt securities

Hong Kong
Overseas

2020

18,091
2,065

20,156

61,612
18,792

2019

29,627
8,046

37,673

73,970
41,280

100,560

152,923

The carrying amounts of the Group’s portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss are mainly denominated in US 
dollar (2019: US dollar).

The credit quality of listed debt securities by reference to Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

A
BBB
BB
Non-ranking

2020

18,697
34,071
7,009
20,627

80,404

2019

29,090
51,347
6,970
27,843

115,250

The fair values of all listed equity securities and debt securities are based on their current bid prices in active markets.

32.  CASH AND BANK BALANCES

US$’000

Short-term bank deposits

Maturing within three months from the date of placement

Deposits placed with a fellow subsidiary*
Cash at bank and in hand

Short-term bank deposits

Maturing more than three months from the date of placement

2020

2019

783,839
58,960
555,310

1,398,109

1,674,686

3,072,795

1,947,092
–
325,478

2,272,570

1,183,000

3,455,570

* 

The deposits placed with a fellow subsidiary, a finance company, bear interest at prevailing market rates.

168

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

32.  CASH AND BANK BALANCES (CONTINUED)

The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash and bank balances are mainly denominated in US dollar (2019: US dollar).

The credit quality of cash at bank and in hand and short-term bank deposits by reference to Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and/
or Fitch’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

AA
A
BBB
BB
B
Others

33.  SHARE CAPITAL

US$’000

Authorised:

900,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.10 each
65,000,000 convertible redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each
50,000,000 redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each

Issued and fully paid:

At 31st December 2019 and 2020

2020

141,548
1,179,826
1,679,508
464
4,446
67,003

3,072,795

2019

180,244
1,170,805
2,082,708
540
5,583
15,690

3,455,570

2020

2019

90,000
65,000
50,000

205,000

90,000
65,000
50,000

205,000

Number of shares 
(thousands)

Ordinary shares 
US$’000

625,793

62,579

169169

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

34.  RESERVES

US$’000

At 1st January 2019
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
Transactions with owners

Employee share-based compensation
2018 final dividend
2019 interim dividend
2019 first special dividend

Share
premium

172,457
–

–
–
–
–

At 31st December 2019

172,457

Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
Transactions with owners

Employee share-based compensation
2019 final dividend
2019 second special dividend
2020 interim dividend

–

–
–
–
–

At 31st December 2020

172,457

Employee
share-based
compensation
reserve

–
–

2,651
–
–
–

2,651

–

4,776
–
–
–

7,427

Contributed
surplus

88,547
–

Capital
redemption
reserve

Investments
revaluation
reserve

4,696
–

22,413
(7,925)

–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–

88,547

4,696

–

–
–
–
–

–

–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–

14,488

(7,800)

–
–
–
–

Foreign
exchange
translation
reserve

26,701
(3,724)

–
–
–
–

Retained
profit

4,311,431
1,338,709

–
(48,181)
(41,678)
(1,001,269)

Total

4,626,245
1,327,060

2,651
(48,181)
(41,678)
(1,001,269)

22,977

4,559,012

4,864,828

19,410

895,946

907,556

–
–
–
–

–
(16,834)
(150,190)
(30,601)

4,776
(16,834)
(150,190)
(30,601)

88,547

4,696

6,688

42,387

5,257,333

5,579,535

170

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

35.  SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS

An  intermediate  holding  company  of  the  Group,  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  operates  share  option  schemes  whereby 
options  are  granted  to  eligible  employees  of  the  Group  to  subscribe  for  its  shares.  No  outstanding  options  were  vested  and 
exercisable as at 31st December 2020. COSCO SHIPPING Holdings has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or 
settle the options in cash.

At a special general meeting of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings held on 30th May 2019, the shareholders of COSCO SHIPPING 
Holdings approved the adoption of a share option scheme (the “2019 Share Option Scheme”). No consideration was paid by 
the grantees for the acceptance of share options.

At a special general meeting of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings held on 29th May 2020, the shareholders of COSCO SHIPPING 
Holdings approved the adoption of a share option scheme (the “2020 Share Option Scheme”). No consideration was paid by 
the grantees for the acceptance of share options.

Under the 2019 Share Option Scheme and 2020 Share Option Scheme, the exercises of the options of three batches are subject 
to two-year, three-year and four-year vesting periods respectively during which a participant is not allowed to exercise any 
option granted. After the expiration of each vesting period, the participant may exercise the options in three batches in the 
one year, one year and three years after the expiration of each vesting period respectively. Within the exercise period of the 
share options, and subject to the fulfilment of the vesting conditions and the exercise arrangement of the share options, grant 
of  each  share  option  entitles  the  grantee  to  subscribe  for  one  A  share  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  at  relevant  exercise 
price in three batches evenly after the expiry of each vesting period.

Movements  of  the  share  options  granted  by  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  to  the  employees  of  the  Group  during  the  year 
ended 31st December 2020 and 2019 are set out below:

Date of grant

3rd June 2019
29th May 2020

Exercisable 
period

Note i
Note ii

Exercise price

RMB4.10
RMB3.50

Date of grant

3rd June 2019

Exercisable 
period

Note i

Exercise 
price

RMB4.10

Year ended 31st December 2020
Number of share options

Outstanding 
as at 
1st January 
2020

44,331,000
–

Granted 
during 
the period

–
4,195,200

Transferred 
from a fellow 
subsidiary

Outstanding 
as at 
31st December
2020

754,000
–

45,085,000
4,195,200

44,331,000

4,195,200

754,000

49,280,200

Year ended 31st December 2019
Number of share options

Outstanding
as at 1st
January
2019

Granted
during 
the period

Transferred 
from a fellow 
subsidiary

Outstanding
as at 31st
December
2019

–

44,331,000

–

44,331,000

171171

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

35.  SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (CONTINUED)

Notes:

(i) 

The  share  options  were  granted  on  3rd  June  2019  under  the  2019  Share  Option  Scheme  at  an  exercise  price  of  RMB4.10.  According  to  the 

provisions  of  the  2019  Share  Option  Scheme,  share  options  under  each  grant  have  a  validity  period  of  ten  years  from  30th  May  2019  and 
cannot be exercised evenly during the two-year, three-year and four-year period commencing from the date of grant (the “Restriction Period”). 
Besides, subject to the fulfilment of the relevant vesting conditions, share options will be exercised in three batches evenly over a period of one 

year, one year and three years after the expiry of each Restriction Period, i.e. 33%, 33% and 34%.

(ii)  The  share  options  were  granted  on  29th  May  2020  under  the  2020  Share  Option  Scheme  at  an  exercise  price  of  RMB3.50.  According  to  the 

provisions  of  the  2020  Share  Option  Scheme,  share  options  under  each  grant  have  a  validity  period  of  ten  years  from  29th  May  2020  and 

cannot  be  exercised  evenly  during  the  Restriction  Period.  Besides,  subject  to  the  fulfilment  of  the  relevant  vesting  conditions,  share  options 

will be exercised in three batches evenly over a period of one year, one year and three years after the expiry of each Restriction Period, i.e. 33%, 

33% and 34%.

36.  BORROWINGS

US$’000

Non-current
Bank loans
Secured
Unsecured

Current
Bank loans
Secured
Unsecured

2020

2019

648,346
171,979

820,325

173,948
39,322

213,270

921,503
111,638

1,033,141

355,525
39,471

394,996

Total borrowings

1,033,595

1,428,137

The maturity of borrowings is as follows:

US$’000

As at 31st December 2020

2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026 onwards

172

Bank loans

213,270
224,405
251,333
70,789
74,401
199,397

1,033,595

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

36.  BORROWINGS (CONTINUED)

US$’000

As at 31st December 2019

2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025 onwards

Bank loans

394,996
227,599
240,735
167,550
86,969
310,288

1,428,137

Borrowings are secured by property, plant and equipment of the Group (note 17(a)).

The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date are as follows:

Bank loans

2020

1.3%

2019

2.9%

The carrying amounts of non-current and current borrowings approximate their fair values.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in US dollar (2019: US dollar).

The fixed interest rate borrowings of the Group as at 31st December 2020 amounted to US$nil (2019: US$18.5 million). The 
remaining borrowings of US$1,033.6 million (2019: US$1,409.6 million) were subject to floating interest rates.

37.  LEASE LIABILITIES

US$’000

Non-current
Current

2020

1,669,163
367,085

2,036,248

2019

2,309,083
253,869

2,562,952

173173

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

37.  LEASE LIABILITIES (CONTINUED)
The maturity of lease liabilities is as follows:

US$’000

As at 31st December 2020

2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026 onwards

As at 31st December 2019

2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025 onwards

38.  PROVISION

Present
value

367,085
260,665
336,879
243,409
306,332
521,878

Minimum
payments

396,632
284,735
354,175
256,144
315,661
535,752

2,036,248

2,143,099

253,869
527,785
260,232
344,150
275,066
901,850

320,380
583,607
304,477
377,247
300,018
943,577

2,562,952

2,829,306

The Group entered into the TSA in October 2019 to which the Group committed to place, or procure the placement of an 
annual minimum number of vessel lifts in LBCT for 20 years. Failure to meet the committed volume for each contract year 
would require certain level of deficiency payment as stipulated in the TSA.

As  at  31st  December  2020,  the  Group  reassessed  the  expected  number  of  vessel  lifts  in  LBCT  for  each  of  the  remaining 
contract  years  with  reference  to  future  prospects  of  the  market  and  its  expected  load  factor.  Considering  the  prolonged 
COVID-19 pandemic in the USA and the uncertain vaccine efficacy, recovery of the USA economy has been affected and was 
expected to be continuously affected for the foreseeable future. It was expected that a slower economy growth would affect 
the demand/import of the USA for some time as it shall take years to recover from various pandemic impact. In addition, the 
pandemic also changed the cargo inflow to the USA by other means. As at 31st December 2020, with these uncertainties over 
such  long-term  period,  management  reassessed  that  the  projected  vessel  lifts  in  LBCT  would  grow  at  a  smaller  and  slower 
extent  compared  with  prior  year’s  assessment  and  thus  led  to  a  shortfall  on  MVC  over  the  remaining  contract  period.  The 
Group  estimated  an  onerous  contract  provision  of  US$348.5  million  (2019:  nil).  Refer  to  note  4(d)  for  more  details  of  the 
calculation methodology adopted and assumptions used by management in estimating the onerous provision.

174

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

39.  CREDITORS AND ACCRUALS

US$’000

Trade payables 

Third parties

Joint ventures

Fellow subsidiaries

Related companies

Other creditors
Accrued expenses
Contract liabilities and deferred revenue* 
Amounts due to related parties

Joint ventures
Fellow subsidiaries
Related companies

2020

2019

213,626

3,467

92,410

9,724

319,227
144,343
894,288
14,253

651
13,489
1,460

202,306

4,175

19,223

13,979

239,683
168,643
612,662
50,966

651
–
–

1,387,711

1,072,605

* 

As permitted by HKFRS 15, the transaction price for contracts with an original expected duration of one year or less is exempt from disclosure 

due to practical expedient.

The ageing analysis of the Group’s trade payables, prepared in accordance with the dates of invoices, is as follows:

US$’000

Below 1 month
2 to 3 months
4 to 6 months
Over 6 months

2020

257,905
55,148
2,726
3,448

319,227

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade payables are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Canadian dollar
Euro
Japanese yen
Hong Kong dollar
Renminbi
Other currencies

2020

174,959
9,854
21,089
19,131
16,231
34,001
43,962

319,227

2019

180,956
49,498
2,707
6,522

239,683

2019

106,554
9,265
22,048
20,480
16,178
24,716
40,442

239,683

40.  COMMITMENTS

(a)  Capital commitments – Property, plant and equipment

US$’000

Contracted but not provided for

2020

1,701,811

2019

1,699

175175

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

40.  COMMITMENTS (CONTINUED)

(b)  Capital commitments – Investment in an associated company

US$’000

Contracted but not provided for

(c)  Lease commitments

2020

4,139

2019

4,937

The future aggregate minimum lease rental expenses under non-cancellable short-term leases and low-value leases are 
payable in the following years:

US$’000

At 31st December 2020

Less than 1 year
Between 1 and 2 years
Between 2 and 5 years
Over 5 years

At 31st December 2019 

Less than 1 year
Between 1 and 2 years
Between 2 and 5 years

Vessels and 

equipment

Land and 

buildings

97,106
25,360
69,309
34,099

225,874

41,835
2,332
1,047

45,214

1,632
–
–
–

1,632

1,679
–
–

1,679

Total

98,738
25,360
69,309
34,099

227,506

43,514
2,332
1,047

46,893

(d)  Operating lease rental receivable

The  future  aggregate  minimum  lease  rental  income  under  non-cancellable  operating  leases  are  receivable  in  the 
following years:

US$’000

At 31st December 2020

Less than 1 year
Between 1 and 2 years
Between 2 and 5 years
Over 5 years

At 31st December 2019
Less than 1 year
Between 1 and 2 years
Between 2 and 5 years
Over 5 years

176

Land and

buildings

24,601
20,964
48,899
32,010

126,474

24,946
24,582
60,180
52,842

162,550

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

41.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT

(a)  Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations

US$’000

Operating profit

Interest income

Dividend income and distribution

Provision for onerous contract

Depreciation and amortisation

Reversal of impairment on investments at amortised cost

Fair value loss/(gain) from assets and liabilities

Gain on bargain purchase of subsidiaries

Net gain on disposal of non-current assets

Loss on written-off of non-current assets

Employee share-based compensation

Operating profit before working capital changes

Decrease in inventories

Increase in debtors and prepayments

Increase in creditors and accruals

Decrease in other non-current liabilities

Change in net pension liabilities

Settlement of derivative financial instruments

Cash generated from operations

2020

992,187

(56,350)

(8,768)

348,545

452,186

–

36,049

(377)

(8,481)

111

4,776

1,759,878

18,707

(18,609)

256,987

–

(3,442)

85

2,013,606

2019

438,109

(73,432)

(9,648)

–

429,336

(2,260)

(23,647)

–

(11,175)

3,502

2,651

753,436

5,535

(2,523)

196,875

(5,005)

(1,945)

1,758

948,131

177177

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

41.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

(b)  The reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities is as follows:

US$’000

At 1st January 2019
Cash flow

Inflow from financing activities*
Outflow from financing activities*

Non-cash changes

Inception of leases (note 41(e))
Termination of leases
Currency translation adjustments
Finance costs
Other changes

At 31st December 2019
Cash flow

Inflow from financing activities
Outflow from financing activities

Non-cash changes

Acquisition of subsidiaries
Inception of leases (note 41(e))
Termination of leases
Lease modification
Currency translation adjustments
Finance costs

Borrowings

Lease liabilities

Total

1,758,977

2,675,461

4,434,438

301,310
(684,659)

99,145
(352,109)

400,455
(1,036,768)

–
–
–
4,098
48,411

60,218
(2,214)
(1,368)
15,571
68,248

60,218
(2,214)
(1,368)
19,669
116,659

1,428,137

2,562,952

3,991,089

99,550
(496,934)

–
(603,882)

99,550
(1,100,816)

–
–
–
–
–
2,842

456
56,186
(496)
(2,214)
6,195
17,051

456
56,186
(496)
(2,214)
6,195
19,893

At 31st December 2020

1,033,595

2,036,248

3,069,843

* 

Included cash inflow and outflow from financing activities for continuing and discontinued operations.

178

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

41.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

(c)  Acquisition of subsidiaries

Details of the purchase consideration, the net assets acquired and gain on bargain purchase are as follows:

US$’000

Purchase consideration
Fair value of previously held equity interest at the date of acquisition
Fair value of net assets acquired (see below)
Release of reserve upon step acquisition from joint venture to subsidiary

Gain on bargain purchase

The fair values of assets and liabilities recognised as a result of the acquisitions are as follows:

US$’000

Property, plant and equipment
Right-of-use assets
Debtors and prepayments
Cash and bank balances
Lease liabilities
Deferred taxation liabilities
Creditors and accruals
Current taxation

Total identifiable net assets acquired

Net cash inflow on acquisition:
Cash and cash equivalents acquired
Less: Purchase consideration settled in cash

Net cash inflow

2020

65
531
(1,625)
652

(377)

2020

33
515
5,416
9,711
(456)
(73)
(12,524)
(997)

1,625

9,711
(65)

9,646

179179

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

41.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

(d)  Disposal of a subsidiary

US$’000

Net assets disposed

Property, plant and equipment
Right-of-use assets
Inventories
Debtors and prepayments
Amount due from an intermediate holding company
Amount due from a fellow subsidiary
Portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss
Cash and bank balances
Lease liabilities
Other non-current liabilities
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to fellow subsidiaries

Gain on disposal after taxation
Taxation on disposal gain

Cash consideration, net

Net cash inflow arising on disposal:
Cash consideration, net
Less: Cash and bank balances disposed

Net cash inflow

(e)  Major non-cash transactions

2019

413,249
819,133
6,050
32,299
17,233
6,815
752
58,884
(838,515)
(600)
(27,898)
(204)

487,198
1,153,634
127,300

1,768,132

1,768,132
(58,884)

1,709,248

During  the  year,  major  non-cash  transactions  included  the  inception  of  leases  of  US$56.2  million  (2019:  US$60.2 
million).

(f)  Analysis of cash and cash equivalents

US$’000

2020

2019

Bank balances and deposits maturing within three months  

from the date of placement

1,398,109

2,272,570

(g)  Cash outflow for leases

In addition to the cash flows arising from lease liabilities as stated in note 41(b) above, the total cash outflow for short-
term and low-value leases and interest expense on lease liabilities for the year ended 31st December 2020 was US$378.2 
million (2019: US$350.2 million).

180

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

42.  SIGNIFICANT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

The Company is controlled by COSCO SHIPPING, the ultimate parent company and a state-owned enterprise established in 
the PRC.

COSCO  SHIPPING  itself  is  controlled  by  the  PRC  government,  which  also  owns  a  significant  portion  of  the  productive 
assets  in  the  PRC.  Government-related  entities  and  their  subsidiaries  directly  or  indirectly  controlled,  jointly  controlled  or 
significantly  influenced  by  the  PRC  government  are  defined  as  related  parties  of  the  Group.  On  that  basis,  related  parties 
include  COSCO  SHIPPING  and  its  subsidiaries  (other  than  the  Group)  (collectively  referred  to  as  “COSCO  SHIPPING 
Group”) and related entities of COSCO SHIPPING (including joint ventures and associated companies), other government-
related entities and their subsidiaries, entities in which the Company is able to exercise joint control or significant influence, 
and key management personnel of the Company and COSCO SHIPPING as well as their close family members.

For  the  purpose  of  related  party  transaction  disclosures,  the  Directors  believe  that  it  is  meaningful  to  disclose  the  related 
party  transactions  with  COSCO  SHIPPING  Group  companies  and  related  entities  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  (including  joint 
ventures  and  associated  companies)  for  the  interests  of  financial  statements  users,  although  certain  of  those  transactions 
which are individually or collectively not significant are exempted from disclosure. The Directors believe that the information 
of related party transactions has been adequately disclosed in the consolidated financial statements.

In  addition  to  the  related  party  information  and  transactions  disclosed  elsewhere  in  the  consolidated  financial  statements, 
the following is a summary of significant related party transactions conducted in the ordinary course of business between the 
Group and its related parties during the year.

(a)  Transactions with COSCO SHIPPING Group and related entities of COSCO SHIPPING 

(including joint ventures and associated companies)

US$’000

Income

Container transport income (note ii)
Freight forwarding income
Terminal handling and storage income
Rental income
Vessels
Containers
IT service income
Interest income

Expenses

Cargo transportation costs
Freight forwarding expenses
Terminal charges (note iii)
Expenses relating to short-term leases and leases with low-value assets

Vessels
Containers
Land and buildings

Slot hire expenses
Purchase of bunker (note iv)
Crew expenses
Vessel insurance expenses
Management service fee

Others

Purchase of containers
Instalments of vessels under construction (note v)

2020

126,517
5,108
3,997

35,991
7,932
36,548
91

100,543
19,347
133,034

90,835
10,091
409
104,981
113,661
1,296
7,907
300

96,868
188,228

2019

88,179
2,186
39,633

7,426
8,157
9,177
26

111,885
8,640
107,097

48,676
4,496
–
89,590
230,280
1,147
–
–

57,666
–

181181

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

42.  SIGNIFICANT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)

(b)  Transactions with joint ventures of the Group

US$’000

Income

Container transport income

Expenses

Cargo transportation costs

(c)  Transactions with other related parties

US$’000

Income

Container transport income

Expenses

Cargo transportation costs
Freight forwarding expenses
Terminal charges
Expenses relating to short-term leases and leases with low-value assets 

Vessels
Containers
Slot hire expenses
Purchase of bunker

Others

Purchase of containers

Notes:

2020

473

7,382

2020

6,216

19,824
2
37,378

–
17
–
–

–

2019

752

7,980

2019

7,856

17,356
85
37,598

1,134
–
391
465

6,699

(i) 

These transactions were conducted either (i) based on terms as governed by the master agreements and subsisting agreements entered 

into between the Group and COSCO SHIPPING Group or (ii) based on terms as set out in the underlying agreements, statutory rates or 

market prices or actual costs incurred, or as mutually agreed between the Group and the parties in concern.

(ii)  Container transport income of US$23.7 million (2019: US$13.8 million) and US$35.8 million (2019: US$24.8 million) were transacted 

with the associated companies and joint ventures of COSCO SHIPPING respectively during the year ended 31st December 2020.

(iii)  Terminal  charges  of  US$90.9  million  (2019:  US$72.2  million)  were  transacted  with  the  associated  companies  of  COSCO  SHIPPING 

during the year ended 31st December 2020.

(iv)  Bunker of US$97.3 million (2019: US$225.1 million) was purchased from a joint venture of COSCO SHIPPING during the year ended 

31st December 2020.

(v)  The  Group  entered  into  shipbuilding  contracts  for  twelve  vessels  with  a  subsidiary  and  an  associated  company  of  COSCO  SHIPPING 

respectively for an aggregate consideration of US$1,882.3 million (2019: nil) during the year ended 31st December 2020. The remaining 

capital commitment is disclosed in note 40(a).

182

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43.  COMPANY BALANCE SHEET

As at 31st December 2020

US$’000

ASSETS

Non-current asset

Investments in subsidiaries

Current assets

Prepayments

Amounts due from subsidiaries

Restricted bank balances

Cash and bank balances

Total assets

EQUITY

Equity holders

Share capital

Reserves (note)

Total equity

LIABILITIES

Current liabilities

Creditors and accruals

Amounts due to subsidiaries

Dividend payable

Total equity and liabilities

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2020

2019

176,914

172,138

71

53

2,334,894

3,354,523

483

1,653

349

1,634

2,337,101

3,356,559

2,514,015

3,528,697

62,579

1,215,723

62,579

1,060,506

1,278,302

1,123,085

2,134

1,233,579

–

1,968

1,402,375

1,001,269

1,235,713

2,405,612

2,514,015

3,528,697

183183

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

43.  COMPANY BALANCE SHEET (CONTINUED)

Note:

Movements of reserves

US$’000

At 1st January 2019

Total comprehensive income for the year

Transactions with owners

Employee share-based compensation

2018 final dividend

2019 interim dividend

2019 first special dividend

Share
premium

172,457

–

–

–

–

–

At 31st December 2019

172,457

Total comprehensive income for the year

Transactions with owners

Employee share-based compensation

2019 final dividend

2019 second special dividend

2020 interim dividend

–

–

–

–

–

Employee
share-based
compensation
reserve

–

–

2,651

–

–

–

2,651

–

4,776

–

–

–

Contributed
surplus

Capital
redemption
reserve

88,547

4,696

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

88,547

4,696

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Retained
profit

730,930

1,152,353

–

(48,181)

(41,678)

Total

996,630

1,152,353 

2,651 

(48,181)

(41,678) 

(1,001,269)

(1,001,269)

792,155

348,066

1,060,506

348,066 

–

(16,834)

(150,190)

(30,601)

4,776 

(16,834) 

(150,190) 

(30,601)

At 31st December 2020

172,457

7,427

88,547

4,696

942,596

1,215,723

Under  the  Companies  Act  of  Bermuda  and  the  Bye-laws  of  the  Company,  the  contributed  surplus  is  also  distributable.  Accordingly,  total 

distributable reserves of the Company amount to US$1,031.1 million as at 31st December 2020 (2019: US$880.7 million).

44.  EVENT SUBSEQUENT TO YEAR END

On 22nd January 2021, the Company entered into a share placing and subscription agreement for the allotment and issue of 
11,400,000 shares at a subscription price of HK$81.8 per share. The share subscription was completed on 29th January 2021.

45.  APPROVAL OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 26th March 2021.

184

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures

as at 31st December 2020

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures

as at 31st December 2020

Name of Company

Subsidiaries

Cargo System Warehouse and 

Transport Ltd.

Consolidated Leasing &  

Terminals, Inc.

Containers No. 1 Inc.

Containers No. 2 Inc.

Containers No. 3 Inc.

Containers No. 5 Inc.

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

100

100

100

100

100

100

3,000 ordinary shares 
HK$300,000

Investment holding and 
container transport

Hong Kong, China

Hong Kong, China

1 common stock 
US$100

Investment holding, equipment 
owning and leasing

USA

USA

10,000 ordinary shares 
US$100,000

10,000 ordinary shares 
US$100,000

10,000 ordinary shares 
US$100,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Equipment owning and leasing Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Equipment owning and leasing Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Equipment leasing

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Equipment leasing

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Dongguan Orient Container Co. Ltd.

100

Registered capital 
HK$29,000,000

Container depot and 
warehousing

China *

China

Far Gain Investment Ltd.

Glory Top Investment Ltd.

100

100

Hai Dong Transportation Co. Ltd.

100

10,000 ordinary shares 
HK$10,000

10,000 ordinary shares 
HK$10,000

100,000 ordinary shares 
HK$100,000

Investment holding

Hong Kong, China

Hong Kong, China

Portfolio investment

Hong Kong, China

Hong Kong, China

Freight forwarding

Hong Kong, China

Hong Kong, China

IQAX Limited

Kenwake Limited

Laronda Company Ltd.

100

100
100

100

Maritime Delivery Services Inc.

100

4,010,000 class A 
ordinary shares
US$4,010,000

AI and blockchain digital data 
on network applications and 
platform design

Hong Kong, China

Hong Kong, China

1,600,000 ordinary shares
520,000 5% cumulative
preference shares
￡2,120,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

1,000 common stock 
US$10,000

Investment holding

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

Portfolio investment

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Trucking service

USA

USA

185
185

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2020

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Newcontainer 1370A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1371A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1420 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1421 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1484 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1564A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1565A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1584A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1585A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1667A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1668A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2002 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2004 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2005 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2007 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2009 Shipping Inc.

100

186

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2020

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Newcontainer 2010 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2011 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2172 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2173 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 4090 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 5 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 6 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 9 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 10 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 15 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 51 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 52 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 67 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 69 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 73 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 75 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Liberia †

Worldwide

Ship owning

Liberia †

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

187187

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2020

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Newcontainer No. 81 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 82 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 83 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 85 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 86 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 87 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 88 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 89 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 90 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 93 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 95 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 96 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 97 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 98 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 99 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 100 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

188

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2020

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Newcontainer No. 101 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 102 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 103 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 107 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 108 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 109 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 110 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 111 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 112 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 113 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 115 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 116 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 117 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 118 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 119 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 120 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

189189

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2020

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Newcontainer No. 121 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 122 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 123 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 125 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 126 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Newcontainer No. 127 (Marshall 

100

Islands) Shipping Inc.

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

OLL Logistics (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

100

10,000 ordinary shares 
RM10,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Malaysia

Malaysia

O M Depot Company Limited

51

OOCL (Agencies) Holdings Inc.

100

OOCL (Assets) Holdings Inc.

100

OOCL (Assets USA) Holdings Inc.

100

OOCL (Australia) Pty Ltd.

OOCL BENELUX

OOCL (Cambodia) Ltd.

100

100

100

80,000 ordinary shares 
THB8,000,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

50,000 ordinary shares 
US$50,000

200,000 ordinary shares 
A$200,000

226,271 ordinary shares 
€609,799

50,000 ordinary shares 
Riel200,000,000

Container Depot

Thailand

Thailand

Investment holding

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Investment holding

Liberia †

USA

Liner agency

Australia

Australia

Liner agency

Belgium

Belgium

Liner agency

Cambodia

Cambodia

190

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2020

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

OOCL (Canada) Inc.

100

OOCL (China) Investment Ltd.

100

OOCL (Corporate Services) Limited

100

OOCL (Denmark) A/S

OOCL (Europe) Limited

OOCL (Finland) Ltd. Oy

OOCL (India) Private Limited

100

100

100

100

OOCL (Infotech) Holdings Ltd.

100

OOCL (Italy) S.r.l.

OOCL (Korea) Ltd.

OOCL (Liners) Holdings Ltd.

100

100

100

OOCL (Logistics) Holdings Ltd.

100

OOCL (Mexico), S.A. de C.V.

OOCL (New Zealand) Ltd.

OOCL Pakistan (Private) Ltd.

OOCL (Philippines) Inc.

100

100

100

100

10,000 common stock 
C$91,000

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

1,000 ordinary shares 
DKK500,000

Liner agency

Canada

Canada

Investment holding

Hong Kong, China

China

Provision of corporate services Hong Kong, China

Hong Kong, China

Liner agency

Denmark

Northern Europe

5,000,000 ordinary shares
￡5,000,000

Container transport, investment 
holding and liner territorial office

United Kingdom

Worldwide

150 ordinary shares 
€2,522.82

1,000 equity shares 
Rupees100,000

2 ordinary shares 
US$2

1 quota 
€10,000

16,000 common stock 
Won160,000,000

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

10,000 ordinary shares 
US$10,000

600,000 ordinary shares 
Peso600,000

100 ordinary shares 
NZD1,000

1,350,000 ordinary shares 
PKR13,500,000

55,000 common stock 
Peso5,500,000

Liner agency

Finland

Finland

Liner agency

India

India

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

Liner agency

Italy

Korea

Italy

Korea

Investment holding

Hong Kong, China

Hong Kong, China

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

Mexico

Mexico

Liner agency

New Zealand

New Zealand

Liner agency

Pakistan

Pakistan

Liner agency

Philippines

Philippines

191191

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2020

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

OOCL (Poland) Ltd sp. z o.o.

OOCL (Portugal), Lda

OOCL (Russia) Ltd.

OOCL (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

OOCL (Sweden) AB

100

100

100

100

100

OOCL (Terminals) Investment Ltd.

100

OOCL (USA) Inc.

OOCL (Vietnam) Co. Ltd.

OOCL China Domestics Ltd.

OOCL GEMİ ACENTELİĞİ 

HİZMETLERİ VE TİCARET  
ANONİM ŞİRKETİ

OOCL LLC

OOCL Logistics Limited

100

100

100

100

100

100

OOCL Logistics (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

100

1,000 ordinary shares 
PLN50,000

2 quotas  
€25,000

1 ordinary share 
Rub10,000

100,000 ordinary shares 
S$100,000

100,000 ordinary shares 
SEK100,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$500

1,030 common stock 
US$1,030

Legal capital 
US$500,000

Liner agency

Poland

Poland

Liner agency

Portugal

Portugal

Liner agency

Russia

Russia

Liner agency

Singapore

Singapore

Liner agency

Sweden

Sweden

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

USA

USA

Liner agency

Vietnam

Vietnam

Registered capital 
RMB21,250,000

Transportation and freight 
agency

China ±

100,000 shares 
TL.100,000

Liner agency

Turkey

China

Turkey

Capital of 
US$500,000

Investment holding and 
equipment owning

USA

USA

10,000 ordinary shares 
US$10,000

200 ordinary shares 
US$20,000

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Hong Kong, China

Investment holding, 
management of international 
transportation and logistics

Bermuda

Worldwide

OOCL Logistics (Australia) Pty. 

100

Limited

200,000 ordinary shares 
A$200,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Australia

Australia

OOCL Logistics (Cambodia) Ltd.

100

1,250 ordinary shares
Riel5,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation  
and forwarding

Cambodia

Cambodia

OOCL Logistics (Canada) Ltd.

100

1,000 common stock 
C$1,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Canada

Canada

192

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2020

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

OOCL Logistics (China) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (Europe) Ltd.

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

100

100

Registered capital 
US$4,840,000

2 ordinary shares 
￡2

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

China *

China

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding territorial office

United Kingdom

Europe

OOCL Logistics (Hong Kong) Ltd.

100

50,000 ordinary shares 
HK$500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Hong Kong, China

Hong Kong, China

OOCL Logistics (India) Private 

100

Limited

35,000 equity shares 
Rupee3,500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

OOCL Logistics (Japan) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (Korea) Ltd.

100

100

6,200 ordinary shares 
Yen10,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

280,000 common stock 
Won2,800,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Korea

OOCL Logistics Mexico, S.A. de  C.V.

100

500,000 ordinary shares 
Peso500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Mexico

India

Japan

India

Japan

Korea

Mexico

OOCL Logistics Pakistan (Pvt) 

100

Limited

1,300,000 ordinary shares 
PKR13,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Pakistan

Pakistan 

OOCL Logistics (Russia) Limited

100

OOCL Logistics (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (USA) Inc.

100

OOCL Logistics Line Limited

100

OOCL Logistics Warehousing and 

100

Transportation (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.

OOCL Logistics Warehousing and 
Transportation (Tianjin) Co. Ltd.

OOCL Transport & Logistics 

Holdings Ltd. #

100

100

1 ordinary share 
Rub10,000

2 ordinary shares 
S$2

100 common stock 
US$200

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

Registered capital 
US$1,000,000

Registered capital 
US$4,700,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Russia

Russia

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Logistics, cargo consolidation, 
forwarding and investment 
holding

Transportation and freight 
forwarding

Singapore

Singapore

USA

Worldwide

Hong Kong, China

Worldwide

Warehousing and logistics 
services

China *

Warehousing, transportation 
and logistics services

China *

China

China

169,477,152 ordinary shares 
US$169,477,152

Investment holding

Bermuda

Worldwide

OOCL Warehousing (Shanghai) 

100

Limited

Registered capital 
US$10,000,000

Warehousing and depot 
services

China *

China

193193

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2020

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

OOIL (Investments) Inc. #

Orient Overseas Associates

Orient Overseas Building Corp.

100

100

100

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(China) Co. Ltd.

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Limited partnership

Property owning

Property owning

USA

USA

USA

USA

Liner agency

China *

China

10 common stock 
US$150,000

Registered capital 
US$3,400,000

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(Europe) Ltd.

66,000,000 ordinary shares 
￡66,000,000

Investment holding

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

500,000 ordinary shares 
RM500,000

Liner agency

Malaysia

Malaysia

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(Spain), S.L.

3,100 ordinary shares 
€3,100

Liner agency

Spain

Spain

Orient Overseas Container Line  

100

(UK) Ltd.

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Ship management and vessel 
operator

Cayman Islands

Worldwide

Orient Overseas Container Line Inc.

100

Orient Overseas Container Line Ltd.

100

The Speed Limited

Union Faith (H.K.) Limited

Wall Street Plaza, Inc.

100

100

100
100
100

100

100

100

500 ordinary shares 
US$25,000,000

10,000 ordinary shares 
HK$1,000,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

1 ordinary share 
HK$1

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Container transport

Hong Kong, China

Worldwide

Provision of financing to Group Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Hong Kong, China

Worldwide

USA

USA

Investment holding

40 class A common stock
160 class B common stock
20,000 series A non-cumulative 
non-voting preferred stock
18,000 series B non-cumulative 
non-voting preferred stock
19,500 series C non-cumulative 
non-voting preferred stock
19,000 series D non-cumulative 
non-voting preferred stock 
US$76,500,200

Wealth Capital Corporation

100

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

194

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2020

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Associated companies

Ningbo Yuan Dong Terminal Ltd.

Tianjin Port Alliance International 
Container Terminal Co. Ltd.

20

20

Zhongjing Supply Chain Technology 

25.9

Co., Ltd.

Eshipping Global Supply Chain 

42.35

Management (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd.

Joint ventures

OOCL (UAE) LLC

Tan Cang – COSCO – OOCL 
Logistics Company Limited

Qingdao Orient International 

Container Storage & 
Transportation Co. Ltd.

49

30

55

Registered capital 
RMB2,500,000,000

Registered capital 
US$160,000,000

Registered capital 
RMB76,500,000

Registered capital 
RMB40,000,000

300 ordinary shares 
AED300,000

Legal capital 
US$1,000,000

Registered capital 
RMB69,900,000

Terminal operating

China§

Terminal operating

China§

Supply chain management, 
technology and consulting

China§

Supply chain management

China§

China

China

China

China

Liner agency

Dubai

Dubai

Container depot

Vietnam

Vietnam

Container depot

China§

China

 #  Direct subsidiaries of the Company.
 †  Companies incorporated in Liberia but redomiciled to the Marshall Islands.
 *  Wholly foreign-owned enterprise.
§  Sino-foreign equity joint venture enterprise.
±  Domestic joint venture enterprise.

195195

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
Fleet and Container Information

Fleet and Container Information

Fleet

The following table sets out the Group’s vessels as at 31st December 2020.

TEU 
CAPACITY

OWNERSHIP

SERVICE IN 
WHICH USED

DATE 
PLACED IN 
SERVICE

FLAG

5,344
8,063
8,063
4,583
13,208
8,888
2,992
4,578
5,344
8,888
4,578
5,714
13,208
4,578
8,063
4,578
8,063
4,578
4,578
4,578
4,578
8,063
8,063
4,402
4,578
5,770
4,578
4,578
8,063
5,714
4,578
21,413
8,063
5,770
8,063
4,578
8,063
21,413
8,063
4,578
4,583

Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned

Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
N/A
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
N/A
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Asia-Australia
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia

1995
2006
2005
2006
2013
2011
1998
2008
1995
2011
2010
2000
2013
2009
2006
2010
2004
2007
2010
2007
2010
2010
2010
2003
2009
1999
2009
2008
2004
2000
2010
2017
2010
1999
2007
2008
2007
2017
2010
2007
2006

Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China

VESSEL NAME

OOCL America
OOCL Asia
OOCL Atlanta
OOCL Australia
OOCL Bangkok
OOCL Beijing
OOCL Belgium
OOCL Busan
OOCL California
OOCL Canada
OOCL Charleston
OOCL Chicago
OOCL Chongqing
OOCL Dalian
OOCL Europe
OOCL Guangzhou
OOCL Hamburg
OOCL Houston
OOCL Jakarta
OOCL Kobe
OOCL Le Havre
OOCL London
OOCL Luxembourg
OOCL Montreal
OOCL Nagoya
OOCL New York
OOCL Norfolk
OOCL Panama
OOCL Rotterdam
OOCL San Francisco
OOCL Savannah
OOCL Scandinavia
OOCL Seoul
OOCL Shanghai
OOCL Southampton
OOCL Texas
OOCL Tokyo
OOCL United Kingdom
OOCL Washington
OOCL Yokohama
OOCL Zhoushan

196

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VESSEL NAME

Buxmelody
OOCL Antwerp
OOCL Berlin
OOCL Brisbane
OOCL Brussels
OOCL Dubai
OOCL Egypt
OOCL France
OOCL Genoa
OOCL Germany
OOCL Ho Chi Minh City
OOCL Hong Kong
OOCL Indonesia
OOCL Italy
OOCL Japan
OOCL Kaohsiung
OOCL Korea
OOCL Kuala Lumpur
OOCL Malaysia
OOCL Memphis
OOCL Miami
OOCL New Zealand
OOCL Oakland
OOCL Poland
OOCL Singapore
OOCL St. Lawrence
OOCL Taipei
OOCL Utah
OOCL Vancouver
Spectrum N
Amalia C
Anina
AS Camellia
AS Sara
Baleares
Bomar Milione
Brussels
Buxcliff
Cape Fortius
Chesapeake Bay
Cornelia I
COSCO England
COSCO Italy
COSCO Netherlands
COSCO Philippines
COSCO Portugal

TEU 
CAPACITY

2,702
5,888
13,208
4,578
13,208
5,888
13,208
13,208
8,888
21,413
8,888
21,413
21,413
5,888
21,413
5,888
13,208
5,888
13,208
8,888
8,888
4,578
5,888
13,208
13,208
5,047
8,888
8,888
5,888
2,546
2,452
1,008
2,824
1,713
2,546
4,363
5,806
6,892
2,210
4,253
5,089
13,386
13,386
13,386
8,501
13,386

OWNERSHIP

Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Long Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease

Fleet and Container Information

SERVICE IN 
WHICH USED

DATE 
PLACED IN 
SERVICE

FLAG

Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
N/A
Asia-Europe
N/A
Asia-Europe
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
N/A
N/A
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Atlantic
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Trans-Pacific

2008
2006
2013
2009
2013
2006
2013
2013
2015
2017
2015
2017
2018
2007
2017
2006
2014
2007
2013
2013
2013
2009
2007
2013
2014
2005
2015
2015
2006
2009
1998
2006
2006
2010
2014
2008
2000
2001
2017
2003
2010
2013
2014
2013
2010
2014

Liberia
Panama
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Singapore
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Singapore
Hong Kong, China
Singapore
Hong Kong, China
Singapore
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Panama
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Malta
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Panama
Liberia
Malta
Portugal
Portugal
Portugal
Marshall Island
Liberia
Portugal
Portugal
Cyprus
Liberia
Liberia
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China

197197

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fleet and Container Information

VESSEL NAME

COSCO Shipping Aquarius
COSCO Shipping Planet
COSCO Vietnam
E.R. Los Angeles
Ela
Hansa Drakenburg
Keta (Ex. GSL Keta)
Ludwig Schulte
Lydia
Maine Trader
Miami
Mount Gough
Navi Baltic
Nordtiger
OOCL Rauma
Orea
Rhl Aqua
Rio Grande
San Lorenzo
Santa Loukia
Seamaster
Seamax Stratford
Seamelody
Spil Kartini
ST Green
Tamina
Teng Yun He
Tzini
Vela
Vulpecula
William
YM Vancouver
TOTAL 119 VESSELS

TEU 
CAPACITY

19,273
21,237
8,501
5,992
1,740
1,738
2,207
1,740
2,702
4,992
5,089
1,756
1,421
1,756
1,421
2,194
1,732
4,253
1,708
1,704
1,756
8,533
4,892
4,218
2,535
5,527
1,702
1,756
4,258
4,258
1,732
4,253
835,107

OWNERSHIP

Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease
Short Term lease

SERVICE IN 
WHICH USED

DATE 
PLACED IN 
SERVICE

FLAG

Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Atlantic
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia

2019
2019
2011
2001
2012
2007
2003
2008
2009
2004
2007
2016
2009
2014
2009
2015
2007
2008
2014
2014
2013
2006
2009
2008
2011
2004
2000
2013
2009
2010
2009
2007

Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Hong Kong, China
Liberia
Liberia
Liberia
Liberia
Singapore
Portugal
Malta
Liberia
Hong Kong, China
Portugal
Cyprus
Netherlands
Malta
Liberia
Malta
Cyprus
Malta
Malta
Marshall Island
Malta
Panama
Liberia
Liberia
China
Malta
Liberia
Liberia
Portugal
Cyprus

Container Information

The Group owned and leased 1,126,871 units (1,944,824 TEU) as of 31st December 2020.

198

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10-Year Financial Summary

10-Year Financial Summary

US$’000

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

Consolidated Profit and Loss Data

Revenue

Operating profit/(loss)

Finance costs

Profit/(loss) before taxation

Profit/(loss) for the year from  

continuing operations

Profit/(loss) for the year from  

discontinued operations

Profit/(loss) for the year

Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders

Per Ordinary Share

Earnings/(loss) (US cents) 

from continuing operations

from discontinued operations

Dividends (US cents)

Weighted average number of ordinary shares  

6,011,836

6,459,059

6,231,583

6,521,589

5,953,444

5,297,693

5,981,676

6,572,655

6,878,740

8,191,304

174,598

327,904

90,314

329,147

353,068

(138,227)

238,155

262,935

361,281

992,187

(26,179)

(32,877)

(41,019)

(54,000)

(63,642)

(79,393)

(97,418)

(143,191)

(151,599)

(91,312)

162,457

310,134

66,999

294,583

307,208

(199,667)

159,871

134,068

223,826

913,674

139,354

296,317

47,133

270,438

283,851

(219,221)

147,438

75,448

153,987

903,018

43,000

182,354

181,645

–

296,317

295,387

–

47,133

47,036

–

270,438

270,538

–

283,851

283,851

–

(9,782)

32,718

1,194,806

(219,221)

(219,221)

137,656

137,656

108,166

108,166

1,348,793

1,348,793

–

903,018

902,723

22.1

6.9

7.00

47.2

–

11.84

7.5

–

1.88

43.2

–

10.90

45.4

–

11.45

(35.0)

–

–

23.6

(1.6)

2.14

12.1

5.2

7.70

24.6

190.9

193.35

144.3

–

141.75

in issue (‘000)

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

Consolidated Balance Sheet Data

Property, plant and equipment

4,205,194

4,664,773

5,320,251

5,608,929

6,020,744

6,076,673

6,251,457

5,880,057

3,162,424

3,744,666

Right-of-use assets

Liquid assets

Assets held for sale

Liabilities directly associated with  

assets classified as held for sale

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

2,830,674

2,303,265

2,413,132

2,339,531

2,411,085

2,689,754

2,548,976

2,186,946

2,534,463

2,246,803

2,858,824

3,323,013

–

–

–

–

–

–

53,047

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

472,732

(141,048)

–

–

–

–

Other net current liabilities

(543,133)

(654,625)

(473,105)

(628,393)

(622,964)

(738,046)

(671,309)

(596,779)

(979,118)

(1,221,034)

Total assets

Long-term debt

Total long and short-term debt

Net (cash)/debt
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

Other Financial Information

Depreciation

Capital expenditure

Consolidated Financial Ratios/Percentages

Debt to equity ratio

Net (cash)/debt to equity ratio

Return on average ordinary  
shareholders’ equity (%)

Accounts payable as a % of revenue

Accounts receivable as a % of revenue

Net asset value per ordinary share (US$)

7,711,478

8,231,039

8,990,218

9,633,455

9,731,574

9,404,590

10,069,296

10,053,860

11,201,865

10,644,553

2,233,095

2,325,777

3,265,555

3,595,625

3,663,100

3,489,272

3,930,025

3,695,834

3,342,224

2,489,488

2,672,206

2,881,530

3,533,865

3,984,502

4,101,719

4,090,737

4,554,183

4,197,756

3,991,089

3,069,843

259,074

541,999

1,122,780

1,294,748

1,552,743

1,903,791

2,019,720

1,950,953

1,132,265

(253,170)

4,233,468

4,481,815

4,470,807

4,634,752

4,797,510

4,519,286

4,682,513

4,735,130

4,927,407

5,642,114

242,534

744,603

235,346

784,562

302,884

999,451

323,482

848,769

315,426

796,720

400,351

478,637

428,482

618,690

385,622

412,901

409,255

387,192

430,689

501,926

0.63

0.06

3.7

11.8

7.8

6.76

0.64

0.12

6.8

12.1

8.4

7.16

0.79

0.25

1.1

14.5

8.9

7.14

0.86

0.28

5.9

14.5

8.8

7.41

0.85

0.32

6.0

12.6

8.4

7.67

0.91

0.42

(4.7)

13.1

9.0

7.22

0.97

0.43

3.0

12.4

9.9

7.48

0.89

0.41

2.3

12.8

9.7

7.57

0.81

0.23

27.9

15.6

9.7

7.87

0.54

(0.04)

17.1

16.9

8.3

9.02

Note:
(1)  The accounting policy on HKAS 19 (Amendment) “Employee Benefits” was changed in 2013 and the figures prior to 2011 have not been restated to 

reflect this change.

(2)  The results of discontinued operation prior to 2017 have not been restated or reclassified.
(3)  The  accounting  policy  on  HKFRS  16  “Leases”  was  changed  in  2019  and  in  accordance  with  the  transitional  provision  in  HKFRS  16,  comparative 

figures have not been restated.

199
199

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Information

Corporate Information

EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

PRINCIPAL REGISTRAR

SOLICITORS

Conyers Dill & Pearman
  Clarendon House
  2 Church Street
  Hamilton HM11
  Bermuda

  and

  29th Floor, One Exchange Square
  8 Connaught Place
  Central
  Hong Kong, China

Ince & Co
  Suites 4404-10, 44th Floor
  One Island East
  18 Westlands Road, Taikoo Place
  Hong Kong, China

Slaughter and May
  47th Floor, Jardine House
  One Connaught Place
  Central
  Hong Kong, China

AUDITOR

PricewaterhouseCoopers
Certified Public Accountants
Registered Public Interest Entity
Auditor
  22nd Floor
  Prince’s Building
  Central
  Hong Kong, China

Mr. Xu Lirong (Chairman)
Mr. Huang Xiaowen
  (Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. Yang Zhijian
Mr. Feng Boming

NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Yan Jun
Ms. Wang Dan
Mr. Ip Sing Chi
Ms. Cui Hongqin

INDEPENDENT NON- 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip
Ms. Chen Ying
Mr. So Gregory Kam Leung

MUFG Fund Services
(Bermuda) Limited
  4th Floor North, Cedar House
  41 Cedar Avenue
  Hamilton HM12
  Bermuda

BRANCH REGISTRAR

Computershare  Hong  Kong  Investor 
Services Limited
  Shops 1712-1716, 17th Floor
  Hopewell Centre
  183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai
  Hong Kong, China

LISTING EXCHANGE

The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong
Limited
Stock Code: 316

WEBSITE

CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

http://www.ooilgroup.com

MAJOR BANKERS

Australia and New Zealand Banking 
  Group Limited
Bank of America, N.A.
Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited
Bank of Communications Company
  Limited
China Construction Bank
  Corporation
China Everbright Bank
  Company Limited
Citibank, N.A.
DBS Bank Limited
HSBC Holdings plc
Industrial and Commercial Bank
  of China (Asia) Limited
ING Bank N.V.
MUFG Bank, Ltd
National Australia Bank
Oversea-Chinese Banking
  Corporation Limited
Shanghai Pudong Development Bank 
  Company Limited
Société Générale
Standard Chartered Bank
(Hong Kong) Limited

Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Limited

Mr. Zhang Mingwen

COMPANY SECRETARY

Mr. Xiao Junguang

AUTHORISED
REPRESENTATIVES

Mr. Yang Zhijian
Mr. Xiao Junguang

PRINCIPAL OFFICE

31st Floor
Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road, Wanchai
Hong Kong, China

REGISTERED OFFICE

Clarendon House
2 Church Street
Hamilton HM11
Bermuda

200

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2020 
 
 
