O
r
i
e
n
t

O
v
e
r
s
e
a
s

(
I

n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
)

i

L
m

i
t
e
d

A
n
n
u
a
l

R
e
p
o
r
t
2
0
1
2

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
(Incorporated in Bermuda with Limited Liability)

33rd Floor Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong   Telephone: (852) 2833 3838
www.ooilgroup.com

Design and Production by: Toppan Vite Limited

This report is printed on paper in accordance with the standards below

Acid Free     Lignin Free     Dioxin Free     Biodegradable     ISO9001     ISO14001

2012

Annual Report
Orient Overseas (International) Limited

(Incorporated in Bermuda with Limited Liability)

OOCL San FranciscoOOCL ChicagoOOCL ZhoushanOOCL AustraliaOOCL BeijingOOCL CanadaOOCL New YorkOOCL CanadaOOCL ShanghaiOOCL ShenzhenOOCL Long BeachOOCL HamburgOOCL QingdaoOOCL NingboOOCL AtlantaOOCL SouthamptonOOCL KobeOOCL HoustonOOCL YokohamaOOCL New ZealandOOCL CaliforniaOOCL TianjinOOCL Jakarta   OOCL TexasOOCL NetherlandOOCL Rotterdam   OOCL AmericaOOCL SavannahOOCL GuangzhouOOCL LuxembourgOOCL SavannahOOCL WashingtonOOCL Hong KongOOCL CharlestonOOCL ChinaOOCL Montreal  OOCL NorfolkOOCL BelgiumOOCL BrisbaneOOCL TokyoOOCL PanamaOOCL DalianOOCL NagoyaOOCL LondonOOCL BusanOOCL Le Havre   OOCL SeoulOOCL EuropeOOCL AsiaOOCL CanadaOOCL Beijing 
 
 
 
 
Corporate profile

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (“OOIL”),  a  company  with  total  revenues  in  excess  of  US$6.0  billion,  has 
principal business activities in container transport and logistics services. Listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, 
the OOIL Group has more than 290 offices in 60 countries.

Orient Overseas Container Line Limited, operating under the trade name OOCL, OOIL’s wholly owned subsidiary, is 
one  of  the  world’s  largest  integrated  international  transportation  and  logistics  companies,  and  is  one  of  Hong  Kong’s 
most recognised global brands. OOCL is one of the leading international carriers serving China, providing a full range 
of logistics and transportation services throughout the country. It is also an industry leader in the use of information 
technology and e-commerce to manage the entire cargo transport process.

OOCL  was  one  of  the  first  Asian  shipping  companies  to  embrace  containerisation.  The  company’s  Far  East-US  West 
Coast  regular  liner  service  was  fully  containerised  in  November  1969.  The  first  container  sailing  saw  just  13  TEU 
transported  from  Hong  Kong  to  Long  Beach,  California,  stopping  at  several  ports  of  call  on  the  way  and  taking  49 
days  to  complete  the  round  trip.  The  company’s  first  box  ships  were  all  converted  from  its  conventional  liners,  with 
the vision of the company’s founder, Mr CY Tung. Today our modern fleet included vessels of more than 13,000 TEU, 
carrying cargo on hundreds of trade routes around the world, and forming a vital link in the global supply chain.

OOCL San FranciscoOOCL ChicagoOOCL ZhoushanOOCL AustraliaOOCL BeijingOOCL CanadaOOCL New YorkOOCL CanadaOOCL ShanghaiOOCL ShenzhenOOCL Long BeachOOCL HamburgOOCL QingdaoOOCL NingboOOCL AtlantaOOCL SouthamptonOOCL KobeOOCL HoustonOOCL YokohamaOOCL New ZealandOOCL CaliforniaOOCL TianjinOOCL Jakarta   OOCL TexasOOCL NetherlandOOCL Rotterdam   OOCL AmericaOOCL SavannahOOCL GuangzhouOOCL LuxembourgOOCL SavannahOOCL WashingtonOOCL Hong KongOOCL CharlestonOOCL ChinaOOCL Montreal  OOCL NorfolkOOCL BelgiumOOCL BrisbaneOOCL TokyoOOCL PanamaOOCL DalianOOCL NagoyaOOCL LondonOOCL BusanOOCL Le Havre   OOCL SeoulOOCL EuropeOOCL AsiaSignificant Events – 2012

  1  Contents
  2  Financial Highlights
  3 
  6  Chairman’s Letter
  10  Operations Review
  14  Major Customers and Suppliers
  16  Corporate Responsibility
  21  Financial Review
  36  Board of Directors
  39 
  40 

Senior Management
Shareholder Section
40 
41 

Financial Calendar
Shareholder Information
  43  Corporate Governance Report
  62  Report of the Directors

Index – Financial Information
Independent Auditor’s Report

  69 
  70 
  71  Financial Statements

71 
72 
73 
75 
76 
77 
78 
132 

Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Balance Sheet
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entities

 142  Other Information

Fleet and Container Information

142 
145  Terminal Information
146 

10-Year Financial Summary

1

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Contents 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$ million

Consolidated profit and loss
Revenue
Operating profit
Revaluation of Wall Street Plaza
Finance costs
Profit from continuing operations
Profit for the year

Consolidated Balance Sheet
Liquid assets
Property, plant and equipment
Total assets
Borrowings
Total liabilities
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

Consolidated Net Cash flow
Operating activities
Investing activities
Financing activities
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents

Key ratios
Operating profit margin
Gross debt to equity
Net debt to equity
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Earnings per ordinary share (US cents)
Net asset value per ordinary share (US dollar)

2012

2011

Increase/
(decrease)
% 

6,459
329
0.5
(33)
297
297

2,340
4,665
8,265
2,882
3,750
4,509

425
(875)
138
(312)

5%
0.64
0.12
7%
47.3
7.2

6,012
175
5
(26)
139
182

2,413
4,205
7,733
2,672
3,476
4,251

246
1,942
(1,492)
695

3%
0.63
0.06
4%
29.0
6.8

7%
88%
(90%)
27%
114%
63%

(3%)
11%
7%
8%
8%
6%

73%
N/M
N/M
N/M

2%
1%
6%
3%
63%
6%

50%

40%

30%

20%

10%

0%

-10%

20%

10%

0%

-10%

US$

10

8

6

4

2

0

-2

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

Profit for the year (L.H.S.)

Operating profit margin (R.H.S.)

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share (L.H.S.)

Return on Average Ordinary Shareholders’ Equity (R.H.S.)

US$M

2,000

1,000

0

-1,000

2

Financial HighlightsOrient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JANUARY

A  steel  cutting  ceremony  was  held 
on  3rd  January  2012  for  the  first  of 
OOCL’s  13,200-TEU  newbuild,  in  a 
line  of  10  ordered  from  the  Samsung 
Shipyard. The vessels will be the largest 
in the OOCL fleet.

FEBRUARY

With  our  long  history  of  support  in 
education, OOCL sponsored the “Books 
for Asia program” organised by the Asia 
Foundation,  distributing  thousands  of 
new  books  to  students  in  need  from  9 
developing countries across Asia.

Members of the G6 Alliance announced 
their  groundbreaking  cooperation  in 
the  Asia-Europe  trade  to  begin  on  the 
first week of March.

O O C L  a n n ou n c e d  a  n e w  C h i n a -
Bangkok  Service  to  further  extend 
its  service  network  between  China, 
Thailand, and Vietnam.

MARCH

OOCL  announced  the  grand  opening  of  OOCL  Logistics  Warehouse 
(Shanghai) Ltd. at the Lingang Logistics Park in Shanghai on 7th March 2012.

OOCL was presented with the “Green Award” by the Marine Department of 
the  Hong  Kong  SAR  Government  and  Hong  Kong  Shipowners  Association 
in  recognising  our  consistent  efforts  and  dedication  to  taking  a  green 
approach in our business.

With  the  mission  to  promote  maritime 

Training Centre in Zhoushan, Zhejiang 

education  and  supporting  the  role  that 

Province, China.

Chinese  seafarers  play  in  the  world’s 

maritime  transportation  and  logistics 

industry,  OOCL  announced  the  grand 

o p e n i n g   o f   t h e   O O C L   M a r i t i m e 

Academy and the International Seaman 

OOIL  and  its  subsidiaries  announced 
a  profit  attributable  to  shareholders 
for  2011  of  US$181.6  million,  despite 
the  deterioration  in  trading  conditions 
over the course of 2011.

3

Significant Events – 2012Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012APRIL

OOCL  and  the  Port  of  Long  Beach 
signed  an  agreement  for  a  40  year 
lease  of  the  Middle  Harbor  container 
terminal to OOCL on 3rd April 2012.

OOCL was proud to be honoured with two 
awards  from  the  Canadian  International 
Freight  Forwarders  Association  in  the 
categories  of  “e-Business”  and  “Region 
Carrier of the Year”.

O O CL  Br isbane,  O O CL  Hamburg, 
OOCL  Rotterdam,  and  OOCL  Tokyo 
were  presented  with  the  “Hong  Kong 
Voluntary  Observing  Ship  Awards”  by  the 
Hong  Kong  Observatory  to  recognise 
the  vessel’s  important  contributions  to 
providing  marine  climatological  data 
needed to help identify prevailing weather 
conditions  for  preparing  forecasts  and 
warnings to the maritime community.

OOCL  was  recognised  as  a  “Top  Carrier 
2012”  by  US  agriculture  and  forest 
product  exporters  and  importers  from 
all  over  the  world  in  the  US  Agriculture 
Transportation Coalition Annual Survey.

JUlY

Mr.  Andy  Tung,  previously  the 
Chief Operating Officer of OOCL, 
succeeded  Mr.  Philip  Chow  as  the 
new Chief Executive Officer of the 
company effective 1st July 2012.

American  Bureau  of  Shipping  (ABS) 
Consulting,  using  the  internationally 
recognised  and  accepted  Clean  Cargo 
Working Group verification standard.

The  first  annual  Sustainability  Report 
was  launched,  signifying  an  important 
milestone  in  the  Group’s  sustainable 
development agenda and demonstrating 
its  long-term  commitment  to  corporate 
s u s t a i n a b i l i t y,   t r a n s p a r e n c y   a n d 
accountability.

MAY

The  grand  opening  of  OOCL 
(Mexico)  SA  was  held  in  Jardines 
en  la  Montana  (Garden  of  the 
Mountain),  Mexico  City  on  11th 
May 2012.

A  commemorative  Golden  Pile 
event  was  held  by  OOCL  and  the 
Port  of  Long  Beach  to  celebrate 
the  kick  off  of  the  Middle  Harbor 
Redevelopment  Project  in  Long 
Beach on 14th May 2012.

JUNE

O O C L   s u c c e s s f u l l y   r e c e i v e d 
certification  on  the  accurac y  and 
transparency  of  its  environmental  data 
disclosure in an audit conducted by the 

4

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Significant Events – 2012aUGUSt

SepteMBer

oCtoBer

O O I L   a n d   i t s   s u b s i d i a r i e s 
announced  a  profit  attributable  to 
equity  holders  of  US$116.8  million 
f o r   t h e   s i x - m o nt h   p e r i o d   e n d e d 
30th June 2012.

OOCL  Logistics  entered  into  a  business 
partnership  with  one  of  the  world’s 
leading  manufacturers  of  high-tech 
materials, Bayer MaterialScience China, to 
provide  them  with  supply  chain  logistics 
management  services  which  include 
improving their operational efficiency.

O O C L   i n t r o d u c e d   a   n e w 
s e r v i c e   t o   t h e   I n t r a - A s i a 
network,  the  KTX5,  as  part 
of  the  KTX  Suite.  The  KTX5 
p r o v i d e s   a   c o mp r e h e n s i v e 
s u p p l e m e n t   t o   i t s   s e r v i c e 
network  in  the  KTX  Suite  by 
covering  Taiwan,  Hong  Kong, 
Xiamen and Japan.

O O C L  i nt ro du c e d  a  n e w  s e r v i c e 

to  the  Intra-Europ e  network,  the 

S can  B altic  Express  3  (SBX3),  as 

par t  of  t he  SBX  suite.  The  SBX3 

complements  the  Baltic  network  by 

offering  a  comprehensive  coverage 

between  Belgium,  the  Netherlands, 

Poland,  Russia,  Lithuania,  Finland 

and Sweden.

OOCL  won  the  “Container  Line  of  the 

Year”  award  in  the  Gujarat-Far  East 

trade  lane,  the  first  time  that  OOCL 

has  won  such  an  award  from  the  Daily 

Shipping Times in India.

NoVeMBer

OOCL  was  honoured  in  receiving  the 

“Liner  Trade  Award  for  Australia  – 

North  East  Asia”  and  “Environmental 

Transport  Award”  at  the  Lloyd’s  List 

Au strali a  S hipping  and  Mar itime 

Industr y  Awards  ceremony.  OOCL 

also  came  highly  commended  in  the 

category of “Liner Trade for Australia – 

Europe.”

The  G6  Alliance  announced  their 

commit ment  to  t he  S candinavian 

market  by  offering  a  dedicated  shuttle 

service  from  Germany  to  Gothenburg 

in Sweden.

DeCeMBer

OOCL  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal 

achieved  a  monumental  increase  in 

throughput of 1.3 million TEU in 2012, 

a record growth rate of 24.7%.

5

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Significant Events – 2012Chairman’s letter

  “OOIL is pleased to 
report a profit despite 
the very difficult 
operating environment.”

Tung Chee Chen
Chairman and CEO

66

Orient Overseas (International) Limited  Annual Report 2012

Chairman’s LetterOrient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Chairman’s letter

While  2012  was  a  profitable  year  for  the  Group, 
the container transportation market continued to 
be challenging as the industry struggled to absorb 
substantial new-build vessel capacity while facing 
ongoing weak demand growth. Freight rates were 
particularly  low  at  the  start  of  the  year  but  did 
recover over the first half and into the second half 
of 2012. During that period the industry was able 
to absorb the new capacity being delivered, but by 
the fourth quarter, the further deterioration in the 
Eurozone economies and the muted growth in the 
United  States  saw  a  deterioration  in  both  freight 
rates  and  load  factors  as  excess  capacity  chased 
inadequate  demand,  resulting  in  a  disappointing 
end to the year.

Nevertheless,  I  am  pleased  to  report  that  Orient 
Overseas (International) Limited and its subsidiaries 
(the  “Group”)  has  been  profitable  for  the  year, 
recording  a  profit  attributable  to  shareholders  for 
2012  of  US$296.4  million,  compared  to  a  profit  of 
US$181.6 million in 2011.

The  2012  full  year  profit  includes  the  profit  of 
US$43.7 million in relation to our investment in Hui 
Xian Holdings, and losses and charges relating to the 
disposal  of  two  older  5,500  TEU  vessels  of  US$4.1 
million, both of which were booked in the first half 
of the year.

Earnings  per  ordinary  share  in  2012  were  US47.3 
cents,  whereas  earnings  per  ordinary  share  in  2011 
were US29.0 cents.

Having considered the likely operating environment 
and  financial  market  conditions  over  the  medium 
term,  the  Board  of  Directors  recommends  the 
payment  of  a  final  ordinary  dividend  of  US7.18 
cents (HK$0.56) per share to shareholders for 2012. 
Combined  with  the  2012  interim  dividend,  this 
represents  a  total  ordinary  dividend  payout  of  25% 
of the profit attributable to shareholders for 2012.

After a strong first half performance and a pleasing 
third-quarter,  OOCL’s  operating  profitability  was 
impacted by the downwards pressure on freight rates 
during  the  last  quarter  of  the  year.  Competitive 
pressure was most intense on the Asia-Europe trade 
as  carriers  sought  to  maintain  volumes  despite  a 
reduction in trade levels.

There  was  some  partial  offset  to  this  pressure  with 
bunker fuel prices coming down from the very high 
levels  experienced  in  the  first  half  of  the  year  and 
remaining stable through and past the year end.

The year ahead looks as though it will be as difficult as 
2012. More than other industries, container shipping 
is affected by global economic conditions impacting 
trade  volumes  and  we  expect  a  further  protracted 
period  of  low  economic  growth  to  continue  after 
the  past  four  years  of  economic  downturn.  While 
economic  conditions  in  the  United  States  are 
improving,  the  pace  of  economic  recovery  remains 
slow and consumer demand continues to be muted. 
Prolonged deflation in Europe has caused a decline 
in imports from Asia, and with Eurozone economies 
continuing to struggle, there is a possibility of further 
contraction before recovery occurs.

Recently  higher  employment  levels  in  the  US 
manufacturing  sector  suggests  that  there  may  be  a 
trend  of  “re-shoring”  of  production  in  the  United 
States.  Combined  with  the  increasing  domestic 
consumer  market  in  China,  this  may  see  Chinese 
manufacturers  focusing  further  on  their  own 
domestic  markets,  resulting  in  a  slowdown  China’s 
export growth rates.

With a further increase in new build vessel capacity 
delivering in 2013, competition and resultant pressure 
on  freight  rates  will  continue  to  be  intense.  The 
industry’s ability to further absorb additional capacity 
are being tested and there are risks to service levels 
given the reduced number of loops being run on the 
major trade lanes.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited  Annual Report 2012

7

Chairman’s LetterThe  financial  performance  of  the  industry  as  a 
whole  has  been  poor  over  the  last  two  years  as 
a  result  of  intense  competition  and  rate  cuts.  In 
addition to the difficult trading conditions due to 
weak underlying demand growth, the industry was 
also  affected  by  the  misguided  practice  of  some 
operators to immediately achieve high utilisation 
levels  for  newly-delivered  vessels,  essentially 
buying volume by driving down market rates.

Overall,  the  industry  must  exercise  greater 
discipline  in  its  strategic,  commercial  and 
operational  practices  to  restore  industry-wide 
profitability  in  2013.  That  this  is  achievable 
was  demonstrated  last  year,  with  freight  rates 
improving substantially despite the difficult supply 
conditions as carriers individually found the right 
balance of deployed capacity to meet demand, and 
at the same time achieving revenue growth while 
controlling operating costs. While we are starting 
to  see  some  limited  rationalisation  within  the 
industry,  the  broader  industry  needs  to  stabilise 
and  earn  a  consistent  and  appropriate  return  to 
shareholders  despite  periods  of  slower  demand 
growth  and  of  excess  capacity.  In  addition  to 
realising  the  cost  efficiencies  that  come  as  the 
industry  re-fleets  with  larger,  more  fuel  efficient 
vessels,  revenue  per  unit  needs  to  improve  to 
produce appropriate operating margins.

The  key  elements  in  OOCL’s  ability  to  generate 
and  preserve  its  business  value  over  the  longer 
term are in managing capital allocation, capacity 
management,  scale  of  operation  through  alliance 
membership,  cost  control,  customer  services 
through  our  integrated  operating  system,  and 
sound financial management.

Flexibility  in  our  operating  model  to  be  able  to 
adjust  capacity  to  actual  demand  levels  remains 
a  key  focus  for  OOCL  in  2013  as  we  absorb  our 
new 13,200 TEU vessels. These vessels, delivering 
in  2013  and  2014,  will  further  enhance  OOCL’s 
competitive  cost  base  as  well  as  helping  us  to 
reduce emissions consistent with our focus on and 
promotion of environmental protection.

We continue strive to achieve above average growth, 
gaining  volume  not  through  pricing  but  through 
superior  customer  focus  and  service.  This  means 
maintaining  an  appropriate  network,  transit  times, 
and provision of information and responsiveness to 
grow  our  preferred  long-term  customer  base.  The 
company  continues  to  focus  on  improving  vessel 
deployment flexibility, working within the G6 and the 
Grand  Alliance,  and  adjusting  deployment  to  meet 
demand  to  ensure  customer  needs  are  met  without 
under-utilising capacity.

The  Group’s  focus  on  information  technology 
based  products  and  services  for  customers,  and 
the  enhanced  services  provided  through  both 
OOCL  Liner  and  OOCL  Logistics  remain  key  to 
our future success.

Our  logistics  business  continues  to  build  and 
strengthen  and  is  an  important  area  element  in 
continuing  to  attract  and  hold  customers  through 
high quality service levels. The business has gained 
the experience and credentials within the industry to 
be a true 3PL provider, understanding the dynamics 
of  our  customers.  Its  focus  on  domestic  logistics 
as  the  platform  for  accelerated  organic  growth  is 
proving successful and its improving profitability is 
providing an increasingly meaningful contribution to 
the performance of our Group.

8

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Chairman’s Letter“The OOIL Group remains 
well capitalised, financially 
strong and operationally robust.”

Our ongoing investment in Information Technology 
continues  to  gives  us  a  state  of  the  art  information 
system  for  the  business  management  and  provision 
of  services  to  customers.  Our  investment  in  IT 
gives  us  a  significant  competitive  advantage  by 
supporting  employees  with  the  right  skills  and 
capabilities to make data-driven decisions to provide 
superior service to customers. Our IT Division also 
continues  to  develop  various  business  models  such 
as CargoSmart which showed good growth in 2012 
and  is  developing  as  another  pillar  of  the  Group’s 
performance.

The  OOIL  group  remains  financially  strong  and 
operationally robust. We have the strength to survive 
through  the  downturns  while  continuing  to  grow 
the  business  and  prosper  through  the  downturns. 
OOCL is well placed for the future with its alliance 
memberships  and  its  continued  investment  for 
growth.  The  Group  is  well  capitalised  and  has 
sufficient liquidity and access to funding to meet its 
future needs. Our outstanding staff continue to be a 
key element of our superior performance and success, 
and  through  their  continued  efforts,  together  with 
our strong financial position, we are confident of our 
ability to continuing growing and meeting our goals.

C C tung
Chairman
Hong Kong, 6th March 2013

9

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Chairman’s Letteroperations review

“Flexibility in our 
operating model to be 
able to adjust capacity 
to actual demand levels 
remains a key focus for 
OOCL in 2013.”

10

Operations ReviewOrient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012CoNtaiNer traNSport aND loGiStiCS

Container  liner  operators  have  not  recovered  from  the  heavy 
losses  in  2009  during  the  global  financial  crisis.  Even  with  a 
strong recovery in 2010, weak rate levels in 2011 push carriers 
to  more  financial  losses.  From  the  impact  of  new  build  vessel 
deliveries  and  high  bunker  prices,  the  first  quarter  of  2012 
proved  to  be  a  big  challenge  for  the  industry.  By  the  second 
quarter, carriers resolved to better match capacity with the lower 
demand  levels.  Subsequently  freight  rates  started  to  improve 
across a number of trade lanes to more sustainable levels.

Average freight rates reached the high point in August but idled 
vessel capacity built up due to the continuing deliveries of new 
builds  began  to  see  their  re-deployment  in  the  trade.  Later, 
freight rates began to fall in the Asia-Europe trade in October.

For  most  of  the  year,  many  carriers  in  general  tried  to  reduce 
the impact from the injection of capacity brought on by the new 
builds.  Extra  ships  were  put  into  service  loops  and  leveraged 
on  slow  steaming,  which  also  helped  carriers  reduce  fuel 
consumption and thus lowering environmental emissions. Idled 
capacity increased 35% throughout the year to 809,000 TEU at 
the end of 2012. In addition, ships of relatively young age were 
taken  to  the  scrap  yards.  In  2012,  352,000  TEU  of  ships  at  an 
average  of  24  years  old  were  scraped,  which  is  only  second  in 
record to 2009 when 381,000 TEU of ships were scraped at an 
average age of 27 years.

There  was  more  carrier  cooperation  in  the  form  of  consortia 
and alliances in 2012 to match the network size and scope of the 
mega carriers. The Grand Alliance, of which OOCL is a member, 
and the New World Alliance, together formed the G6 Alliance to 
serve the Asia-Europe trade which improved market coverage, 
provided more sailing frequency, and deployed efficient vessels. 
The G6 Alliance enabled the partners to reduce the number of 
service loops while increasing the size of vessels deployed, and 
thus reduce operating costs. The members of the G6 Alliance will 
be  expanding  their cooperation  to the Asia-to-North America 
East Coast trade in 2013.

ooCl liner

Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4

Total

In  the  Australasia  trade,  MISC  withdrew  ships  from  the  AAA 
consortium  in  the  first  quarter  and  finally  terminated  their 
participation in the liner service. OOCL and the other remaining 
AAA  consortium  partners  took  over  the  ship  slots  which 
were  previously  provided  by  MISC  in  order  to  maintain  the 
service  structure.  By  stepping  into  the  void  created  by  MISC’s 
withdrawal,  OOCL  has  further  established  its  position  as  one 
of the major carrier in the South East Asia to Australia trade.

The global supply chain industry was interrupted in 2011 from 
the Tsunami in Japan and extended heavy flooding in Thailand. 
2012 also experienced the super Hurricane Sandy which hit the 
US east coast in late October and caused the container terminals 
in New York to close down for eight days. It took the terminals 
two months to clear the backlog and the same length of time for 
ships to recover from schedule challenges.

OOCL’s  liftings  increased  3.7%  year-on-year.  Global  trade 
demand  growth  slowed  in  the  second  half,  mainly  due  to 
depressed  imports  to  North  Europe  and  the  Mediterranean 
which affected our Asia-Europe and Trans-Atlantic trades. Trade 
growth in Trans-Pacific from Asia was a modest 2%, and imports 
to Australasia from North Asia was flat. Forecast on trade growth 
in 2013 will be low but recovery is expected in some trades.

teU

5.4%
6.7%
3.4%
(0.7%)

3.7%

Growth in 2012
rev

rev/teU

(0.9%)
10.6%
10.9%
5.6%

6.7%

(6.0%)
3.7%
7.2%
6.4%

2.9%

11

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Operations Review  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trade

Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia/Australasia

Total

liftiNG (’000 teU)

reVeNUe (US$ million)

2012

1,253
885
408
2,671

5,217

2011

1,230
863
392
2,548

5,033

Var

1.9%
2.5%
4.1%
4.8%

3.7%

2012

1,989
1,158
660
2,092

5,899

2011

1,896
1,064
667
1,902

5,529

Var

4.9%
8.8%
(1.0%)
10.0%

6.7%

trans-pacific  –  The  depressed  rate  level  in  early  2012  set  the 
poor  base  line  for  the  eastbound  contract  negotiation.  Many 
contracts were concluded at revenue levels that did not cover full 
costs. Rate level for the spot market improved from the second 
quarter, but average revenue remained relatively low as for a large 
portion of business was already locked in long-term contracts. 
Slow growth of the US exports drove the westbound leg toward 
very low and unprofitable rate levels.

trans-atlantic  –  Capacity  was  reduced  by  the  suspension  of 
the AES peak season loop in the second half of the year, then a 
reduction  in  slot  purchase  for  the  US  Gulf  and  Mexico  service. 
The  unusual  low  water  level  in  the  St.  Lawrence  River  also  put 
constrain on loadable capacity for the Canadian Gateway service. 
The westbound trade still managed to achieve lifting growth of 
7.5%. Our eastbound lifting growth was only 1% which was better 
than the market which contracted by 5%.

asia-europe – The Grand Alliance and the New World Alliance 
formed  the  G6  Alliance  and  implemented  joint  services  from 
March which covered trade lanes between Asia and North Europe, 
Mediterranean  and  Black  Sea  which  provided  better  market 
coverage.  Furthermore  OOCL  was  able  to  reduce  capacity  to 
match the reduced market demand for North Europe. The overall 
capacity in this trade route was around the same level as compared 
to  2011  with  higher  capacity  deployment  in  the  new  Black  Sea 
service and the increased involvement in the India-Europe service. 
After a succession of revenue improvements, the westbound rate 
level  increased  by  US$800/TEU  by  May  when  compared  to  the 
beginning  of  the  year,  but  slowly  eroded  in  the  following  few 
months and accelerated towards the fell last quarter.

intra-asia and australasia – The Intra-Asia market was impacted 
by the cascading of vessels from other deep sea trades when they 
received new and larger vessels. The industrial capacity utilisation 
rate  deteriorated  which  put  rates  under  pressure.  Following  the 
successful rate restoration in the Asia-Europe trade, rates for Middle 
East  and  the  Indian  Sub-Continent  also  briefly  improved  during 
the middle of the year. The short sea trade slowed down during the 
fourth quarter when the territorial dispute between Japan and China 
impacted on this important trade lane. The overcapacity built up 
during 2011 in the Australasia sector was not matched with trade 
volume growth from North East Asia. OOCL’s capacity in this trade 
lane was able to increase by taking over the departed MISC’s AAA 
consortium slots and our expansion in the New Zealand trade.

“Despite a protracted period of low 
economic growth, OOCL is well placed for 
the future with its alliance memberships 
and its continued investment for growth.”

12

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Operations Review  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SHip operatioNS

As at 31st December 2012, the OOCL fleet composition was as 
follows:

fleet

No. of Vessels

teU Capacity

Owned/Long Term Chartered/
Operating Lease
Short Term Chartered

Operating Capacity

50
48

98

303,340
148,906

452,246

In 2012, no new build vessels were delivered, and no new vessel 
orders were placed. During the year, OOCL exercised option 
to  purchase  one  12-year  old  5,560  TEU  vessel  previously 
operated  under  long-term  charter,  and  sold  out  two  16-year 
old 5,344 TEU vessels and then time-chartered them back for 
a 3-year period.

As of the end of 2012, OOCL fleet consists of 44 owned vessels 
with  an  average  age  of  6.1  years  and  an  average  size  of  6,128 
TEU. OOCL has one of the most efficient and modern fleets in 
the container industry.

Bunker Saving

In view of the rising fuel price during 2012, we focused intensely 
on  bunker  and  engine  lubricant  oil  saving  programs.  These 
programs  included  initiatives  to  adopt  technology,  optimal 
routing,  continuously  optimised  speeds,  minimum  ballast, 
optimal trim, and ensuring close communication between ship 
and  shore  colleagues  regarding  berthing  arrangements  as  well 
as terminal productivity. The key contributor to the success of 
these  programs  has  been  the  excellent  teamwork  via  seamless 
coordination  between  our  crew,  regions,  service  centres  and 
corporate departments.

environmental protection

With  an  environmental-friendly  fleet  of  ships,  we  are  in  full 
compliance with the international, national and local emission 

control  regulations.  In  2012,  we  achieved  an  average  sulphur 
emission  content  of  2.6%,  a  figure  that  was  well  below  the 
International Maritime Organization (IMO) prescribed standard 
of  3.5%.  The  use  of  cleaner  fuel  with  lower  sulphur  content 
had  been  applied  in  the  Sulphur  Emission  Control  Areas 
(SECA)  including  the  North  Sea,  English  Channel,  Baltic  Sea, 
and  200  nautical  miles  within  the  US  coastline.  All  the  new 
vessels  delivered  since  2011  have  been  designed  with  AMP 
(Alternative  Maritime  Power)  systems  onboard  for  onshore 
electric power connections to help improve the environment in 
our communities.

In addition to regulatory compliance, we have been participating 
in various voluntary programs including the Green Flag Program 
at the Port of Long Beach, Vessel Speed Reduction Program at 
the Port of Los Angeles, At-Berth Clean (ABC) Fuels Program at 
the Port of Seattle, and the Fair Winds Charter and Port Facilities 
& Light Dues Incentive Scheme in Hong Kong.

Being  a  responsible  corporate  citizen,  we  have  expanded  our 
environment initiatives on shore to cover a more comprehensive 
set of office consumables since 1st January 2011.

MariNe terMiNalS

OOCL continued to operate the Long Beach Container Terminal 
in California and the Kaohsiung Container Terminal in Taiwan, 
with  a  total  throughput  of  2.0  million  TEU  in  2012.  We  also 
have a 20% interest and management participation in the Tianjin 
Port Alliance International Container Terminal Co., Ltd. and the 
Ningbo Yuandong Terminal Ltd., with a combined throughput 
of 4.1 million TEU.

Middle Harbor redevelopment project

OOCL  has  a  40-year  lease  agreement  with  the  Port  of  Long 
Beach  (POLB)  for  the  Middle  Harbor  Redevelopment  Project 

13

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Operations Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in Long Beach. This project will combine two ageing shipping 
terminals  into  one  modern  and  highly  automated  terminal  to 
improve cargo-handling efficiency and environmental friendly 
operation.

This 9-year project when completed will allow berth space for 
three 13,000 TEU vessels handling, double the existing capacity 
and  upgrade  water  and  wharfs  access  coupled  with  direct  rail 
access to intermodal cargo movement to the US inland points.

loGiStiCS

Along with the progressive growth of the logistics business, the 
revenue of the Logistics Division increased 13% in 2012 – where 
22% of the growth was from international logistics and 8% from 
domestic logistics.

During  2012,  we  have  been  gradually  extending  our  service 
network to the 2nd and 3rd tier cities in China as well as expanding 
our activities in the fast-developing countries in Asia and Europe.

Working together with our customers, we expanded our supply 
chain service into the quality control area as an integral part of 
vendor management for customers sourcing from Asia. Through 
our IT and management capabilities, we have also increased the 
sophistication of our service offerings, including providing 4PL 
solutions to the customers.

We will continue to develop the logistics business on four fronts: 
International  Supply  Chain  Management,  Domestic  Logistics, 
OceanPlus, and Cold Chain Logistics. In support of the growth, 
we  will  invest  resources  in  building  our  service  network  and 
capabilities  to  develop  OOCL  Logistics  into  one  of  the  leading 
global logistics service providers in the industry.

14

iNVeStMeNt propertY

Wall Street Plaza has been valued upwards by US$5 million as 
at 30th June 2012 to reflect an assessed market value of US$165 
million. Based on an independent valuation as at 31st December 
2012,  the  assessed  market  value  of  the  property  remains  at 
US$165  million.  The  accumulated  value  gain  for  the  year  has 
been  net  off  with  a  capital  expenditure  of  US$4.5  million 
incurred in the second half of 2012. As a result, the net valuation 
gain for the entire year is US$0.5 million.

As  at  31st  December  2011,  Wall  Street  Plaza  was  valued  at 
US$160 million with a revaluation gain of US$5 million in 2011.

MaJor CUStoMerS aND SUpplierS

Approximately  9.8%  and  25.1%  of  the  Group’s  total 
expenditure  on  purchases  of  goods  and  services  for  the 
year are attributable to the largest supplier and five largest 
suppliers respectively.

Approximately 1.5% and 4.7% of the Group’s total reported 
revenues for the year are attributable to the largest customer 
and five largest customers respectively.

The Group has entered into slot sharing arrangements with other 
container shipping companies. The receipts and payments from 
slot sharing arrangements have not been included in determining 
the major customers and suppliers since it would be misleading 
to do so as the receipts and payments are in respect of sharing 
arrangements for the utilisation of vessel space.

No director or any of his associates holds any equity interest 
in the suppliers or customers included above.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Operations Review“Overall, the industry 
must exercise greater 
discipline in its 
strategic, commercial 
and operational 
practices to restore 
industry-wide 
profitability in 2013.”

15

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Operations ReviewThe  Group  prides  itself  upon  being  a  responsible  corporate 
citizen and it employs the highest standards of business ethics 
in  all  that  it  does.  Headed  by  a  senior  management  Steering 
Committee and a Global Security, Safety and Environment Care 
Officer, the Group embraces the core values of Corporate Social 
Responsibility at all levels.

The Group places the utmost importance on environmental care 
and community support. Despite the current difficult economic 
environment, we must continue to address the long-term threat 
of  climate  change.  We  strive  to  play  our  part  in  tackling  this 
global  problem  through  membership  of  organisations  such  as 
the  Business  Environment  Council,  the  Clean  Cargo  Working 
Group and the World Wildlife Fund. Throughout the year, the 
Group  has  won  awards  and  accolades  for  its  environmental 
performance,  and  OOIL  Group  employees  around  the  world 
have been actively supporting their local communities through 
various environmental initiatives.

environmental Care

The Group recognises that businesses must take responsibility 
for  their  industry’s  effects  on  the  environment.  Our  company 
is  dedicated  to  meeting  the  needs  of  the  present  without 
compromising  those  of  the  future.  We  encourage  sustainable 
economic development through innovative environmental care 
measures  and  believe  that  by  taking  a  proactive  role  in  caring 
for the environment, we can help minimise our carbon footprint, 
improve air quality and make the world a better place to live for 
ourselves and future generations.

We  actively  participate  in  many  green  programs  and  have 
received numerous awards and recognition for our achievements 
and quality practices, including:

The  Safety,  Quality  and  Environmental  (SQE)  Management 
System  Certificate  –  OOCL  was  the  first  container  shipping 
line  in  the  world  to  have  achieved  the  SQE  certification 
which  consolidates  the  ISM-Code,  ISO  9001  and  ISO  14001 
requirements.

16

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate ResponsibilityHong Kong Voluntary Observing Ship Gold Awards – On 8th 
June 2012, OOCL was presented with four Hong Kong Voluntary 
Observing  Ship  Gold  Awards  by  the  Hong  Kong  Observatory 
(HKO)  to  recognise  our  vessel’s  important  contributions  to 
providing  marine  climatological  data  needed  to  help  identify 
prevailing  weather  conditions  for  preparing  forecasts  and 
warnings  to  the  maritime  community.  As  a  Hong  Kong-based 
company,  joining  the  Hong  Kong  Voluntary  Observing  Ships 
program is a part of OOCL’s commitment to contributing back 
to the community.

At-Berth Clean Fuels (ABC) Vessel Incentive Program – OOCL 
has been an active participant in this voluntary green initiative 
offered  by  the  Port  of  Seattle  when  it  was  first  introduced  in 
2009.  Through  this  program,  shipping  and  cruise  lines  are 
encouraged  to  use  low-sulphur  fuel  (less  than  0.5%  sulphur 
content)  when  at  berth.  Since  the  inception  of  the  program, 
nearly  500  metric  tons  of  sulphur  dioxide  (SOx)  has  been 
reduced in the local environment. The switch to lower sulphur 
fuel is estimated to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions and diesel 
particulate matter by more than 80 percent.

Qualship  21  –  Offered  by  the  US  Coast  Guard,  this  program 
recognises high-quality ships for their excellent safety and anti-
pollution standards and encourages quality operations. Most of 
OOCL’s  vessels  calling  the  US  have  already  been  Qualship  21 
certified since 2004.

EcoAction Program for Shipping – In 2012, OOCL joined the 
Metro Port of Vancouver’s EcoAction Program for Shipping, a 
green initiative encouraging vessels that use low sulphur fuel or 
employ good environmental practices.

Environmental Data Verification – In May 2012, OOCL successfully 
received  certification  on  the  accuracy  and  transparency  of  our 
environmental data disclosure which reflects our commitment to a 
high standard of data integrity and information management. The 
audit was conducted by The American Bureau of Shipping (ABS) 
Consulting, a US based consultancy firm, using the internationally 
recognised  and  accepted  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  (CCWG) 
verification standard to check for a vessel’s carbon dioxide (CO2) 
and SOx emissions.

Vessel Speed Reduction Programs – Each year, OOCL has been 
fully compliant to reducing vessel speed when entering within 
both 20 and 40 nautical miles of the Port of Long Beach and Port 
of Los Angeles harbors. Our efforts have effectively contributed 
to improving the air quality by reducing emissions such as smog-
forming  nitrogen  oxides  (NOx),  diesel  particulate  matter  and 
greenhouse gases. Port officials estimate that if all vessels comply 
with  the  program,  the  amount  of  NOx  produced  by  container 
ships would be reduced by nearly 550 tons a year.

Ballast  Water  Management  Program  –  All  container  ships 
discharge  ballast  water,  which  can  contain  organisms  that  are 
harmful  to  the  environment.  We  have  a  policy  of  exchanging 
ballast  water  only  in  the  open  sea  (200  nautical  miles  away 
from the nearest coastline) and aim to achieve zero ballast water 
exchange when berthed at the port.

Environmental  Transport  Award  –  In  winning  the  Lloyd’s 
List  Australia  Environmental  Transport  Award,  we  were 
recognised  for  our  initiatives  in  environmentally  enhanced 
operating  procedures  such  as  management  and  monitoring 
systems to measure targets in environmental goals or for general 
environmental initiatives either in the community or with other 
industry stakeholders.

Green  Award  2012  –  OOCL  was  presented  with  the  ‘Green 
Award’  by  the  Marine  Department  of  the  Hong  Kong  SAR 
Government  and  Hong  Kong  Shipowners  Association  in 
recognising  our  consistent  effort  and  dedication  to  taking  a 
green  approach  in  our  business.  This  is  the  third  consecutive 
year that OOCL has received this recognition and is a testimony 
that OOCL has consistently achieved tangible results in reducing 
emissions and protecting the environment. The Green Award is 
an important recognition and encouragement to the industry for 
taking responsibility in its effects on the environment.

Green  Employer  Awards  –  OOCL  and  OOCL  Logistics  was 
awarded  Green  Employers  for  the  year  2011-2012  by  the 
Hong  Kong  Inland  Revenue  Department  of  the  Hong  Kong 
SAR  Government  to  recognise  our  employee’s  support  of  the 
government’s  e-services  and  contribution  to  environmental 
protection by e-filing their tax returns.

Hang  Seng  Corporate  Sustainability  Index  –  The  Group  is 
a  founding  constituent  of,  as  well  as  listed  in  the  Hang  Seng 
Corporate Sustainability Index since its establishment in 2010. 
Only the top 30 companies are listed in the Index and they are 
recognised to have received the highest scores among all others 
on  aspects  including  environmental  care,  social  impact,  and 
corporate  governance.  Since  the  Index’s  inception,  we  remain 
a  proud  member  to  have  been  rated  by  the  RepuTex  Annual 
Review  with  an  “A+”  for  our  overall  corporate  sustainability 
performance.

17

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate ResponsibilityIn  December  2012,  the  Det  Norske  Veritas  (DNV)  also 
successfully  verified  all  of  our  environmental  data  from  our 
vessels  by  using  the  Clean  Shipping  Index  (CSI)  verification 
standard.

The  Group  is  committed  to  reducing  emissions,  promoting 
environmental  care  and  conserving  natural  resources.  We  do 
this in all areas of our business – on land and at sea – from our 
vessels, to our terminals, offices and in our containers.

OOCL  Vessels  –  The  best  way  to  reduce  harmful  emissions  in 
the shipping industry is to reduce the consumption of fuel. Since 
2001,  OOCL  has  implemented  a  fuel  saving  program  including 
weather routing systems, slow steaming (addition of extra vessels 
on  service  loops  and  travelling  at  slower  speeds),  minimising 
ballast water to help achieve a lighter vessel load, and achieving 
better  trim  of  ship  draughts  by  good  stowage,  thereby  burning 
less  fuel.  By  taking  these  measures,  we  have  reduced  our  CO2 
emissions by more than 30% since 2004. In addition to reducing 
our emissions, we are able to help our customers achieve a lower 
carbon footprint in their supply chains.

Since 2000, all our vessels have been installed with environment-
friendly  NOx-controlled  propulsive  engines  while  advanced 
slide fuel injection valves are also adopted to help reduce NOx 
emissions by 30%.

In the European Union (EU), we are fully compliant to the SOx 
Emissions  Control  Area’s  (SECA)  requirement  of  using  1.0% 
sulphur  content  fuel  as  required  by  the  EU  and  International 
Maritime  Organization  (IMO),  and  0.1%  sulphur  content  for 
designated EU ports. OOCL operated vessels also consume fuel 
with sulphur content of 1% or lower in the North American ECA 
when  regulation  took  effect  on  1st  August  2012.  In  addition, 
when sailing within 24 nautical miles of the California Baseline 
and  at  berth,  our  vessels  comply  with  the  0.5%  (for  marine 
diesel  oil)  or  1.0%  (for  marine  gasoline  oil)  sulphur  content 
requirements to improve the environment in the community.

Moreover, OOCL is one of the leading carriers that voluntarily 
signed on to the Fair Winds Charter which encourages all vessels 
to use fuel of 0.5% sulphur content or less when berthed in Hong 
Kong. This two-year charter, which started on 1st January 2011, 
also  urges  the  Hong  Kong  SAR  Government  and  government 
authorities in the Pearl River Delta to introduce regulation on 
the use of low sulphur fuel in order to create a level playing field 
for all compliers.

OOCL vessels also ensure that the sulphur content of our fuel 
is well below the IMO prescribed standard of 3.5% when sailing 
in  the  high  seas.  In  2012,  OOCL  achieved  an  average  sulphur 
content of 2.6%.

All of OOCL’s new buildings currently under construction are 
installed with Alternative Maritime Power (AMP) Systems, also 
known as “Cold Ironing”, which allows the vessel to use shore-

18

supplied electricity instead of burning fuel when at berth.

OOIL  Offices  –  Our  focus  is  to  create  and  maintain  a 
“paperless  office”  environment  by  eliminating  the  use  of  faxes 
and  unnecessary  paper  documents.  As  a  business  which  has 
traditionally  relied  on  paper  documentation  with  customers, 
such as bills of lading and invoices, we have successfully taken 
innovative measures to effectively reduce our paper consumption 
since 2006.

We have implemented a “reduce, re-use and recycle” campaign 
in  all  our  offices  around  the  world,  encouraging  employees  to 
switch off computers after work, powering off copiers and lights 
after use, and to install energy-saving office equipment, such as 
energy-efficient light bulbs. We also have mandatory training for 
all staff in safety, security and environmental issues, and organise 
OOCL Green Week every July in offices around the world.

OOCL Terminals – OOCL’s container terminal in Long Beach 
(LBCT LLC) uses “Regen” units for rubber-tired gantry (RTG) 
cranes in the Port of Long Beach. The systems, which capture, 
store and supply electrical energy during the crane’s operation, 
can  help  cut  fuel  consumption  by  25%,  and  reduce  diesel 
emissions by more than half.

In  2005,  our  Kaohsiung  Terminal  in  Taiwan  (KAOCT)  had 
converted  its  entire  container  yard  to  a  ‘green’  enterprise  by 
replacing  its  straddle  carriers  operation  with  electric  rail-
mounted  gantry  cranes  (RMGs)  to  improve  energy  and 
operational  efficiencies.  Currently,  there  are  a  total  of  18 
electrically powered RMGs in the terminal on a fixed-rail system 
and these gantry cranes are emission-free, quiet, and provide a 
much  safer  working  environment  at  the  port.  The  equipment 
not  only  helped  improve  energy  efficiency  but  also  terminal 
efficiency  as  KAOCT’s  shipside  productivity  was  increased  by 
13.3% from 2005 to 2012. In August 2012, we replaced the last 
two sets of 16-row gantry cranes with 22-row ones to enhance 
the container handling performance by 7%. Since then, this has 
enabled KAOCT to effectively handle more vessels at berth. The 
higher productivity level helped shorten vessel berthing time for 
bunker savings thus reducing emissions.

Moreover, KAOCT also minimised the use of Side-Pickers and 
utilise the electric-powered rail mounted gantry cranes to handle 
empty containers at the terminal to improve energy efficiency. 
In  2012,  over  200  set  of  the  lighting  systems  in  the  terminal 
office were replaced by energy efficient LED technology, which 
achieved  a  59%  saving  of  lighting  electricity.  When  compared 
to 2007, the terminal reduced diesel consumption by about 39% 
last year.

Sustainable  Procurement  Policy  –  The  Group  is  dedicated 
to  promoting  sustainable  practices  into  our  supply  chain. 
Our  Corporate  Sustainable  Procurement  Policy  has  been 
implemented in every aspect of our business and at every stage 
of the supply chain.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate ResponsibilityThe Group’s Corporate Security Policy and internal guidelines 
comply  with  the  US  Customs-Trade  Partnership  Against 
Terrorism  (C-TPAT)  initiative,  EU  Authorized  Economic 
Operator  (AEO)  Program,  and  we  actively  work  with  various 
governments and authorities around the world to counter any act 
that would impinge upon maritime or cargo security. Under our 
policy, we have internal security checks to all of its holdings and 
our security profile has been validated by the US Customs and 
Border Protection agency through physical checks of the offices 
and  facilities  of  the  Group  including  terminals,  warehouses, 
depots and vessels.

Our  company  meets  the  International  Ship  and  Port  Facility 
Security Code (ISPS Code), which ensures that security threats 
are detected and assessed and preventive measures are in place 
on  our  vessels  and  at  our  port  facilities.  A  designated  officer 
on each ship and at each port facility reports to the Company 
Security  Officer  who  oversees  the  security  plans,  drills  and 
training. With this in place, all our vessels continue to have an 
exemplary record containing zero breaches of security and totally 
clean  detention  records.  In  addition,  to  provide  world-class 
quality and secure information to customers and partners, our 
Global  Data  Centre  has  also  achieved  and  maintained  BS7799 
certification.

OOCL  has  been  certified  as  a  “Partners  in  Protection”  (PIP) 
carrier by the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) Partners 
in  Protection.  It  is  a  voluntary  program  established  by  the 
CBSA  to  enhance  border  security,  combat  organised  crime 
and  terrorism,  detect  and  prevent  contraband  smuggling,  and 
increase  awareness  of  issues  to  secure  the  flow  of  legitimate 
goods and travelers across the US-Canadian border.

OOCL  applies  anti-piracy  measures  before  our  vessels  transit 
through  High  Risk  Areas  (HRA).  One  of  the  key  measures  is 
to maintain a 24-hour, 360-degree anti-piracy visual and radar 
watch and to deploy additional watch-keepers at the bridge and 
on  deck  while  transiting  the  HRA  to  watch  out  for  suspected 
pirate  vessels.  Physical  measures  are  also  utilised  onboard, 
such as barbed wires, spikes, and night vision binoculars. Close 
communication  is  always  maintained  between  ships  and  our 
Fleet  Management  Department  (FMD)  office.  FMD’s  24-hour 
emergency hotline is always on standby mode in the case of any 
emergency.

Community and education

As a responsible corporate citizen the Group recognises that the 
societies in which its employees live and work contribute greatly 
to  the  company’s  overall  success.  Care  for  these  communities 
in  which  it  operates  is  therefore  a  major  corporate  focus.  The 
Group concentrates its community efforts on charity programs 
designed  to  provide  well-rounded  youth  education,  charity 
relief  to  the  needy,  and  cultural  entertainment  to  the  whole 
community.

19

OOCL  Carbon  Calculator  –  The  OOCL  Carbon  Calculator 
is  designed  to  assist  OOCL  customers  in  measuring  the  CO2 
emissions  in  their  supply  chain.  The  scope  of  the  calculator 
spans  across  vessels,  trucks,  feeders,  barge  and  rail  with  over 
70,000  port  pairs  recorded.  OOCL  spearheaded  the  project  in 
2010, partnering with the Department of Logistics and Maritime 
Studies of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University. The Calculator 
has  been  checked  and  verified  for  its  methodology,  accuracy 
and carbon  footprint  calculations by  The American Bureau  of 
Shipping (ABS) Consulting.

OOCL Containers – Today, OOCL only uses CFC-free refrigerants 
for all of our refrigerated (reefer) containers. OOCL’s newest reefer 
containers  have  the  lowest  power  consumption  in  the  industry, 
and we install ThermoKing “EcoPower” gensets for better energy 
efficiency. All our containers have been applied with tin-free paint 
and we are starting to introduce the use of eco-friendly bamboo 
floors instead of the traditional hardwood ones.

The Group’s achievements, in many aspects, have already greatly 
exceeded legal requirements and general industry standards in 
the countries where it operates. However, as a responsible and 
committed member of the international community, the Group 
continually strives for further improvement in all aspects of its 
business.

Security

In a world where global cargo security threats always increase 
the complexities of the international trade community, OOCL 
is strongly committed to the security of our operations against 
possible compromise and to the maintenance of the highest level 
of compliance in security related areas. From our offices to ports, 
warehouses,  shore  facilities  and  onboard  our  vessels,  we  work 
with  the  responsible  authorities  to  ensure  that  every  measure 
is in place to maintain the highest commercial and operational 
security standards possible at all times, while all employees are 
educated and regularly updated through security training.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate ResponsibilityOOCL  employees  across  the  world  are  encouraged  to  give 
something back to the communities in which they live through 
charitable  activities  such  as  fundraising  and  volunteering  by 
dedicating their time and efforts to help others in need. OOCL 
assists  in  transporting  medical  diagnostic  equipment  and 
supplies  from  the  US  to  China  to  care  for  those  children  who 
need urgent treatments. In 2012, the Group donated US$117,000.

In  addition  to  financial  donations,  the  Group  also  contributes 
in  kind.  We  offer  transportation  and  logistics  support  to  send 
relief  to  the  affected  areas.  Assistance  in  the  form  of  free 
transportation is often given to a number of charitable projects. 
In  terms  of  sponsorship,  our  employees  form  volunteer  teams 
to support various charitable organisations through community 
service, fundraising and donations. Some of the areas where the 
charity  donations  were  made  by  the  Group  and  its  employees 
include:  social  services,  orphanages,  elderly  homes,  schools, 
children’s  hospitals,  cancer  research,  multiple  sclerosis,  and 
diabetes  research.  In  keeping  with  the  Group’s  long  tradition 
in  supporting  education,  the  Group,  in  partnership  with  The 
Tung Foundation, committed more than US$433,000 in 2012 to 
scholarships through The Tung OOCL Scholarship for students 
and our employees’ children.

employee information

As  a  responsible  corporate  citizen  employing  the  highest 
standards  of  business  ethics  in  all  that  it  does,  the  Group 
understands that the process begins with the well treatment of 
its employees. As a successful corporation, the Group appreciates 
that its success, growth and performance are attributable to the 
skills,  dedication  and  teamwork  of  its  employees.  It  regards 
people as its greatest asset and takes good care of them.

In the spirit of mutual respect, the Group is an equal opportunity 
employer  with  a  clearly  defined  policy,  covering  areas  such  as 
treating all employees with fairness and dignity, promoting the 
corporate culture of encouraging open and frank communication 
throughout  the  organisation,  investing  in  its  employees 
and  caring  for  their  hopes  and  aspirations  through  people-
development  programs  and  education,  as  well  as  recognising 
their efforts and achievements.

People  development  remains  a  cornerstone  of  the  corporate 
culture  and  enables  the  effective  operation  of  the  Group’s 
career  development  policy  through  recruitment  and  internal 
promotion. The Group has channeled a great deal of time and 
effort into its various people-development programs, supporting 
employee  career  development  through  job  rotation,  local  and 
overseas  job  assignments,  formal  and  informal  learning  and 
development  opportunities  and  sponsorships  for  performance 
enhancement.

The Group employs an innovative approach to employee learning 
and management development. The Group recognises that on-
demand  performance  support  to  its  employees  is  the  key  to 
help  them  deliver  what  customers  need.  Through  the  Group’s 
intranet, called “InfoNet”, the Group offers an all new string to 
its human-resources bow, creating learner-centric platforms with 
interactive  paths  to  training  and  self-improvement,  as  well  as 
opening up learning opportunities to many more people within 
the business. Introduced in 2010, this new intranet portal also 
allows  speedy  sharing  of  company  news  and  business  updates 
while  giving  its  employees  a  platform  to  exchange  views  and 
ideas.  In  2011,  the  Group  had  a  wide  adoption  of  enterprise-
level  collaboration  tools  in  addition  to  conventional  methods 
of communication  such  as email. OOCL Wiki and Tibbr have 
proven to be two of these very effective tools in the sharing of 
information  and  knowledge  as  well  as  collaboration  amongst 
large groups of colleagues in our offices around the world. They 
have also helped us support accelerated learning by providing us 
with the means to leverage resources, ideas and hence solutions.

As  at  31st  December  2012,  the  Group  had  8,626  full-time 
employees.  Their  salary  and  benefit  levels  are  maintained  at 
competitive levels. Employees are rewarded on a performance-
related  basis  within  the  general  policy  and  framework  of  the 
Group’s salary and bonus schemes which are regularly reviewed. 
Other benefits including medical insurance and pension funds 
are  also  provided,  and  social  and  recreational  activities  are 
organised around the world.

In  the  interest  of  adhering  to  the  highest  ethical  standards 
on  an  ongoing  basis,  the  Group  has  a  formulated  Code  of 
Conduct  which  serves  as  a  guideline  to  ensure  compliance 
with all local, national and international legal standards and to 
preclude offences under local, national and international laws, 
any  breaches  of  confidentiality,  non-disclosure  requirements 
or  intellectual  property  rights  and  any  conflicts  of  interest, 
acts  of  bribery,  corruption  or  political  contribution  and  any 
other  areas  of  deemed  misconduct.  The  Group  has  set  up 
procedures to identify, manage and control risks that may have 
an impact on the business of the Group. Established in 2006, the 
Group’s “Whistle Blower Policy” is one of the Group’s formalised 
procedures  through  which  employees  can  anonymously  file 
reports or register concerns and helps govern the reporting and 
thorough  investigation  of  allegations  of  suspected  improper 
activities.

The Group is an equal opportunity employer with policies not to 
discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment 
on the grounds of race, colour, religion, creed, age, sex, disability, 
pregnancy,  childbirth  and  related  medical  condition,  marital 
status, sexual orientation, veteran status and any other category 
as guided by local laws and legal regulations.

20

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Responsibilityanalysis of Consolidated profit and loss account

Summary of Group results

US$’000

operating revenue by activity:
  Container Transport and Logistics
  Other Activities

Group operating revenue

operating profit by activity:
  Container Transport and Logistics
  Other Activities

Group operating profit
Finance costs
Share of profits of jointly controlled 
  entities and associated companies

Gain in fair value on investment property

profit before taxation
Taxation
Non-controlling interests

profit from continuing operations
profit from discontinued operations:
  – Write back of provision

profit attributable to shareholders

2012

2011

Change

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
%

6,432,955
26,104

5,986,719
25,117

6,459,059

6,011,836

229,546
98,532

328,078
(32,877)

15,107

310,308
543

310,851
(13,562)
(930)

296,359

–

296,359

117,794
 51,804

169,598
(26,179)

14,038

 157,457
5,000

162,457
(23,103)
(709)

138,645

43,000

181,645

446,236
987

447,223

111,752
 46,728

158,480
(6,698)

1,069

152,851
(4,457)

148,394
9,541
(221)

157,714

(43,000)

114,714

7%
4%

7%

95%
90%

93%
(26%)

8%

97%
(89%)

91%
41%
(31%)

114%

(100%)

63%

Revenue for 2012 was US$447.2 million higher than that of 2011, representing an increase of 7%. This was mainly attributable to a 
recovery in market condition for the core Container Transport and Logistics business, especially in the first half of the year. Other 
revenue, comprising less than 1% of the Group’s revenue for both 2012 and 2011, mainly represented rental income from the Group’s 
investment property Wall Street Plaza in New York.

21

Financial ReviewOrient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Container transport and logistics

Summary of operating results

US$’000

liftings (teUs)

revenue per teU (US$)

Operating revenue by location:
  Asia/Australia
  North America
  Europe

operating revenue

Operating costs by items:
  Cargo costs
  Bunker costs
  Vessel and voyage costs (excluding Bunker)
  Equipment and repositioning costs

operating costs

Gross profit
Other operating expenses
Other operating income, net

operating profit

2012

2011

5,217,234

5,033,137

1,131

1,099

4,501,763
1,043,213
887,979

4,101,671
1,045,918
839,130

6,432,955

5,986,719

(2,756,490)
(1,211,705)
(1,051,646)
(774,549)

(2,583,723)
(1,211,635)
(945,179)
(731,142)

Change

184,097

32

400,092
(2,705)
48,849

446,236

(172,767)
(70)
(106,467)
(43,407)

(5,794,390)

(5,471,679)

(322,711)

638,565
(429,601)
20,582

515,040
(408,810)
11,564

229,546

117,794

123,525
(20,791)
9,018

111,752

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
%

4%

3%

10%
N/M
6%

7%

(7%)
N/M
(11%)
(6%)

(6%)

24%
(5%)
78%

95%

The Container Transport and Logistics business trades under the “OOCL” name and represents the principal revenue contributor to 
the Group, accounting for over 99% of the Group’s revenue in 2012. Container Transport and Logistics will continue to be the core 
business of the Group in which the majority of the Group’s operating assets will be deployed.

operating revenue of Container transport and logistics

100%

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

14%

17%

69%

14%

16%

70%

2011

2012

Asia/Australia

North America

Europe

The  operating  results  for  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  also  include  the  operations  of  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  in 
California  USA  and  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in  Taiwan  as  those  facilities  are  mainly  employed  by  OOCL  and  its  alliance 
members.

22

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
asia/australia

Turnover from the Asia/Australia area improved from US$4,101.7 million in 2011 to US$4,501.8 million in 2012 as a result of a 
moderate growth in volume amidst an improvement in freight rates. Both North America and Europe bound trades recorded positive 
variances when compared with last year in revenue term.

Overall liftings of the Trans-Pacific eastbound services increased by 1% while freight rates improved by 6% when compared with last 
year. The westbound legs of the Asia/Northern Europe services recorded a 12% gain in rates but a 7% lower in volume. Intra-Asia 
sustained a modest 1% growth in liftings for the year and a 3% improvement in average freight rates. Liftings of the Asia/Australia 
and New Zealand services rose by 28% in 2012 while freight rates maintained comparable with last year.

Overall  load  factor  as  a  percentage  of  the  capacity  available  during  2012  decreased  by  3  percentage  points  from  2011  with  a  7% 
increase in available capacity during the year. Results from this region have always been dependent upon the economic environment 
and consumption patterns of North America and Europe.

Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in  Taiwan  is  an  integral  part  of  the  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  business  and  its  terminal 
facilities are mainly employed by OOCL and its alliance members.

North america

Revenue decreased by US$2.7 million for this area in 2012. Performance of this region was slightly less than that of 2011 with softening 
freight rates, amidst a modest volume growth. Both Asia-bound and Europe-bound cargoes recorded a drop in average freight rates 
which contributed to the set back in revenue from the region.

Although  the  westbound  liftings  from  the  Asia/North  America  West  Coast  service  and  the  Asia/US  East  Coast  service  via  the 
Panama Canal achieved a 3% growth compared with last year, revenue showed a slight decrease due to a 4% drop in freight rates. 
The eastbound Canada/Northern Europe and US East Coast/Northern Europe services recorded no better performance with a 1% 
growth in volume but a 5% drop in revenue.

Overall volumes rose by 3% during 2012 but the average revenue per TEU on all outbound cargoes from North America recorded 
a 4% decrease as compared with last year. With a 12% increase in capacity during the year, the overall load factor in the region was 
6 percentage points down from those of 2011.

Long Beach Container Terminal forms an integral part of the Container Transport and Logistics business with its terminal facilities 
mainly employed by OOCL and its alliance partners.

europe

Turnover for this area in 2012 recorded a further improvement from 2011 by US$48.8 million. The eastbound leg of the Asia/Northern 
Europe services, being the largest revenue contributor for the Europe area in the past years maintained a comparable revenue level in 
2012 while the westbound trades of the Trans-Atlantic routes contributed to the revenue improvement with steady volume growth. 
Revenue gains for the year mainly derived from growth in Intra-Europe and Mediterranean markets.

The eastbound leg of the Asia/Northern Europe services saw a 7% drop volume in 2012 which was compensated by a corresponding 
7% improvement in freight rates. Liftings for the westbound sectors of the Canada/Northern Europe and US East Coast/Northern 
Europe services were 8% higher than those of 2011 while average revenue per TEU for both services was 5% lower. The eastbound 
routes  of  the  Mediterranean  trades  showed  a  remarkable  expansion  during  the  year  with  over  70%  increase  in  both  volume  and 
revenue.

Overall load factors as a percentage of capacity available for cargo shipments from this region were comparable with that of 2011 
despite a 6% capacity increase for the Europe area during 2012.

23

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Financial ReviewAverage revenue per TEU on all outbound cargoes from Europe was 2% lower than that of 2011, with a 7% increase in overall volume 
for the region.

revenue per teU by Services

US$

1,900 

1,700 

1,500 

1,300 

1,100 

900 

700 

500 

Q1 2011

Q2 2011

Q3 2011

Q4 2011

Q1 2012

Q2 2012

Q3 2012

Q4 2012

Trans-Pacific

Asia-Europe

Trans-Atlantic

Intra-Asia/Australia

All Trades

operating Costs

Principal  operating  costs  of  the  container  transport  business,  including  cargo  costs,  vessel  costs,  voyage  costs,  equipment  and 
repositioning costs, increased by 6% from that of 2011 pursuant to the higher cargo volume recorded for the year.

Cargo costs mainly consist of terminal charges, inland transportation costs, commission and brokerage, cargo assessment and freight 
tax, all of which were largely paid in the local currencies of the areas in which the activities took place. Cargo cost increased by 7% 
compared with that of 2011 which was in line with the growth in liftings.

average Bunker price per ton

US$

800

700

600

500

400

300

200

24

Jan Feb Mar Apr May

Jun

Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec

2011

2012

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Financial ReviewVoyage costs comprise mainly bunker costs, port charges, canal dues, cargo claims and insurance. Although bunker price rose from 
an average of US$624 per ton in 2011 to an average of US$664 per ton in 2012, overall bunker cost only slightly increased for the 
year, thanks to savings in bunker consumption through various fuel efficient measures such as slow steaming.

Vessel costs include the operating costs and depreciation charges relating to the OOCL fleet as well as the net charter hire and slot 
hire expenses incurred in order to maintain the scheduled service levels. With the extra capacity from newbuildings and the increases 
in chartered-in vessel capacity, total carrying capacity grew from 415,790 TEU as at 2011 year-end to 452,246 TEU in 2012 and the 
total number of vessels, either owned or chartered in and operated by OOCL, also increased from 88 to 98. Consequently, vessel 
costs recorded an 8% increase in 2012.

Equipment costs principally represent maintenance and repair costs, rental payments, depot expenses and depreciation charges relating 
to the fleet of containers and chassis equipment, while repositioning costs arise mainly from the relocation of empty containers from 
areas of low activity to high demand regions. As a result of the expansion of the container fleet size from 792,940 TEU in 2011 to 
834,561 TEU in 2012 and an increase in positioning costs, total equipment and repositioning costs increased by US$43.4 million, 
or 6%, during the year.

Operating costs

2011

14%

17%

22%

47%

2012

13%

18%

21%

48%

Cargo costs

Bunker costs

Vessel and voyage costs
(excluding Bunker)

Equipment and
repositioning costs

other operating expenses

Other operating expenses largely comprise staff costs, office expenses, selling and marketing costs, professional and information 
system expenses. Other operating expenses in 2012 were US$20.8 million higher than 2011 which was in line with business growth.

other operating income, Net

Other operating income, comprising principally exchange arising from foreign currency transactions and net profit or loss on the 
disposal of assets, for 2012 was higher than that of 2011 mainly due to favourable exchange recorded for the year.

25

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Financial Reviewother activities

Summary of operating results

US$’000

Rental income
Elimination

operating revenue
Operating costs
Costs incurred by hurricane Sandy

Gross profit
Investment income
Interest income
Distributions from investment in Hui Xian
Others

operating profit

2012

26,887
(783)

26,104
(12,328)
(6,707)

7,069
33,785
19,176
43,697
(5,195)

98,532

2011

26,041
(924)

25,117
(12,579)
–

12,538
10,756
18,102
12,133
(1,725)

51,804

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
%

3%
N/M

4%
2%
N/M

(44%)
214%
6%
260%
(201%)

90%

Change

846
141

987
251
(6,707)

(5,469)
23,029
1,074
31,564
(3,470)

46,728

The Group owns an approximately 600,000 square feet office and commercial property, Wall Street Plaza, located at 88 Pine Street, 
New York, USA, an area popularly referred to as the “Wall Street area”. The building was constructed in 1972 and is operated as a 
multi-tenanted building. Approximately 21,000 square feet is occupied by Group companies. The Group also invests funds surplus 
to operation in cash and bank deposits and, on a longer term basis, in equity and bond portfolios. The Group also owns a 7.9% 
interest in Hui Xian Holdings which in turn holds, directly or indirectly, the majority of Hui Xian REIT, the first RMB-denominated 
REIT in Hong Kong.

Hurricane Sandy swept through the US East Coast in late October 2012 causing extensive damage to the city of New York where 
Wall Street Plaza was located. As a result, the building was out of operation for a period of 21 days. Various costs were incurred to 
rebuild and restore the building back to its normal condition and operation was resumed in late November 2012.

Results from Other Activities for 2012 were US$46.7 million better than that of 2011 with extra costs caused by hurricane Sandy 
more than compensated by increased distributions from Hui Xian.

rental income

Rental income from Wall Street Plaza was comparable to that of last year, with the building maintaining an occupancy rate of 94% 
as at the end of 2012.

26

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
investment income

Compared with a profit of US$10.8 million in 2011, investment activities recorded a profit of US$33.8 million for the year. Interest 
income from bond investments as well as fair value gains recorded favourable returns for 2012, reflecting the general buoyant global 
financial markets over the year.

investment income By activities

US$’000

20,000

15,439

15,000

12,942

17,673

10,000

5,000

0

-5,000

794

673

(2,980)

Interest income
from investments

Fair value and 
disposal gain/(loss)

Dividend income

2011

2012

interest income

Interest income was US$1.1 million higher in 2012 which was attributable to a general higher rate achieved for deposits compared 
with 2011.

Distributions from investment in Hui Xian

Hui Xian Holdings declared a cash distribution in April 2012 and a distribution in specie of Hui Xian REIT in May 2012, of which 
the Group shared a total of US$42.6 million. In September, the Group received a further distribution of US$1.1 million from its 
then direct holding of Hui Xian REIT, adding to a total of US$43.7 million for the year as compared with US$12.1 million in 2011.

others

Other items include business and administration expenses for property management, exchange differences and other miscellaneous 
items.

finance Costs

The Group incurs interest expenses on bank loans, finance leases and, to a very small extent, on bank overdrafts. These borrowings 
are variously secured against vessels, containers, chassis and terminal equipment owned by the Group. Finance costs also include 
fees on lease administration.

Finance costs increased by US$6.7 million as compared with 2011 principally as a result of the higher average debt balance for the year.

Gain in fair Value on investment property

As at 31st December 2012, the Group’s investment property, Wall Street Plaza, was valued at US$165 million, up from the US$160 
million valuation at the end of 2011, by an independent valuer. After offsetting a total of US$4.5 million improvement to the building 
spent during the year, the net gain in fair value for 2012 was therefore US$0.5 million.

27

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Financial ReviewShare of results of Jointly Controlled entities and associated Companies

Share of results of jointly controlled entities and associated companies mainly represents the Group’s investment in a depot joint 
venture in Qingdao and a 20% stake in two terminals located in Tianjin and Ningbo, which commenced operations in 2007. The 
share of US$15.1 million profits from jointly controlled entities and associated companies in 2012 was US$1.1 million higher than 
2011, reflecting the improved operation of the Tianjin terminal.

profit before taxation

Pre-tax profit for the year was US$310.9 million compared with last year’s profit of US$162.5 million. The improvement in earnings 
reflected the recovery in market conditions of the Container Transport and Logistics business, especially in the first half of the year.

taxation

US$’000

Company and subsidiaries:
  North America
  Europe
  China
  Asia and others

Total

2012

923
672
2,543
9,424

13,562

2011

Change

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
%

10,769
2,265
2,748
7,321

23,103

(9,846)
(1,593)
(205)
2,103

(9,541)

91%
70%
7%
(29%)

41%

Taxation for 2012 was US$9.5 million lower than that of 2011 mainly as a result of the write-back of provision for previous years 
and tax credits on costs incurred for hurricane Sandy. Tax liabilities for China were comparable with that of 2011 while expansion 
of business volume over Asian countries increased the tax liabilities in these areas during the year.

Capital expenditure

US$’000

Container vessels and capitalised dry-docking costs
Vessels under construction
Containers
Chassis
Vehicles, furniture, computer and other equipment
Computer software
Investment property
Land and buildings

2012

34,287
548,055
109,897
54
77,676
9,761
4,457
375

2011

Change

33,731
444,881
232,470
99
17,202
6,494
–
9,726

556
103,174
(122,573)
(45)
60,474
3,267
4,457
(9,351)

784,562

744,603

39,959

Increase/
(decrease)
%

2%
23%
(53%)
(45%)
352%
50%
N/M
(96%)

5%

Capital expenditure increased from US$744.6 million in 2011 to US$784.6 million in 2012, representing a US$40.0 million increase 
from  the  2011  level.  Vessels  under  construction  accounted  for  70%  and  60%  of  the  total  capital  expenditure  in  2012  and  2011 
respectively. Increases in capital payments on other equipment mainly represented the acquisition of terminal equipment for the 
Middle Harbor Redevelopment Project in Long Beach, USA.

28

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vessels

During 2012, the Group took no delivery of newbuilds on order. In January 2012, the Group exercised the purchase option for one 
chartered vessel and sale-and-lease-back two aged vessels during the interim period.

As at the end of 2012, the Group had a total of sixteen newbuilding orders for ten 13,200 TEU vessels from Samsung Heavy Industries 
Co Ltd and six 8,888 TEU vessels from Hudong-Zhonghua Shipyard (Group) Co Ltd, to be delivered from 2013 to 2015.

Newbuilding Delivery Schedule

Delivery

Jan 2013
Jan 2013
Mar 2013
Mar 2013
Mar 2013
Apr 2013
May 2013
Jun 2013
Jul 2013
Sep 2013
Mar 2014
Apr 2014
Oct 2014
Dec 2014
Feb 2015
Apr 2015

Shipyard

Hudong-Zhonghua Shipbuilding
Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries
Hudong-Zhonghua Shipbuilding
Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries
Hudong-Zhonghua Shipbuilding
Hudong-Zhonghua Shipbuilding
Hudong-Zhonghua Shipbuilding
Hudong-Zhonghua Shipbuilding

Hull No.

H1564A
HN2002
HN2003
HN2004
H1584A
HN2005
HN2006
HN2007
HN2008
HN2009
HN2010
HN2011
H1565A
H1585A
H1667A
H1668A

teU

8,888
13,200
13,200
13,200
8,888
13,200
13,200
13,200
13,200
13,200
13,200
13,200
8,888
8,888
8,888
8,888

Date of order

2007
2011
2011
2011
2007
2011
2011
2011
2011
2011
2011
2011
2007
2007
2010
2010

29

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
review of Consolidated Balance Sheet

Summary of Consolidated Balance Sheet

US$’000

Property, plant and equipment
Investment property and prepayments of 

lease premiums

Jointly controlled entities and associated companies
Intangible assets
Liquid assets
Accounts receivable and other assets
Other non-current assets

total aSSetS
Accounts payable and other liabilities
Current taxation

2012

2011

4,664,773

4,205,194

174,793
119,527
38,916
2,339,531
852,222
75,318

8,265,080
(797,866)
(6,191)

170,249
82,411
40,014
2,413,132
750,582
71,517

7,733,099
(723,860)
(11,241)

total aSSetS leSS traDiNG liaBilitieS

7,461,023

6,997,998

Change

459,579

4,544
37,116
(1,098)
(73,601)
101,640
3,801

531,981
(74,006)
5,050

463,025

Long-term borrowings
Short-term borrowings, overdrafts and 
  current portion of long-term borrowings

Total debt
Non-controlling interests and deferred liabilities
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

Capital eMploYeD
Debt to equity ratio
Net debt to equity ratio
Accounts payable as a % of revenue
Accounts receivable as a % of revenue
% return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Net asset value per ordinary share (US$)
Liquid assets per ordinary share (US$)
Share price at 31st December (US$)
Price to book ratio based on share price 
  at 31st December

2,325,777

2,233,095

92,682

116,642

209,324
(4,927)
258,628

463,025

555,753

439,111

2,881,530
70,003
4,509,490

7,461,023
0.64
0.12
12.15
8.42
6.77
7.21
3.74
6.44

2,672,206
74,930
4,250,862

6,997,998
0.63
0.06
11.80
7.83
3.69
6.79
3.86
5.81

0.89

0.85

Increase/
(decrease)
%

11%

3%
45%
(3%)
(3%)
14%
5%

7%
10%
(45%)

7%

4%

27%

8%
(7%)
6%

7%

30

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
property, plant and equipment

US$’000

Vessels
Containers and chassis
Land and buildings
Others

2012

3,523,332
963,446
45,850
132,145

2011

3,124,917
954,432
47,638
78,207

4,664,773

4,205,194

Change

398,415
9,014
(1,788)
53,938

459,579

Increase/
(decrease)
%

13%
1%
(4%)
69%

11%

Container  Transport  and  Logistics  remains  the  core  business  of  the  Group  and  the  one  in  which  the  majority  of  property,  plant 
and equipment is deployed. The assets largely comprise container vessels, containers and chassis, property, terminal and computer 
equipment and systems. In 2012, the Group placed no new order for new vessels. As at the end of 2012, the Group had a total of 16 
outstanding newbuilding orders to be delivered in 2013 to 2015.

The increase in property, plant and equipment in 2012 principally reflects the stage payments on new vessels under construction, 
offset in part by the annual depreciation charges for the year.

investment property and prepayments of lease premiums

US$’000

Investment property
Prepayments of lease premiums

2012

165,000
9,793

174,793

2011

160,000
10,249

170,249

Change

5,000
(456)

4,544

Increase/
(decrease)
%

3%
(4%)

3%

Investment property represents the Group’s commercial building, Wall Street Plaza, in New York. The building was valued at US$165.0 
million at the end of 2012 by an independent valuer (2011: US$160.0 million).

Jointly Controlled entities and associated Companies

US$’000

Jointly controlled entities
Associated companies

2012

7,610
111,917

119,527

2011

6,741
75,670

82,411

Change

869
36,247

37,116

Increase/
(decrease)
%

13%
48%

45%

The investments in jointly controlled entities and associated companies for 2012 mainly comprise a 20% interest in two associated 
companies for two container terminals in Tianjin and Ningbo and the interest in a joint venture for the operation of a container depot 
and transportation business in Qingdao. The increase in the investments in jointly controlled entities and associated companies for 
2012 mainly arose from the profits shared for the year and further investment in the Ningbo terminal.

31

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
intangible assets

US$’000

Beginning balances
Additions
Amortisation

Closing balances

2011

Change

2012

40,014
9,761
(10,859)

46,648
6,496
(13,130)

38,916

40,014

(6,634)
3,265
2,271

(1,098)

Intangible assets represent computer software development costs which are amortised over a period of five years.

liquid assets

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities
Cash and portfolio funds
Available-for-sale listed equity securities
Held-to-maturity investments

2012

2011

Change

472,115
30,708
1,582,744
8
253,956

252,325
28,663
1,949,347
705
182,092

219,790
2,045
 (366,603)
(697)
71,864

Total liquid assets

2,339,531

2,413,132

 (73,601)

Increase/
(decrease)
%

(14%)
50%
(17%)

(3%)

Increase/
(decrease)
%

87%
7%
 (19%)
(99%)
39%

 (3%)

The Group adopts a central treasury system under which certain funds surplus to planned requirements are set aside for portfolio 
investments in fixed income bonds or equities managed by in-house managers under guidelines imposed by the Board.

The Group’s investment portfolios are largely invested in US dollar bonds, short-term cash deposits or similar instruments, and listed 
equities. No investments are made in derivative investment products.

Available-for-sale listed equity securities mainly represent listed securities held for medium-term value growth; held-to-maturity 
investments are entirely bonds intended to be held until maturity.

The Group’s total liquid assets at the end of 2011 and 2012 can be further analysed as follows:

US$’000

Cash (per cashflow statement)
Bank overdrafts

Bank balances and deposits maturing within 
three months from the date of placement
Bank balances and deposits maturing over 
three months from the date of placement

Cash and bank balances (per balance sheet)
Restricted bank balances
Portfolio investments
Available-for-sale listed equity securities
Held-to-maturity investments

2012

1,597,018
172

2011

1,909,154
236

Change

(312,136)
(64)

1,597,190

1,909,390

(312,200)

264,460

189,494

74,966

1,861,650
18,490
205,427
8
253,956

2,098,884
12,271
119,180
705
182,092

(237,234)
6,219
86,247
(697)
71,864

Total liquid assets

2,339,531

2,413,132

(73,601)

32

Increase/
(decrease)
%

(16%)
(27%)

(16%)

40%

(11%)
51%
72%
(99%)
39%

(3%)

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
accounts receivable and other assets

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Others

2012

675,188
177,034

852,222

2011

602,394
148,188

750,582

Change

72,794
28,846

101,640

Increase/
(decrease)
%

12%
19%

14%

Accounts receivable and other assets for Container Transport and Logistics increased by US$72.8 million to US$675.2 million at the 
end of 2012. The increase mainly represented a higher business volume as compared with 2011.

Ageing Analysis of Trade Receivables

2011

2012

6% 1%

2%7%

93%

91%

accounts payable and other liabilities

Below 1 month

2-3 months

4-6 months

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Others

2012

786,456
11,410

797,866

2011

718,438
5,422

723,860

Change

68,018
5,988

74,006

Increase/
(decrease)
%

9%
110%

10%

Accounts payable and other liabilities at the end of 2012 were US$74.0 million higher than that of 2011, reflecting mainly the increase 
in business volume.

Ageing Analysis of Trade Payables

2011

2012

72%

26%

61%

2%

37%

2%

Below 1 month

2-3 months

Over 3 months

33

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
total Debt

US$’000

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations
Bank overdrafts

2012

1,604,198
1,277,160
172

2011

1,181,495
1,490,475
236

Change

422,703
(213,315)
(64)

2,881,530

2,672,206

209,324

Increase/
(decrease)
%

36%
(14%)
(27%)

8%

Total debt increased during the year by US$209.3 million principally as a result of the financial obligations incurred upon the stage 
payments on newbuildings during the year, offset in part by the scheduled repayments.

Total debt repayment between 2013 and 2017 is US$1,608.9 million, which is 56% of the total debt of 2012. Details of the repayment 
profile of the Group’s borrowings are set out in Note 36 to the consolidated accounts of this report.

Debt profile

As at the end of 2012, 99% (2011: 99%) of the Group’s total debt was denominated in US dollars which effectively reduced the risk 
of exchange fluctuations.

Of  the  total  US$2,881.5  million  debt  outstanding  at  the  end  of  2012,  US$44.2  million  was  fixed-rate  debt  and  the  remaining 
US$2,837.3 million of indebtedness was subject to floating interest rates at various competitive spreads over three-month/six-month 
LIBOR (or equivalent) and related principally to the financing of vessels and container equipment. The Group’s average cost of debt 
at 31st December 2012 was 1.0% (2011: 1.0%).

Net Debt to equity ratio

This ratio changed to 0.12:1 at end of 2012, from 0.06:1 at end of 2011 pursuant to the equity portion of stage payments made for 
newbuilding orders in 2012. This ratio will be closely monitored in the light of the delivery and financing of new vessels ordered and 
business forecasts over the next three years. It is the Group’s objective to keep this key ratio below a threshold of 1.0.

Net Debt to equity

Ratio

0.40

0.20

0.00

Net Cash

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

Shareholders’ equity

As at 31st December 2012, the Company had a number of 625,793,297 shares in issue, consisting entirely of ordinary shares. With 
the profit recorded for the year, the Group’s consolidated shareholders’ equity increased by US$258.6 million to US$4,509.5 million 
as at the end of 2012 with a net asset value per ordinary share of US$7.2 (2011: US$6.8).

operating leases and Commitments

In addition to the operating assets owned by the Company and its subsidiaries, the Group also manages and utilises assets through 
operating lease arrangements. The total rental payment in respect of these leases for 2013 amounted to US$256.8 million as detailed 
in Note 39(b) to the consolidated accounts of this report. Assets under operating lease arrangements consist primarily of container 
boxes, chassis, container vessels and a terminal in North America.

As at the end of 2012, the Group had outstanding capital commitments amounting to US$1,629.4 million, principally represented 
by the orders placed for new container vessels to be delivered between 2013 and 2015.

34

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
analysis of Change in liquid assets

US$’000

Net inflow from operations

Other inflow:

Interest and investment income

  Sale of property, plant and equipment and investments
  New loan drawdown
  Cash from jointly controlled entities and 

  associated companies

  Loan repayment from an investee company
  Others

Other outflow: 
Interest paid

  Dividends paid to shareholders
  Taxation paid
  Purchase of property, plant and equipment 

  and investments

  Loan repayments

Increase in intangible assets

  Acquisition of additional interest in a subsidiary
  Others

Net outflow
Beginning liquid asset balances
Currency translation adjustment

2012

478,032

48,959
77,450
627,125

9,905
–
1,121

2011

308,322

49,375
155,795
281,620

8,950
71,100
-

Change

169,710

(416)
 (78,345)
345,505

955
(71,100)
1,121

764,560

566,840

197,720

 (35,068)
(29,198)
(18,114)

(763,723)
(459,019)
(9,761)
(550)
(1,019)

 (29,716)
(1,498,920)
(32,852)

(751,418)
(273,580)
(6,494)
-
(2,380)

 (5,352)
1,469,722
14,738

(12,305)
(185,439)
(3,267)
(550)
1,361

(1,316,452)

(2,595,360)

1,278,908

(73,860)
2,413,132
259

(1,720,198)
4,132,897
433

1,646,338
(1,719,765)
(174)

Ending liquid asset balances

2,339,531

2,413,132

(73,601)

Represented by:
  Unrestricted bank balances and deposits
  Restricted bank balances
  Portfolio investments
  Available-for-sale listed equity securities
  Held-to-maturity investments

1,861,650
18,490
205,427
8
253,956

2,098,884
12,271
119,180
705
182,092

 (237,234)
6,219
86,247
(697)
71,864

2,339,531

2,413,132

(73,601)

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
%

55%

(1%)
 (50%)
123%

11%
N/A
N/A

35%

 (18%)
98%
45%

(2%)
(68%)
(50%)
N/A
57%

49%

96%
(42%)
(40%)

(3%)

 (11%)
51%
72%
(99%)
39%

(3%)

A net outflow of US$73.9 million was recorded in 2012 compared with US$1,720.2 million in 2011. Operating inflow of US$478.0 
million for the year was US$169.7 million better than that of 2011 with the improvement in operating results for 2012. The capital 
payments and corresponding loan drawdown amounts in 2012 mainly reflected the scheduled stage payments on new vessels ordered. 
Total liquid asset balances decreased to US$2,339.5 million at the end of 2012, against US$2,413.1 million in 2011.

liquidity

As at 31st December 2012, the Group had total liquid asset balances of US$2,339.5 million compared with debt obligations of US$555.8 
million repayable in 2013. Total current assets at the end of 2012 amounted to US$2,765.3 million against total current liabilities of 
US$1,352.4 million. The Group’s shareholders’ equity contains no loan capital. The Group prepares and updates cashflow forecasts 
for asset acquisitions, project development requirements, as well as working capital needs, from time to time with the objective of 
maintaining a proper balance between a conservative liquidity level and an efficient investment of surplus funds.

35

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tUNG Chee Chen

Mr. TUNG Chee Chen, aged 70, has been appointed as Chairman, President and Chief 
Executive Officer of the Company since October 1996. Mr. Tung chairs the Executive 
Committee of the Company. On 9th March 2012, Mr. Tung ceased as the Chairman 
of  the  Remuneration  Committee  of  the  Company  but  remains  as  a  member  of  the 
Remuneration  Committee,  and  he  was  elected  as  the  Chairman  of  the  Nomination 
Committee of the Company. He is also the Chairman or a Director of various subsidiaries 
of the Company. Mr. Tung graduated from the University of Liverpool, England, where 
he received his Bachelor of Science degree and acquired a Master’s degree in Mechanical 
Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the United States. Mr. Tung 
is  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  BOC  Hong  Kong  (Holdings)  Limited, 
Cathay Pacific Airways Limited, Wing Hang Bank, Limited, Sing Tao News Corporation 
Limited and U-Ming Marine Transport Corp., which are all listed public companies. He 
was formerly an Independent Non-Executive Director of PetroChina Company Limited 
and Zhejiang Expressway Co., Ltd., both are companies listed in Hong Kong. Mr. Tung 
is a member of the Hong Kong Logistics Development Council and the Hong Kong-
United States Business Council. Mr. Tung is the brother of Mr. Tung Chee Hwa who has 
a direct interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala 
Way Company Inc. (substantial shareholders of the Company); the brother-in-law of 
Professor Roger King, a Non-Executive Director of the Company; and the uncle of Mr. 
Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew and Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan, both are Executive Directors 
of the Company.

tUNG lieh Cheung andrew

Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew, aged 48, has been an Executive Director and a member of the Executive 
Committee of the Company since 2nd November 2011. He has been a Director and a member of the Executive 
Committee of Orient Overseas Container Line Limited (“OOCLL”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, 
since March 2006, and the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Managing Director of OOCLL since 1st July 2012. 
Mr. Tung is also a director of Cargosmart (Hong Kong) Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. 
Between 1993 and 1998, he has served the Group in various capacities including Director of Reefer Trade of 
OOCLL. The last position Mr. Tung held in Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Limited prior to joining OOCLL in 
2006 was the Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Tung holds a Bachelor degree from Princeton University and a Master 
of Business Administration from Stanford University in the USA. He is currently a member of the Executive 
Committee  of  Hong  Kong  Shipowners  Association.  Mr.  Tung  was  the  Vice-Chairman  of  the  International 
Chamber of Commerce Commission for Transport & Logistics and an Independent Non-Executive Director 
of  Integrated  Distribution  Services  Group  Limited,  a  company  previously  listed  in  The  Stock  Exchange  of 
Hong Kong Limited, until withdrawal of its listing on 1st November 2010. Mr. Tung is the son of Mr. Tung 
Chee Hwa who has a direct interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala 
Way Company Inc. (substantial shareholders of the Company) and is the brother of Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan 
(Executive Director of the Company). He is the nephew of Mr. Tung Chee Chen (Chairman, President and 
Chief Executive Officer of the Company and has an interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune 
Crest Inc. and Gala Way Company Inc. (substantial shareholders of the Company)) and Professor Roger King 
(Non-Executive Director of the Company).

Kenneth Gilbert CaMBie

Mr. Kenneth Gilbert CAMBIE, aged 51, has been an Executive Director and the Chief Financial Officer of the 
Company since August 2007. He chairs the Finance Committee and the Share Committee and is a member 
of  the  Executive  Committee  and  the  Compliance  Committee  of  the  Company  and  a  Director  of  various 
subsidiaries of the Company. He is a member of the New Zealand Institute of Chartered Accountants and holds 
a Master of Commerce degree (first class honours) from Auckland University in New Zealand. Mr. Cambie 
joined the Company following a 20-year career with Citibank. His last position with Citibank was as Director, 
Transportation, Asia Pacific Corporate Banking based in Hong Kong. In that role Mr. Cambie was responsible 
for meeting the banking and financing needs of a range of shipping, port, airline and airport companies in the 
Asia and Pacific regions. Prior to moving to Hong Kong in mid-2001, Mr. Cambie was the corporate banking 
head for Citibank, New Zealand for seven years and had also spent several years with the bank in Australia in 
corporate banking and leveraged finance roles. He did not hold directorships in any other public companies 
listed in Hong Kong and overseas in the last three years.

36

Board of DirectorsOrient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012tUNG lieh Sing alan

Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan, aged 45, has been an Executive Director of the Company since 1st May 2005. Mr. 
Tung has been with the Group in various capacities for twenty years and is a Director of various subsidiaries 
of the Company. Mr. Tung graduated from Princeton University, Politics Department with a Bachelor of Arts 
degree. Mr. Tung is the Chairman of the Hong Kong Shipowners Association and is a member of the Hong 
Kong Economic Development Commission and the Hong Kong Maritime Industry Council and the Greater 
Pearl River Delta Business Council. He is on the Executive Committee of the International Association of Dry 
Cargo Shipowners (Intercargo), the Chairman of the Advisory Committee of Center for Transport, Trade and 
Financial Studies of the City University of Hong Kong and a member of the Departmental Advisory Committee 
of Department of Logistics and Maritime Studies of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University. He did not hold 
directorships in any other public companies listed in Hong Kong and overseas in the last three years. Mr. Tung 
is the son of Mr. Tung Chee Hwa who has a direct interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune 
Crest Inc. and Gala Way Company Inc. (substantial shareholders of the Company) and is the brother of Mr. 
Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew (Executive Director of the Company). He is the nephew of Mr. Tung Chee Chen 
(Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and has an interest in a trust which has an 
indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala Way Company Inc. (substantial shareholders of the Company)) 
and Professor Roger King (Non-Executive Director of the Company).

professor roger KiNG

Professor Roger KING, aged 72, has been a Non-Executive Director of the Company since March 2000 
and was an Executive Director of the Company from 1992. He is a member of the Finance Committee of 
the Company since 4th March 2008. He was a Director of Orient Overseas (Holdings) Limited (“OOHL”) 
from 1983 to 1992 and the Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer of OOHL from 1985 to 1987. 
Professor King is a graduate of the University of Michigan, BSEE; New York University, MSEE; Harvard 
Business  School,  AMP;  and  The  Hong  Kong  University  of  Science  and  Technology  (“HKUST”),  PhD 
in Finance. He is an Adjunct Professor of Finance, Director of Center for Asian Family Business and 
Entrepreneurship Studies and Director of Thompson Center for Business Case Studies at HKUST. He is 
the 2011 recipient of Honorary Fellowship from HKUST on 24th June 2011. Prior to joining OOHL in 
1974, he served in the United States Navy and worked in computer research and management consultancy 
at  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  and  John  Diebold,  respectively.  Professor  King  is  a  member  of  the 
Supervisory Board of TNT Express N.V. (listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange) and the Honorary 
Consul  of  the  Republic  of  Latvia  in  Hong  Kong.  Professor  King  was  an  Independent  Non-Executive 
Director of Sincere Watch (Hong Kong) Limited (listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange) and Arrow 
Electronics, Inc. (listed on the New York Stock Exchange), a member of the Supervisory Board of TNT 
N.V.  (listed  on  the  Amsterdam  Stock  Exchange),  Chairman  and  founder  of  System-Pro  Computers 
Limited, one of the largest personal computer reseller in Hong Kong, Chairman of Pacific Coffee Limited 
and a member of the Standing Committee of Zhejiang Province People’s Political Consultative Conference. 
Professor King is the brother-in-law of Mr. Tung Chee Hwa who has a direct interest in a trust which has 
an indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala Way Company Inc. (substantial shareholders of the 
Company), and Mr. Tung Chee Chen (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company 
and has an interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala Way Company 
Inc. (substantial shareholders of the Company)) and the uncle of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew and 
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan, both are Executive Directors of the Company.

CHoW philip Yiu Wah

Mr.  CHOW  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  aged  65,  is  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  since  the  re-
designation from an Executive Director of the Company on 1st July 2012. He is also a consultant of the 
Company for a term of one year from 1st July 2012 to 30th June 2013. He is a member of the Finance 
Committee  and  the  Share  Committee  of  the  Company.  Mr.  Chow  was  an  Executive  Director  of  the 
Company  from  1st  December  2003  to  30th  June  2012.  Mr.  Chow  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Science  degree 
in Chemistry and Physics from the University of Hong Kong and a Master of Business Administration 
degree from the Chinese University of Hong Kong. He did not hold directorships in any other public 
companies listed in Hong Kong and overseas in the last three years.

37

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Board of DirectorsSimon MUrraY
Mr. Simon MURRAY, CBE, aged 72, has been an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company since 1992 and 
was a Non-Executive Director of Orient Overseas (Holdings) Limited from 1989 until 1992. He serves on the Audit 
Committee of the Company. He is the Chairman of General Enterprise Management Services (International) Limited 
(GEMS), a private equity fund management company. He is a Non-Executive Chairman of Glencore International Plc 
and is an Independent Non-Executive Director of Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited and Wing Tai Properties Limited 
(formerly known as USI Holdings Limited), all listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. He is the Vice 
Chairman of Essar Energy Plc, a Non-Executive Director of Compagnie Financière Richemont SA, Greenheart Group 
Limited and IRC Limited, and an Independent Director of Sino-Forest Corporation. He was formerly an Independent 
Non-Executive Director of Hutchison Whampoa Limited, a listed company in Hong Kong and a Non-Executive Director 
of Vodafone Group Plc, a listed company in the United Kingdom. With effect from the end of 24th March 2011, Mr. 
Murray resigned as an Independent Non-Executive Director of Arnhold Holdings Limited, a company listed in Hong 
Kong and was subsequently renamed to Summit Ascent Holdings Limited after his resignation. Mr. Murray is a member 
of the Former Directors Committee of The Community Chest of Hong Kong and has been involved in a number of 
other charitable organisations, including Save The Children Fund and The China Coast Community Association.

CHaNG tsann rong ernest

Mr.  CHANG  Tsann  Rong  Ernest,  aged  73,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the 
Company since 30th December 2008 and is a member of the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee 
and the Share Committee of the Company. On 9th March 2012, Mr. Chang was elected as the Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee and became a member of the Nomination Committee of the Company. Mr. 
Chang was an Executive Director of the Company from 23rd December 1988, a member of the Executive 
Committee from 30th October 1996 and the Vice Chairman of the Company from 1st December 2003, 
all  until  30th  June  2006.  He  was  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  from  1st  July  2006  until 
29th  December  2008.  He  is  a  Certified  Public  Accountant  in  Taiwan  and  holds  a  Master  of  Business 
Administration degree from Indiana State University, USA. He did not hold directorships in any other 
public companies listed in Hong Kong and overseas in the last three years.

professor WoNG Yue Chim richard
Professor WONG Yue Chim Richard, aged 60, has been an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company 
since December 2003. He is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee 
of the Company. On 9th March 2012, Professor Wong was elected as a member of the Nomination Committee of the 
Company. He graduated from University of Chicago with Bachelor’s, Master’s and Ph.D. degrees in Economics and is 
Chair of Economics at The University of Hong Kong. He has been active in advancing economic research on policy 
issues in Hong Kong and China. He was awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star in 1999 by the Government of the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region for his contributions in education, housing, industry and technology development. He 
was appointed Justice of the Peace in July 2000. Professor Wong is currently an Independent Non-Executive Director 
of four other listed companies in Hong Kong, namely CK Life Sciences Int’l., (Holdings) Inc., Great Eagle Holdings 
Limited, Pacific Century Premium Developments Limited and Sun Hung Kai Properties Limited. He is an Independent 
Non-Executive Director of The Link Management Limited, the manager of The Link Real Estate Investment Trust, 
a Hong Kong listed company. He is an Independent Non-Executive Director of Industrial and Commercial Bank of 
China (Asia) Limited, a company previously listed in The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited until withdrawal of 
its listing on 21st December 2010.

CHeNG Wai Sun edward
Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward, aged 57, has been an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company since 19th 
March 2009. He serves on the Audit Committee of the Company. Mr. Cheng graduated from Cornell University with a 
Bachelor’s degree in Political Science and Economics, and Oxford University with a Bachelor’s degree in Jurisprudence 
and a Master’s degree. He was qualified as a solicitor in England and Wales as well as in Hong Kong. He is a Justice of 
the Peace and has been awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star by the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region. Mr. Cheng is an Executive Director, Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman of Wing Tai Properties Limited 
and an Independent Non-Executive Director of Television Broadcasts Limited, all listed on The Stock Exchange of 
Hong Kong Limited. He was formerly a Non-Executive Director of Winsor Properties Holdings Limited (company 
name changed to Vanke Property (Overseas) Limited), a company listed in Hong Kong. Mr. Cheng has many years of 
public service experience in urban renewal, housing, finance, corruption prevention, technology and education. He is 
the Chairman of the University Grants Committee and a member of the board of The Airport Authority Hong Kong 
and a member of Commission on Strategic Development of the Hong Kong SAR Government. Mr. Cheng was the 
former Chairman of the Urban Renewal Authority and former member of the Advisory Committee on Corruption of 
the Independent Commission Against Corruption. He has also previously served on the Hong Kong SAR Government’s 
Steering Committee on Innovation & Technology, the Council of the Hong Kong Institute of Education, the Council 
of the City University of Hong Kong, the Council of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, the Executive Committee 
of the Hong Kong Housing Society, the Council of the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the 
Securities and Futures Commission’s Takeovers and Mergers Panel and the Takeovers Appeal Committee, and was a 
part-time member of the Central Policy Unit.

38

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Board of Directorslammy lee
Ms. Lee, aged 51, has been the Company Secretary and Group Legal 
Advisor  of  OOIL  since  February  1997  and  Compliance  Officer  of 
OOIL since June 2004. She was appointed a Director of OOCL and a 
member of the OOCL Executive Committee since 1st April 2011. Ms. 
Lee holds a Bachelor of Laws from Queen Mary College, University 
of London, a Barrister and member of Lincoln’s Inn and admitted as 
an advocate and solicitor of the High Court of Malaya. Ms. Lee joined 
the  Group  in  1988  and  has  served  the  Group  in  various  capacities 
for 24 years.

Steve Siu
Mr.  Siu,  aged  55,  has  been 
the  Chief  Information  Officer 
and  a  Director  of  OOCL 
since  November  2006  and 
Chief  Executive  Officer  of 
CargoSmart since January 2002. 
He holds a Bachelor of Science 
degree and a Master of Science 
degree  from  the  University 
of  Essex,  UK  and  a  Master  of 
Business Administration jointly 
organised  by  Northwestern 
University  and  The  Hong 
Kong University of Science and 
Technology. Mr. Siu joined the 
Group in 1987 and has served 
the Group in various capacities 
for 25 years.

Stephen Ng
Mr.  Ng,  aged  54,  has  been  the 
Director  of  Trades  since  July 
2012,  Director  of  Corporate 
Planning until June 2012 and a 
Director of OOCL since August 
2010.  He  holds  a  Bachelor  of 
Social  Sciences  degree  from 
the  University  of  Hong  Kong 
and an MBA from the Chinese 
University  of  Hong  Kong.  Mr. 
Ng  joined  the  Group  in  1987 
and  has  served  the  Group  in 
various capacities for 25 years. 
Before  being  transferred  back 
to  Hong  Kong  in  2010,  he 
worked in California for seven 
years  as  Head  of  Trans-Pacific 
Trade.

erxin Yao

Mr.  Yao,  aged  55,  has  been  a  Director  of  OOCL  since  January 
2010 and a Director of Corporate Planning, Regions Management 
and  Corporation  Administration  since  January  2013.  He  holds 
a  Bachelor  of  Arts  degree  from  Toronto/Fudan  University  joint 
program  and  a  Master  of  International  Affairs  from  Columbia 
University. Mr. Yao joined the Group in 1993 and has served the 
Group  in  various  capacities  for  19  years,  including  serving  as 
Executive Vice-President and Head of Corporate Services of OOCL 
Logistics  in  Hong  Kong,  Managing  Director  of  Orient  Overseas 
Container  Line  (China)  Co.,  Ltd.  and  OOCL  Logistics  (China) 
Limited based in Shanghai and President of OOCL (USA) Inc..

Michael Kwok
Mr. Kwok, aged 58, has been the Chief Operating 
Officer  of  OOCL  since  July  2012,  Director 
of  Trades  until  June  2012  and  a  Director  of 
OOCL  since  August  2010.  He  holds  a  Bachelor 
of  Business  Administration  from  Chinese 
University  of  Hong  Kong.  Mr.  Kwok  joined  the 
Group  in  1978  and  has  served  the  Group  in 
various capacities for 34 years, including serving 
as Director of Intra Asia Trade and Head of Fleet 
Management and Corporate Logistics.

allan Wong
Mr. Wong, aged 59, has been the Chief Executive 
Officer  of  OOCL  Logistics  Ltd  since  June  2004. 
Until  1st  January  2013,  he  was  concurrently 
heading  Corporate  Sales  Department  of  OOCL. 
He was appointed as OOCL Director in October 
2000  and  as  Managing  Director  in  November 
2009. Mr. Wong holds a Bachelor of Social Science 
and a Master of Business Administration from the 
Chinese University of Hong Kong. He joined the 
Group  in  1976  and  served  the  Group  in  various 
capacities for 36 years.

Bosco louie
Mr.  Louie,  aged  61,  has  been  the  Director 
of  Regions  Management  and  Corporate 
Administration since August 2010 and a Director 
of OOCL since January 2004 until he retired on 
1st  January  2013.  He  holds  a  Bachelor’s  degree 
from  The  University  of  Hong  Kong.  Mr.  Louie 
joined  the  Group  in  1975  and  has  served  the 
Group in various capacities for 37 years.

39

Senior ManagementOrient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Announcement of results for the half year ended 30th June 2012

Despatch of 2012 Interim Report to shareholders

Announcement of results for the year ended 31st December 2012

Despatch of 2012 Annual Report to shareholders

Closure of the Register of Members 
(to ascertain the shareholders eligible to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting)

2012 Annual General Meeting

Closure of the Register of Members 
(to ascertain the shareholders eligible to the proposed final dividend)

2nd August 2012

4th September 2012

6th March 2013

3rd April 2013

22nd April 2013 to 
26th April 2013 
(Both days inclusive)

26th April 2013

6th May 2013 to 
8th May 2013
(Both days inclusive)

40

Financial CalendarOrient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
orDiNarY SHareS

Issued shares
Nominal value per share

aNNUal report

625,793,297 shares (as at 31st December 2012)
US$0.10

This annual report is available in both English and Chinese.

Shareholders can obtain copies by writing to:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited
17M Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong

If you are not a shareholder, please write to:

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
33rd Floor, Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road
Wanchai, Hong Kong
Attn: Company Secretary

This annual report is also available at our website at http://www.ooilgroup.com.

SHareHolDer SerViCeS

Any matters relating to your shareholding, including transfer of shares, change of name or address, and loss of share certificates 
should be addressed in writing to:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited
17M Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong
Telephone: (852) 2862 8555 

Facsimile: (852) 2865 0990

SHareHolDer eNqUirieS

Any matters relating to shareholders’ rights should be addressed in writing to:

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
33rd Floor, Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road
Wanchai, Hong Kong
Attn: Company Secretary

Our enquiry hotline is operational during normal office hours:
Facsimile: (852) 2531 8147

Telephone: (852) 2833 3888 

41

Shareholder InformationOrient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Ordinary shareholder information as at 31st December 2012:

Category

Corporate

Individual

Number of shares held

1 – 10,000
10,001 – 100,000
100,001 – 1,000,000
1,000,001 or above

Shareholders

Shares of US$0.10 each

Number

percentage

Number

percentage

27

2.6188%

619,676,815

99.0226%

1,004

97.3812%

6,116,482

0.9774%

1,031

100.00%

625,793,297

100.00%

Shareholders

Shares of US$0.10 each

Number

percentage

Number

percentage

955
67
5
4

92.6285%
6.4985%
0.4850%
0.3880%

1,418,064
2,095,615
1,520,013
620,759,605

0.2266%
0.3349%
0.2429%
99.1956%

1,031

100.00%

625,793,297

100.00%

teN larGeSt orDiNarY SHareHolDerS

At 31st December 2012, the interests of the ten largest ordinary shareholders of the Company, as recorded in the Company’s principal 
register and Hong Kong branch register of members, were as follows:

Number of ordinary 
shares held

percentage

350,722,656
189,572,406
79,227,432
1,237,111
612,731
500,000
157,322
130,400
119,560
100,000

56.044%
30.293%
12.660%
0.198%
0.098%
0.080%
0.025%
0.021%
0.019%
0.016%

Name of ordinary shareholder

Fortune Crest Inc.
HKSCC Nominees Limited
Gala Way Company Inc.
Mok Kwun Cheung
Chang Tsann Rong Ernest
So Tung Lam
Tam Wing Fan
Tai Wing Kee
Ho Fuk Chuen
Leung Man Kit Albo

42

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Shareholder Information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate GoVerNaNCe CoDe

The Board of Directors (the “Board”) and management of the Company are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance and the Company considers that effective corporate governance makes an important contribution to corporate success 
and to the enhancement of shareholder value.

The  Company  has  adopted  its  own  corporate  governance  code  (the  “CG  Code”),  which  was  updated  in  March  2012  to  reflect 
the  new  requirements  under  the  revised  Corporate  Governance  Code  and  Corporate  Governance  Report  (the  “Revised  SEHK 
Code”) contained in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited 
(the “Listing Rules”) which was effective on 1st April 2012. In addition to applying the principles as set out in the Revised SEHK 
Code, the CG Code also incorporates and conforms to local and international best practices. The CG Code sets out the corporate 
governance principles applied by the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) and is constantly reviewed to ensure transparency, 
accountability and independence.

Throughout the period from 1st January 2012 to 31st March 2012, the Company has complied with the former Code on Corporate 
Governance Practices contained in Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules (the “Former SEHK Code”), save for the following:

•	 Code	Provision

Code provision

Deviation

Considered reason for deviation

Separation of the role 
of Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer of a listed 
issuer.

Mr. TUNG Chee Chen currently 
assumes the role of both 
Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer of the Company.

The executive members of the Board currently 
consist of chief executive officers of the principal 
division of the Group and there is effective 
separation of the roles between chief executives 
of the principal division and the Chief Executive 
Officer of the Company. The Board considers that 
further separation of the roles of Chief Executive 
Officer and Chairman would represent duplication 
and is not necessary for the time being.

•	 Recommended	Best	Practices

•	 Nomination	Committee	was	established	on	9th	March	2012
•	
•	

the	remuneration	of	senior	management	is	disclosed	in	bands
operational	results	are	announced	and	published	quarterly	instead	of	financial	results

Throughout the period from 1st April 2012 to 31st December 2012, the Company has complied with the Revised SEHK Code, save 
for the same deviations as disclosed above (except in relation to the Nomination Committee) and the following:

•	 Code	Provision

Code provision

Deviation

Considered reason for deviation

Independent Non-Executive 
Directors and other Non-
Executive Directors should 
attend general meeting.

Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward, 
an Independent Non-Executive 
Director of the Company, did not 
attend the annual general meeting 
of the Company held on 18th May 
2012.

Mr. CHENG had to chair an annual general 
meeting set a year ago and was unable to attend the 
annual general meeting of the Company on 18th 
May 2012.

43

Corporate Governance ReportOrient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We have set out in this report our guiding principles and rationale for implementation of the CG Code as well as the status of the 
Company’s compliance with Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules during the year 2012:

a.  BoarD of DireCtorS

1.  Board Composition

The  Board  currently  comprises  of  four  Executive  Directors,  two  Non-Executive  Directors  and  four  Independent  Non-
Executive Directors.

executive Directors

Mr. TUNG Chee Chen (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Kenneth Gilbert CAMBIE (Chief Financial Officer)
Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan

Non-executive Directors

Professor Roger KING
Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah*
* re-designated as a Non-Executive Director on 1st July 2012

independent Non-executive Directors

Mr. Simon MURRAY
Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest
Professor WONG Yue Chim Richard
Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward

The biographical details of the Directors and the relevant relationships between them are set out on the Company’s website 
at http://www.ooilgroup.com and on pages 36 to 38 of this annual report.

The  Directors,  other  than  Mr.  Kenneth  Gilbert  CAMBIE  who  has  a  service  contract  with  the  Company,  have  formal 
letters of appointment setting out the key terms and conditions of their appointment, and are for a fixed term of three 
years, renewable or extendable automatically by three years on the expiry of such initial term and every successive period 
of three years and are subject to re-election by rotation at least once every three years. Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah has a 
consultancy contract with the Company which will expire on 30th June 2013.

The  Directors  have  extensive  corporate  and  strategic  planning  experience  and  industry  knowledge.  All  Independent 
Non-Executive Directors are financially independent from the Group bringing independent and diversified experience, 
competencies, skills and judgment to the Group’s strategy and policies through their informed contributions. The Board 
considers that there is a reasonable balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and has provided adequate 
checks and balances for safeguarding the interests of the shareholders and the Group.

The  Company  has  received  from  each  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  a  written  annual  confirmation  of  their 
independence and considers that all the Independent Non-Executive Directors have satisfied their independence to the 
Group up to the date of this annual report.

During the year 2012, the Board has complied with the Listing Rules’ requirement in having at least three Independent Non-
Executive Directors representing at least one-third of the Board, including one with appropriate professional qualifications 
or accounting or related financial management expertise.

Among the members of the Board, Professor Roger KING (Non-Executive Director of the Company) is the brother-in-law 
of Mr. TUNG Chee Chen (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company), and both Mr. TUNG Lieh 
Cheung Andrew and Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan (both being Executive Director of the Company) are the nephews of both 
Mr. TUNG Chee Chen and Professor Roger KING.

44

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Governance ReportDirectors’ and officers’ liabilities insurance

Since 1990, the Company has arranged insurance cover for directors’ and officers’ liabilities including cover for Directors, 
officers  and  senior  management  of  the  Company  and  directors  and  officers  of  its  subsidiaries  arising  out  of  corporate 
activities.

2.  Board and Management responsibilities

The  Board  is  responsible  for  the  overall  strategic  direction  and  management  of  the  business  and  affairs  of  the  Group 
with  the  objective  of  enhancing  shareholder  value  and  presenting  a  balanced,  clear  and  understandable  assessment  of 
the Company’s performance, position and prospects in the annual and interim reports, and announcements and other 
financial disclosures as required under the Listing Rules, and reports to regulators any information required to be disclosed 
pursuant to statutory requirements.

The Board has a fiduciary duty and statutory responsibility towards the Company and the Group. Other responsibilities 
include  formulation  of  the  Group’s  overall  strategy  and  policies,  setting  of  corporate  and  management  targets  and  key 
operational  initiatives,  setting  of  policies  on  risk  management  pursuant  to  the  Group’s  strategic  objectives,  monitoring 
and  control  of  operational  and  financial  performance,  and  approval  of  budgets  and  major  capital  expenditures,  major 
investments,  material  acquisitions  and  disposals  of  assets,  corporate  or  financial  restructuring,  significant  operational 
financial and management matters.

The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business of the Group to the management of the principal division 
under  the  leadership  and  supervision  of  the  Chief  Executive  Officer,  who  will  implement  and  report  to  the  Board  on 
adoption of the Company’s strategy, policies and objectives by the principal division of the Group.

The Board also delegates certain specific responsibilities to seven committees (Executive Committee, Audit Committee, 
Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee (as of 9th March 2012), Compliance Committee, Finance Committee 
and Share Committee). The composition and functions of each committee are described below. These committees have 
specific functions and authority to examine issues and report to the Board with their recommendations (if appropriate). 
The final decision rests with the Board, unless otherwise provided for in the terms of reference of the relevant committees.

The  Company  Secretary  provides  the  Directors  with  updates  on  developments  regarding  the  Listing  Rules  and  other 
applicable regulatory requirements. Any Director may request the Company Secretary to organise independent professional 
advice at the expense of the Company to assist the Directors to effectively discharge their duties to the Company. No such 
independent professional advice was requested by any Director in 2012.

3.  Chairman and Chief executive officer

Mr. TUNG Chee Chen is the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company with the respective roles set out 
in writing.

a.  The  primary  role  of  the  Chairman  is  to  provide  leadership  to  the  Board  and  to  ensure  that  the  Board  functions 

effectively in the discharge of its responsibilities. His duties include to:

– 

– 

– 

ensure that Directors are briefed and have received timely, accurate, complete and clear information on issues 
to be discussed at Board meetings;

ensure that the Board works effectively and performs its responsibilities, and that all key and appropriate issues 
were discussed in a timely manner and that good corporate governance practices and procedures are established, 
implemented and maintained;

approve the agenda drawn up by the Company Secretary for each Board meeting taking into account any matters 
proposed by other Directors for inclusion in the agenda;

45

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Governance Report– 

– 

– 

– 

promote a culture of openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors 
(including  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors)  in  particular  and  ensuring  constructive  relations  between 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors; and encourage Directors with different views to voice their concerns, 
allow sufficient time for discussion of issues and ensure that Board decisions fairly reflect Board consensus;

at  least  annually  to  hold  meetings  with  the  Non-Executive  Directors  (including  Independent  Non-Executive 
Directors) without the presence of the other Executive Directors;

ensure effective communication with shareholders and that their views are communicated to the Board; and to

attend  the  annual  general  meetings  and  invite  the  chairmen  of  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration 
Committee, the Nomination Committee and the other Board committees, or in the absence of the chairman 
of the respective Board committees, other members of the related Board committees to be available to answer 
questions at the annual general meetings.

In case of an equality of votes at any Board meetings, the Chairman shall be entitled to a second or casting vote.

b.  The primary role of the Chief Executive Officer is to be responsible for the day-to-day management and operations 

of the Company and Group business. His duties include to:

– 

provide leadership and supervise the effective management of the principal division of the Group;

–  monitor and control the operational and financial performance of the principal division of the Group;

– 

– 

– 

implement and report to the Board on the adoption of the Company’s strategy, policies and objectives by the 
principal division of the Group;

provide information to the Board (as necessary) to enable the Board to monitor the performance of management 
and operation of the principal division of the Group; and to

set  up  programmes  for  management  development  and  succession  planning  for  the  principal  division  of  the 
Group.

4.  Board Meetings

Regular Board meetings are scheduled one year in advance to maximise the attendance of Directors. The Board meets at 
least four times each year and has a formal schedule of matters referred to it for consideration and decision. Additional 
meetings may be convened as and when necessary. Notice of at least fourteen days is served for regular Board meetings 
and reasonable notice is given for all other Board meetings. Directors are consulted and provided with an opportunity to 
include matters into the agenda for discussion at the Board meetings. The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in 
preparing the agenda for each Board meeting and to ensure that applicable rules and regulations regarding the meetings 
are observed. The final agenda together with the Board papers are distributed to the Directors at least three days before 
the Board meetings.

If a Director (who may also be a substantial shareholder of the Company) has a conflict of interest in any matter to be 
considered by the Board, the Company Secretary shall ensure that such matter is dealt with by a physical Board meeting 
rather  than  a  written  resolution.  If  considered  appropriate,  the  Board  meeting  shall  be  attended  by  Independent  Non-
Executive Directors who have no material interest in the matter. The affected Director shall abstain from voting on any 
such resolution in which they or any of their associates have a material interest and shall not be counted in the quorum 
present at that Board meeting.

The Company Secretary shall ensure that the procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed. Copies of all 
signed minutes of the Board are sent to the Directors for their record.

46

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Governance Report 
5.  professional Development

In addition to Directors’ attendance at meetings and review of papers and circulars sent by the Company, the Directors 
have participated in continuous professional development programme to develop and refresh their knowledge and skills 
to help ensure that their contribution to the Board remains informed and relevant.

The programme for continuous professional development of Directors takes various forms including:

•	

the	Company	briefing	Directors	on	important	issues	which	have	material	impact	on	the	Company’s	business,	financial	
and operational matters including major investments, corporate governance practices and funding strategy;

•	 Directors	meeting	senior	management	of	the	Group	on	issues	specific	to	the	Group’s	business;

•	 Directors	reading	materials	and	updates	on	the	regulatory	changes	followed	by	briefings	by	the	Company	Secretary	

of the Company, if requested; and

•	 Directors	attending	external	seminars	on	business,	financial,	governance,	regulatory	and	other	issues	relevant	to	the	

Group’s activities.

Below is record of participation in continuous professional development programme by the Directors of the Company in 
year 2012 relevant to the directors’ duties and responsibilities, regulatory updates and business, financial and operational 
matters of the Group.

executive Directors
Mr. TUNG Chee Chen
Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Kenneth Gilbert CAMBIE
Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan

Non-executive Directors
Professor Roger KING
Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah

independent Non-executive Directors
Mr. Simon MURRAY
Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest
Professor WONG Yue Chim Richard
Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward

reading materials

attending external 
seminars/briefings

attending 
in-house briefings/
meeting with 
senior 
management

✓
✓
✓
✓

✓
✓

✓
✓
✓
✓

✓

✓
✓
✓
✓

✓
✓

✓
✓
✓
✓

6.  Supply of and access to information

All Directors have access to Board’s and Committees’ papers and other materials either from the Company Secretary or 
the Chairman so that they are able to make informed decisions on matters placed before them.

7.  Nomination of Directors

The  Nomination  Committee  was  established  on  9th  March  2012.  The  Committee  reviews  the  structure,  size  and 
composition of the Board regularly and makes recommendation to the Board. The Company follows a formal, considered 
and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board. The appointment of a new Director is a 
collective decision of the Board, taking into consideration the expertise, experience, integrity and commitment of that 
appointee to the principal division, the Company and the Group.

47

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Director shall, after his appointment and semi-annually thereafter, disclose to the Board the number and nature of 
offices held by such Director in other public companies and organisations and any other significant commitments, together 
with the identity of the public companies and organisations and an indication of time involved.

At  the  annual  general  meeting  of  the  Company  held  on  18th  May  2012  (the  “2011  AGM”),  Mr.  TUNG  Lieh  Cheung 
Andrew, Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah, Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest and Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward retired and were 
re-elected as Directors of the Company.

8.  Board Committees

In addition to the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee (established on 9th 
March 2012) established in compliance with the Listing Rules, the other committees comprise the Executive Committee, 
the Finance Committee, the Share Committee and the Compliance Committee. Each committee has its own well defined 
scope of duties and terms of reference. The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and 
the Nomination Committee are available on the Company’s website and the HKExnews website. The Company Secretary 
shall also make available the terms of reference of all the committees to any shareholder upon receipt of a written request 
from such shareholder. The members of a committee are empowered to make decisions on matters within the terms of 
reference of such committee. Copies of all signed minutes of the committees are sent to the members of the respective 
committees and the Directors of the Company for their record.

a.  executive Committee

The Executive Committee was established in 1996. All its members are Executive Directors. It currently comprises of 
Mr. TUNG Chee Chen (chairman of the Executive Committee), Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew and Mr. Kenneth 
Gilbert CAMBIE, with Ms. Lammy LEE as the secretary of the Executive Committee.

The Executive Committee operates as an executive management committee under the direct authority of the Board. 
Its primary duties include to:

– 

formulate  strategy  and  policies  and  to  set  corporate  and  management  targets  and  operational  initiatives  and 
policies on risk management for the principal division of the Group and plans and operational directions for 
the Group;

–  monitor, control and manage operational and financial performance and business affairs of the principal division 

of the Group;

– 

– 

– 

– 

review, discuss and approve (if appropriate) (i) press announcements, circulars and other documents (including 
inside information and financial information) required to be disclosed pursuant to the Listing Rules, regulatory 
or statutory requirements; (ii) submissions from the Compliance Committee, the Finance Committee and the 
Share Committee and, if appropriate, to recommend to the Board for consideration and approval;

approve capital expenditure for a specified amount;

liaise  and  consult  with,  advise  and  make  recommendations  to  its  subsidiaries  and  make  such  decisions  with 
regard thereto as the Executive Committee shall in its absolute discretion think fit, and refer such matters as it 
thinks fit to the Board of the Company for consideration, approval and/or ratification, if necessary; and to

report to the Board on its decisions, and any matters in respect of which it considers that action is needed, and 
its recommendations as to the steps to be taken.

b.  audit Committee

The Audit Committee was established in 1992. All its members are Independent Non-Executive Director. It currently 
comprises of Professor WONG Yue Chim Richard (chairman of the Audit Committee), Mr. Simon MURRAY, Mr. 
CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest and Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward, with Mr. FUNG Yee Chung Vincent, the Head of 
Internal Audit as the secretary and Ms. Lammy LEE as the assistant secretary.

48

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Governance ReportThe  Audit  Committee  is  delegated  by  the  Board  with  the  responsibility  to  provide  an  independent  review  and 
supervision of financial reporting and to ensure the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls and the adequacy 
of the external and internal audits. To perform its duties, the Audit Committee is provided with sufficient resources 
and is supported by the Internal Audit Department to examine all matters relating to the Group’s adopted accounting 
principles  and  practices  and  to  review  all  material  financial,  operational  and  compliance  controls.  The  terms  of 
reference of the Audit Committee are posted on the OOIL website.

The primary duties of the Audit Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

recommend  to  the  Board  on  the  appointment,  reappointment  and  removal  of  the  external  auditor,  and  to 
approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor, and any questions of its resignation 
or dismissal;

act as the key representative body overseeing the Company’s relations with the external auditor;

seek from the external auditor, on an annual basis, information about policies and processes for maintaining 
independence and monitoring compliance with relevant requirements, including provision of non-audit services 
and requirements regarding rotation of audit partners and staff;

discuss with the external auditor any recommendation arising from the audit, and to review the external auditor’s 
management letter, any material queries raised by the external auditor to management about accounting records, 
financial accounts or systems of control and management’s response, and to ensure that the Board will provide 
timely response to the issues raised in the external auditor’s management letter;

establish and review from time to time the procedure to review and monitor the external auditor’s independence 
and objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process and the scope of the external auditor, and to discuss and 
understand the factors considered by the external auditor in determining the scope of the audit and reporting 
obligations before the audit commences;

establish and review from time to time the policy relating to hiring of employees or former employees of the 
external auditors and monitor the application of such policy; and to consider whether as a result of such hiring 
there has been any impairment of the auditor’s judgment or independence in respect of the audit;

establish and review from time to time the policy on engaging external auditors to supply non-audit services 
and to review such services do not impair the external auditor’s independence or objectivity in relation to non-
audit  services  including  whether  the  skills  and  experience  of  the  external  auditor  make  it  a  suitable  supplier 
of non-audit services; whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to the objectivity 
and independence of the audit because the external auditor provides non-audit services; and the nature of the 
non-audit services, the related fee levels and fee levels individually and in total relative to the external auditor;

review the Group’s financial and accounting policies and practices;

review the Company’s annual, quarterly (if prepared for publication) and interim financial reports and significant 
financial reporting judgments contained in them, with particular focus on changes in accounting policies and 
practices,  major  judgmental  areas,  any  significant  audit  adjustments,  the  going  concern  assumption  and  any 
qualifications,  compliance  with  any  applicable  legal  requirements  and  accounting  standards,  and  compliance 
with the requirements of the Listing Rules and other legal requirements in relation to financial reporting;

consider any significant or unusual items that are, or may need to be, reflected in the report and accounts and to 
give due consideration to any matters that have been raised by the Financial Compliance Officer of the Company, 
the  external  auditor,  the  Head  of  Internal  Audit  Department  or  the  staff  responsible  for  the  accounting  and 
financial reporting function;

49

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Governance Report– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review with the Group’s management, the external auditor and the internal auditor, the adequacy of the Group’s 
policies  and  procedures  regarding  internal  control  system  (including  financial,  operational  and  compliance 
controls) and risk management system to ensure that such systems are effective with audit trails to protect the 
accuracy and integrity of financial data and to pursue relevant enquiries into matters having, or likely to have, a 
material effect on the business and financial conditions of the Group. The result of the review is to be reported 
in the Corporate Governance Report of the Company, including a Directors’ statement that they have conducted 
a review of its internal control system;

discuss with the management the scope and quality of the internal control system and to ensure that management 
has performed its duty to have an effective internal control system including the adequacy of resources, staff 
qualifications and experience, training programmes and budget and experience of staff of the accounting and 
financial reporting function;

review findings of internal investigation and management’s response into any suspected frauds or irregularities 
or failures of internal controls or infringements of laws, rules and regulations;

review the scope and effectiveness of the internal audit functions and to review the results of the internal audit 
functions regularly with the internal auditor matters including planning of the Audit Committee meetings and, 
if  required  by  the  internal  auditor,  the  internal  audit  programme;  and  to  ensure  co-ordination  between  the 
internal and external auditors and that the internal audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate 
standing within the Company and to review and monitor its effectiveness;

review the effectiveness and monitor the use of the whistleblowing policy and procedures for employees to raise 
concerns, in confidence, to the Audit Committee about improprieties in financial reporting, internal control 
and other matters; and to ensure that proper arrangements are in place for fair and independent investigation 
of these improprieties and for appropriate follow-up action;

report to the Board on the matters raised in the Revised SEHK Code; and to

report to the Board, identifying and making recommendations on any matters where action or improvement is 
needed and to consider other topics identified and referred to the Audit Committee by the Board.

Under the Group’s whistleblowing policy, employees may report any concern regarding accounting, internal accounting 
controls and auditing matters to the Audit Committee without fear of dismissal or retaliation, in order to ensure that 
the Group complies with all the applicable laws and regulations, accounting standards, accounting controls and audit 
practices. The Audit Committee will review each complaint and decide on how the investigation should be conducted. 
In 2012, the Audit Committee received no complaint from employees.

The Audit Committee held two meetings during the year ended 31st December 2012. The following is a summary of 
work performed by the Audit Committee during 2012:

(i) 

reviewed and discussed the annual accounts for 2011 and the interim accounts for 2012 with the external auditor 
and management of the Company, with recommendations to the Board for approval;

(ii)  reviewed the significant audit and accounting issues arising from the external auditor’s statutory audit of the 

2011 annual accounts and issues arising from the review of the 2012 interim accounts;

(iii)  reviewed the impact of the new and revised accounting standards on the Company;

(iv)  reviewed the external auditor’s audit strategy and approach;

(v)  reviewed the non-audit services provided by the external auditor in 2011;

(vi)  reviewed the Internal Audit Department’s audit objectives and approval of the annual internal audit plan;

(vii)  reviewed the findings and recommendations of the Internal Audit Department on the audits carried out on the 

principal activities of the Group during the year 2011;

50

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Governance Report(viii) reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems;

(ix)  reviewed  the  relevant  sections  in  the  Corporate  Governance  Report  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2011 

concerning the Audit Committee;

(x)  reviewed the adequacy of the resources, staff qualifications and experience, training programmes and budget of 

the Company’s accounting and financial reporting function;

(xi)  reviewed the continuing connected transactions and their annual caps; and

(xii)  reviewed the continuous implementation of the whistleblowing policy.

The minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are prepared by the secretary of the Audit Committee with details of 
all matters considered by the attendees and of decisions reached, including any concern raised by the attendees and 
dissenting views expressed. The final version of the minutes is sent to the attendees for their records. The minutes 
are open for inspection by the Committee members and the Board members.

c.  remuneration Committee

The Remuneration Committee was established in 2005. A majority of its members are Independent Non-Executive 
Directors. It currently comprises of Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest (chairman of the Remuneration Committee with 
effect from 9th March 2012), Mr. TUNG Chee Chen and Professor WONG Yue Chim Richard, with Ms. Lammy LEE 
as the secretary of the Remuneration Committee.

The primary duties of the Remuneration Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review and recommend to the Board on the Company’s policy and structure of the remuneration of the Directors 
of the Company, senior management and employees of the Group including performance-based bonus scheme on 
the basis that they are fairly but responsibly rewarded for their individual contribution to the overall performance 
of the Company;

establish and review a formal and transparent procedure for developing remuneration policy;

(i) review and approve the management’s remuneration proposals with reference to the Board’s corporate goals 
and objectives; and determine with delegated responsibilities the remuneration packages of individual Executive 
Directors of the Company and senior management; and (ii) recommend to the Board on the remuneration of 
the Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

consult the Chairman of the Board and/or Chief Executive Officer of the Company about their remuneration 
proposals for the other Executive Directors of the Company and senior management;

review and approve compensation payable to the Executive Directors of the Company and senior management 
for any loss or termination of office or appointment to ensure that it is consistent with contractual terms and is 
otherwise fair and not excessive;

review and approve compensation arrangements relating to dismissal or removal of Directors for misconduct 
to ensure that they are consistent with contractual terms and are otherwise reasonable and appropriate;

ensure  that  no  Director  or  any  of  his  associates  or  senior  management  is  involved  in  deciding  his  own 
remuneration; and to

advise the Board any matters relating to the remuneration or reward of the Executive Directors of the Company 
or senior management or employees of the Group.

51

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Governance ReportThe Remuneration Committee held three meetings during the year ended 31st December 2012. The following is a 
summary of work performed by the Remuneration Committee during 2012, including:

(i) 

reviewed and recommended to the Board the Company’s policy and remuneration structure of the Directors of 
the Company, and the senior management and employees of the Group;

(ii)  reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  or  determined,  as  the  case  may  be,  the  discretionary  management 
bonus of the Executive Directors of the Company, and the senior management and employees of the Group for 
the year 2011;

(iii)  reviewed and recommended to the Board or determined, as the case may be, the remuneration packages of the 

Directors of the Company, and the senior management and employees of the Group for the year 2012;

(iv)  recommended to the Board the engagement of a consultant to review the remuneration policies and practices 

of the Group, including the discretionary management bonus of the Group;

(v)  reviewed  a  consultant  report  on  the  current  audit  of  the  remuneration  policies  and  practices  of  the  Group 

confirming that:

– 

– 

– 

– 

the existing remuneration policies and practices of the Company are in full compliance with the regulations 
and guidelines of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Stock Exchange”);

a significant proportion of the remuneration of the Executive Directors of the Company should be linked 
to corporate and individual performance;

there should be market benchmarking in determining remuneration levels; and

the Company should have clearly stated remuneration policies underpin its actual practices.

No Director is involved in determining his own remuneration.

d.  Nomination Committee

The  Nomination  Committee  was  established  on  9th  March  2012.  A  majority  of  its  members  of  the  Nomination 
Committee are Independent Non-Executive Directors and currently comprises of Mr. TUNG Chee Chen (chairman 
of the Nomination Committee), Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest and Professor WONG Yue Chim Richard, with Ms. 
Lammy LEE as the secretary of the Nomination Committee.

The primary duties of the Nomination Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review and make recommendation to the Board on the Company’s policy for nomination of Directors;

establish and review a formal, considered and transparent procedures for the appointment of new directors and 
have plans in place for orderly succession for appointments;

review  the  structure,  size  and  composition  (including  the  skills,  knowledge  and  experience)  of  the  Board  at 
least annually and recommend on any proposed changes to the Board to complement the Company’s corporate 
strategy;

identify, nominate and recommend to the Board suitably qualified candidate to become a director of the Company 
either to fill a casual vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board;

recommend to the Board on the appointment or re-appointment/re-election of Directors and succession planning 
for Directors;

assess and report to the Board the qualifications of any person proposed by a shareholder of the Company for 
election as a director of the Company to ensure compliance with the nomination policy of the Company and 
the requirements as provided in the Listing Rules are satisfied;

52

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Governance Report– 

– 

– 

assess the independence of Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

regularly review and report to the Board the contribution required from a Director of the Company to perform 
his responsibilities and whether he is spending sufficient time performing them; and to

assess performance of the Executive Directors and conduct a regular evaluation of the Board’s performance by 
a member of the Nomination Committee, who is an Independent Non-Executive Director, and report results of 
the evaluation to the Board.

The Nomination Committee held one meeting and passed resolutions by way of written resolution during the year 
ended 31st December 2012. The following is a summary of work performed by the Nomination Committee during 
2012, including:

(i) 

recommended to the Board the re-designation of Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah from an Executive Director to a 
Non-Executive Director and to remain as a member of the Finance Committee and the Share Committee of the 
Company; and his appointment as a consultant of the Company;

(ii)  recommended  to  the  Board  the  renewal  of  a  letter  of  appointment  for  Mr.  CHENG  Wai  Sun  Edward,  an 

Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company; and

(iii)  recommended to the Board the nomination of Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew, an Executive Director of the 

Company, as the chief executive officer of Orient Overseas Container Line, a principal division of the Group.

e.  Compliance Committee

The Compliance Committee was established in 2004 and currently comprises of Ms. Lammy LEE (chairperson of 
the Compliance Committee), Mr. Kenneth Gilbert CAMBIE (Executive Director), Mr. MOK Yun Lee Paul and Mr. 
FUNG  Yee  Chung  Vincent.  The  Board  has  delegated  the  responsibility  for  monitoring  the  corporate  governance 
compliance to the Compliance Committee.

The primary duties of the Compliance Committee include to:

– 

review, monitor and provide administrative support on the compliance control of the Group and compliance of 
the following corporate governance functions of the Company:

(a)  on the Company’s policies and practices on corporate governance and make recommendations to the Board;

(b)  on the training and continuous professional development of Directors and senior management of the Group;

(c)  on the Company’s policies and practices on compliance with legal and regulatory requirements;

(d)  on the development of the code of conduct and compliance manuals (if any) applicable to employees and 

Directors;

(e)  on the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and the Revised SEHK Code;

(f) 

to report the above items (a) to (e) to the Board regularly; and

(g) 

to  prepare  (i)  the  Corporate  Governance  Report  covering  all  mandatory  disclosure  requirements  as  set 
out in the Listing Rules; and/or (ii) information required to be disclosed by the Compliance Committee in 
the Company’s results announcements, the annual reports, the interim reports and any other documents, 
pursuant to the Listing Rules;

– 

review and report to the Board regularly the shareholders’ communication policy to ensure its effectiveness; and 
to

53

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Governance Report– 

ensure the Company is in compliance with the Listing Rules including disclosure and compliance obligations for 
matters including notifiable transactions, connected transactions, continuing connected transactions, advance 
to an entity, financial assistance and guarantees to affiliated companies of the Company, loan agreements with 
covenants  relating  to  specific  performance  of  the  controlling  shareholder  of  the  Company,  breach  of  a  loan 
agreement by the Company, disclosure of financial information pursuant to Appendix 16 to the Listing Rules, 
and general obligations of disclosure under Rule 13.09 of the Listing Rules.

The Compliance Committee held three meetings and passed resolutions by way of written resolution during the year 
ended 31st December 2012. The following is a summary of work performed by the Compliance Committee during 
2012, including:

(i) 

reviewed and reported to the Board on the amendments to the Former SEHK Code and the Listing Rules;

(ii)  reviewed and recommended to the Board the revisions to the Company’s CG Code and the terms of reference 

of the Compliance Committee;

(iii)  developed  and  reviewed  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  corporate  governance  and  made 

recommendations to the Board;

(iv)  reviewed  the  Company’s  compliance  with  the  CG  Code  and  the  Revised  SEHK  Code  and  the  disclosure 

requirements in the Corporate Governance Report;

(v)  reviewed  and  monitored  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  compliance  with  legal  and  regulatory 

requirements, particularly in the areas of legal, financial and accounting, internal control and audit;

(vi)  reviewed  and  monitored  the  code  of  conduct  and  compliance  applicable  to  employees  and  Directors  of  the 

Company;

(vii)  reviewed and monitored the training and continuous professional development of Directors of the Company;

(viii) reviewed the continuing connected transactions and significant contracts of the Group; and

(ix)  reviewed and reported to the Board on the effectiveness of the shareholders’ communication policy.

f.  finance Committee

The Finance Committee was established in 1993 and currently comprises of Mr. Kenneth Gilbert CAMBIE (chairman 
of the Finance Committee), Professor Roger KING, Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah and Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest, 
with Ms. Lammy LEE as the secretary of the Finance Committee.

The primary duties of the Finance Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

assist in the financial requirements of the Group including financing, refinancing, leasing, purchase and sale of 
vessels, properties and equipment and the financing of the business operations of the Group;

report to the Board on its decisions, and any matters in respect of which it considers that action is needed, and 
its recommendations as to the steps to be taken; and to

discuss  and  review  the  disclosure  obligations  of  the  Company  on  financial,  accounting  or  related  issues  on 
compliance with the Listing Rules and refer transactions with their recommendations to the Executive Committee 
of the Company for its endorsement and/or approval.

54

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Governance Reportg.  Share Committee

The Share Committee was established in 1992 and currently comprises of Mr. Kenneth Gilbert CAMBIE (chairman 
of the Share Committee), Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah and Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest, with Ms. Lammy LEE 
as the secretary of the Share Committee.

The primary duties of the Share Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

deal with and grant approval on the removal of the ordinary shares of the Company from the Principal Register 
in Bermuda to the Branch Register in Hong Kong or vice versa;

deal with share transactions including, but not limited to, share repurchases, issue of bonus shares, scrip dividend 
schemes, top up placings, share subscriptions and placement of the Company’s shares;

give  authorisation  to  the  Company’s  Principal  Registrar  and  Branch  Registrar  to  issue  share  certificates  to 
shareholders who have reported loss of share certificates and in connection with the above share transactions; 
and to

discuss and review the disclosure obligations of the Company on share transactions and compliance with the 
Listing Rules.

9.  attendance records of Board Meetings, Board Committees Meetings and General Meetings

The attendance records of each Director and each member of the seven* Board Committees at the relevant meetings held 
in year 2012 are as follows:

No. of meetings held during the year

executive Directors
Mr. TUNG Chee Chen 

(Chairman, President and Chief Executive 

  Officer)
Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Kenneth Gilbert CAMBIE 
(Chief Financial Officer)
Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan

Non-executive Directors
Professor Roger KING
Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah**

independent Non-executive Directors
Mr. Simon MURRAY
Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest
Professor WONG Yue Chim Richard
Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward

others
Ms. Lammy LEE (Company Secretary)
Mr. MOK Yun Lee Paul 

(Group Financial Controller)
Mr. FUNG Yee Chung Vincent 

(Chief Auditor)

Board

6

6/6
6/6

6/6
5/6

6/6
5/6

2/6
6/6
4/6
5/6

–

–

–

executive 
Committee

audit 
Committee

10

10/10
10/10

10/10
–

–
4/4

–
–
–
–

–

–

–

2

–
–

–
–

–
–

1/2
2/2
2/2
2/2

–

–

–

Meetings attended/Held in 2012
Nomination 
Committee*

remuneration 
Committee

Compliance 
Committee

finance 
Committee

Share 
Committee

2011 aGM

3

1

3/3
–

–
–

–
–

–
3/3
3/3
–

–

–

–

1/1
–

–
–

–
–

–
1/1
1/1
–

–

–

–

3

–
–

3/3
–

–
–

–
–
–
–

3/3

3/3

3/3

2

–
–

2/2
–

2/2
2/2

–
2/2
–
–

–

–

–

0

–
–

0
–

–
0

–
0
–
–

–

–

–

1

1/1
1/1

1/1
1/1

1/1
1/1

1/1
1/1
1/1
0/1

–

–

–

average attendance rate

85.00%

100%

87.50%

100%

100%

100%

100%

0%

90%

* 

** 

Nomination Committee was established on 9th March 2012

re-designated as a Non-Executive Director and ceased as a member of the Executive Committee both with effect from 1st July 2012

55

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  Securities transactions by Directors

The Company has adopted its own code of conduct regarding securities transactions by Directors on terms no less exacting 
than the required standard set out in the Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers (the “Model 
Code”) contained in Appendix 10 to the Listing Rules.

All Directors have confirmed, following specific enquiry by the Company, that they have fully complied with the required 
standards set out in both the Company’s own code and the Model Code for the year ended 31st December 2012.

11.  Share interests of Directors and Senior Management

a.  Directors

Directors’ interests in the shares of the Company are set out on pages 63 and 64 of this annual report.

b.  Senior Management

As at 31st December 2012, the number of shares of the Company held by the senior management of the Company 
are as follows:

Name

Mr. Allan WONG
Mr. Bosco LOUIE*
Mr. Steve SIU
Mr. Erxin YAO
Mr. Michael KWOK
Mr. Stephen NG
Ms. Lammy LEE

* 

retired on 1st January 2013

Number of shares held

310,000
120,000
–
5,000
–
–
–

12.  emoluments of Directors and Senior Management#

a.  emoluments of Directors

The emoluments of the Directors of the Company for the year ended 31st December 2012 are set out on page 101 of 
this annual report.

b.  emoluments of Senior Management

The emoluments of the senior management of the Company for the year ended 31st December 2012 are set out below:

emolument bands (US$)

320,501 – 384,600
384,601 – 448,700

Total

#  biographical details of senior management are set out on page 39 of this annual report

Number of individuals 
2012

6
1

7

56

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.  aCCoUNtaBilitY aND aUDit

1.  external auditor

PricewaterhouseCoopers was re-appointed as the Company’s external auditor by shareholders at the 2011 AGM until the 
conclusion of the next annual general meeting.

The Company has established a policy on appointment of external auditor in providing non-audit services, setting out 
the principles by which an external auditor may be appointed to provide non-audit services, with a view to ensuring the 
independence of the external auditor.

The fee in respect of audit and non-audit services provided by the external auditors to the Company for the year ended 
31st December 2012 is set out on page 103 note 11 to the consolidated accounts of this annual report.

2.  Directors’ and auditor’s acknowledgement

All Directors acknowledge their responsibility for preparing the accounts for the year ended 31st December 2012.

PricewaterhouseCoopers, the auditor of the Company, acknowledges the reporting responsibilities in the auditor’s report 
on the financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2012.

3.  internal Controls

The  Board  is  responsible  for  maintaining  sound  and  effective  internal  control  systems  for  the  Group,  and  through  the 
Audit Committee, conducts reviews of the effectiveness of such systems at least annually, covering all material controls 
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management functions. The process used in reviewing the 
effectiveness of these internal control systems includes discussion with management on risk areas identified by management 
of  the  Company  and  principal  division  and  review  of  significant  issues  arising  from  internal  and  external  audits.  The 
Company’s internal control systems comprise a well established organisational structure and comprehensive policies and 
standards. Procedures have been designed to safeguard assets against unauthorised use or disposition, to maintain proper 
accounting records, for assurance of the reliability of financial information for internal use or publication, and to ensure 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The purpose of the Company’s internal control is to provide reasonable, 
but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss and to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure in 
operational systems and achievement of the Company’s objectives.

The Board has established the following measures to provide effective internal controls:

–  A  distinct  organisational  structure  for  the  principal  division  with  defined  authority  responsibilities  and  control/

measures.

–  An annual budget for the principal division allocating resources in accordance with identified and prioritised business 

opportunities. The annual budget for the principal division is approved by the Board on an annual basis.

–  A  comprehensive  management  accounting  system  for  the  principal  division  to  provide  financial  and  operational 
performance indicators to the relevant management, and financial information for reporting and disclosure purposes. 
Actual operational results are measured against budget each month. Detailed forecasts for the year and long-term 
forecasts of profit and loss, cash flow and balance sheets are regularly reviewed and updated. Variances to budget are 
analysed and explained and appropriate action taken, if necessary.

– 

– 

Systems and procedures are in place to identify, measure, manage and control risks including business, compliance, 
operational, financial and information services risks that may have an impact on the Group and the principal division. 
Exposure to these risks is monitored by the Executive Committee and the management of the principal division.

Clearly defined procedures are in place for the control of capital and major expenditure commitments, off-balance 
sheet financial instruments and the supervision, control and review of the investment portfolio.

57

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Governance Report– 

The  Internal  Audit  Department  performs  independent  reviews  of  the  risks  and  controls  identified  to  provide 
reasonable assurance to management of the Company and principal division and the Audit Committee that controls 
have been set in place and adequately addressed.

The  internal  audit  function,  which  is  centrally  controlled,  monitors  compliance  with  policies  and  standards  as  well  as 
the effectiveness of internal control structures across the Company and the Group. To preserve the independence of the 
internal audit function, the Head of Internal Audit reports functionally to the Audit Committee whose chairman is an 
Independent Non-Executive Director who has direct access to the Board. Using a risk-based approach, the Internal Audit 
Department  plans  its  internal  audit  schedules  annually  in  consultation  with,  but  independent  of,  management  of  the 
Company and the principal division. The Internal Audit Department has unrestricted access to information that allows it 
to review all aspects of the Group’s risk management, control and governance processes. Independent reviews of different 
financial, business and functional operations and activities are conducted with audit resources being focused on high risk 
areas. Ad hoc reviews are also conducted on areas of concern identified by the Audit Committee and management of the 
Company and the principal division. The management of the Company and the principal division including the affected 
subsidiary are notified of the deficiencies noted for rectification, and the Internal Audit Department follows up with the 
implementation of audit recommendations.

The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board assesses the effectiveness of the internal control system including detecting 
fraud  and  other  irregularities  by  reviewing  the  Internal  Audit  Department’s  work  and  findings.  On  a  yearly  basis,  the 
Internal Audit Department summarises the major audit findings and other relevant information that have come to the 
Internal Audit Department’s attention during the course of the audits and reports to the Audit Committee.

According to the 2012 Internal Audit report, the Group’s internal control system is functioning effectively and there was 
no significant weakness found in the course of the audits carried out during the year. The Audit Committee has concluded 
that the Group has maintained sound and effective internal controls to safeguard the Group’s assets, and there is an ongoing 
process in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The Board, therefore, 
is of the view that there are no significant frauds, irregularities, internal control deficiencies or suspected infringement of 
laws, rules and regulations that cause the Board to believe that the systems of internal control are ineffective or inadequate, 
and there are no significant areas of concern which may affect shareholders. The Board is satisfied that the Company and 
the Group have fully complied with the code provisions on internal control as set forth in the Revised SEHK Code for the 
year ended 31st December 2012.

To ensure on-going compliance with the Revised SEHK Code, the Audit Committee reviewed the adequacy of staffing of 
the accounting and financial reporting function on behalf of the Board and was satisfied with the adequacy of resources, 
staff qualifications and experience, training programmes and budget of the Company’s accounting and financial reporting 
function.

The  Company  has  implemented  the  following  procedures  and  internal  controls  for  the  handling  and  dissemination  of 
inside information:

a) 

it monitors any inside information and makes appropriate announcement as required by the Listing Rules;

b) 

it  conducts  its  affairs  by  reference  to  the  “Guide  on  disclosure  of  price-sensitive  information”  issued  by  the  Stock 
Exchange;

c) 

it has established procedures for handling external affairs about the Group; and

d) 

it has established guidelines to be followed by senior management and employees in dealing with confidential and 
inside information.

58

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Governance ReportC.  CoMMUNiCatioN WitH SHareHolDerS

The Company attaches great importance to communications with shareholders. Extensive information on the Group’s activities, 
business strategies and developments is provided in the Company’s annual reports and interim reports. Shareholders of the 
Company are encouraged to attend the annual general meetings of the Company which offer a valuable forum for dialogue 
and interaction with management. The Chairman of the Board and the chairmen of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration 
Committee, the Nomination Committee (established on 9th March 2012) and other Board committees, or in their absence, 
another member of the relevant committee, are available at the annual general meetings to answer questions from shareholders 
on the business of the Group. A separate resolution is proposed by the Chairman in respect of each issue at the general meetings.

The Company has also established a shareholders’ communication policy to ensure shareholders are provided with ready, equal 
and timely access to balanced and understandable information about the Company. The policy is regularly reviewed to ensure 
its effectiveness and is available on written request to the Company Secretary.

The  most  recent  shareholders’  meeting  of  the  Company  was  the  2011  AGM  held  at  the  Renaissance  Harbour  View  Hotel, 
Wanchai, Hong Kong on 18th May 2012, at which the following ordinary resolutions were passed with the voting results as 
follows:

ordinary resolutions

1.

To consider and adopt the audited Financial Statements and the Reports 
of the Directors and the Auditor for the year ended 31st December 2011.

2(a). To re-elect Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew as Director.

2(b). To re-elect Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah as Director.

2(c). To re-elect Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest as Director.

2(d). To re-elect Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward as Director.

3.

4.

To authorise the Board of Directors to fix the Directors’ remuneration.

To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers as Auditor and to authorise the 
Board of Directors to fix their remuneration.

5(a). To grant a general mandate to the Directors to allot, issue and deal with 

the Company’s shares.

5(b). To grant a general mandate to the Directors to repurchase the Company’s 

shares.

5(c). To extend the general mandate to issue shares to cover the shares 

repurchased by the Company under Resolution No. 5(b) above.

Number of Votes (%)

for

510,230,352
(100%)

494,820,549
(97.553323%)

494,818,549
(96.979347%)

509,159,263
(99.571868%)

449,602,539
(87.935674%)

504,442,178
(99.098233%)

497,116,359
(97.216741%)

443,685,066
(86.767646%)

511,239,967
(100%)

444,283,521
(86.884681%)

against

0
(0%)

12,410,303
(2.446677%)

15,412,303
(3.020653%)

2,189,249
(0.428132%)

61,683,153
(12.064326%)

4,590,289
(0.901767%)

14,232,153
(2.783259%)

67,663,446
(13.232354%)

0
(0%)

67,064,991
(13.115319%)

Since the publication of the Company’s 2010 interim report, the Company has offered to the shareholders of the Company the 
following options to choose the language and means of receipt of the corporate communications of the Company in support 
of environment protection and for the purpose of saving printing and mailing costs:

(1) 

to read the corporate communication published on the Company’s website at http://www.ooilgroup.com in place of receiving 
printed copies, and receive an e-mail notification or a printed notification letter (as the case may be) of the publication of 
the corporate communication on website; or

(2) 

to receive either the printed English version, the printed Chinese version or both the printed English and Chinese versions 
of the Company’s corporate communication.

59

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D.  SHareHolDerS’ riGHtS

1.  Convening a special general meeting

Pursuant to the Bermuda Companies Act and the Company’s Bye-law, the shareholder(s) of the Company holding not less 
than one-tenth of the paid up capital of the Company having the right to vote at general meetings of the Company shall 
have the right, by written requisition sent to the Company’s registered office at Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton 
HM11, Bermuda and to the Company’s principal office at 33rd Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong 
Kong, for the attention of the Company Secretary of the Company, to require a special general meeting (the “SGM”) to be 
called by the Board for the transaction of any business specified in such requisition.

The written requisition must state the purposes of the general meeting, signed by the shareholder(s) concerned and may 
consist of several documents in like form, each signed by one or more of those shareholders.

Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  Company’s  branch  share  registrar  (the  “Registrar”)  that  the  shareholder(s) 
submitting the requisition is/are qualified to attend and vote at any general meeting, the Company will convene a SGM by 
serving sufficient notice in accordance with the statutory requirements to all the registered shareholders.

2.  putting forward proposals at general meetings

The shareholder(s) of the Company holding (i) not less than one-twentieth of the total voting rights of all shareholders 
having the right to vote at the general meeting of the Company; or (ii) not less than 100 shareholders of the Company, 
can submit:

(i) 

a written request stating the resolution intended to be moved at an annual general meeting; or

(ii)  a statement of not more than 1,000 words with respect to the matter referred to in any proposed resolution or the 

business to be dealt with at a particular general meeting.

The written request/statement must be signed by the shareholder(s) concerned and deposited at the Company’s registered 
office at Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda and to the Company’s principal office at 33rd Floor, 
Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong, for the attention of the Company Secretary of the Company, 
not less than six weeks before the annual general meeting in the case of a requisition requiring notice of a resolution and 
not less than one week before the general meeting in the case of any other requisition.

Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  Registrar  of  the  Company  that  the  shareholder(s)  making  the  proposal  is/are 
qualified to attend and vote at the general meeting, the Company will:

(i) 

include the resolution in the agenda for the annual general meeting; or

(ii)  circulate the statement for the general meeting,

provided that the shareholder(s) concerned have deposited a sum of money sufficient to meet the Company’s expenses in 
serving the notice of the resolution and/or circulating the statement to all the registered shareholders.

3.  putting enquiries to the Board

Shareholders who have enquiries to put to the Board of the Company may write to the Company Secretary of the Company 
at 33rd Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong.

60

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Governance Reporte.  iNVeStor relatioNS

The  Company  continues  to  promote  and  enhance  investor  relations  and  communication  with  its  investors.  The  Company’s 
investor relations team maintains regular dialogue with institutional investors, analysts and fund managers to keep them abreast 
of the Group’s development.

Shareholders, investors and members of the public are able to access up-to-date corporate information and events related to 
the Group on the Company’s website.

1.  Shareholdings information

As at 31st December 2012:

Authorised  share  capital:  US$205,000,000,  comprising  900,000,000  ordinary  shares  of  US$0.1  each,  65,000,000  limited 
voting convertible redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each and 50,000,000 redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each.

Issued and fully-paid up capital: US$62,579,329.7 comprising 625,793,297 ordinary shares of US$0.1 each.

Details of the shareholding of the ordinary shares of the Company by category as at 31st December 2012 are as follows:

Category

Corporate
Individual

Total

Number of 
Shareholders

27
1,004

1,031

Shareholders 
% of total

2.6188%
97.3812%

100.00%

Number of 
Shares

619,676,815
6,116,482

625,793,297

Details of the shareholding of the ordinary shares of the Company by range as at 31st December 2012 are as follows:

Number of Shares held

Number of Shareholders

Shareholders % of total

1 – 10,000
10,001 – 100,000
100,001 – 1,000,000
1,000,001 or above

Total

2.  public float

955
67
5
4

1,031

92.6285%
6.4985%
0.4850%
0.3880%

100.00%

Based on information that is publicly available to the Company and within the knowledge of the Directors, the percentage 
of its public float exceeds 25% as at 31st December 2012.

3.  financial Calendar

Important dates for the coming financial year are set out on page 40 of this annual report.

4.  Memorandum of association and Bye-laws

There are no changes to the memorandum of association and bye-laws of the Company (the “Constitutional Documents”) 
during the year. The consolidated version of the Constitutional Documents is available on the Company’s website and the 
HKExnews website.

61

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors of the Company present their report together with the audited accounts for the year ended 31st December 
2012.

priNCipal aCtiVitieS

The principal activity of the Company is investment holding and the activities of its principal subsidiaries, associated companies 
and jointly controlled entities are set out on pages 132 to 141 of this annual report.

GroUp reSUltS

The consolidated results of the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Group”) are set out on page 71 of this 
annual report.

DiViDeNDS

An interim dividend of US4.66 cents (HK$0.363) per ordinary share was paid on 15th October 2012.

The Board of Directors of the Company has recommended the payment of a final dividend of US7.18 cents (HK$0.56 at the exchange 
rate of US$1: HK$7.8) per ordinary share for the year ended 31st December 2012 to be paid on 6th June 2013 to the shareholders 
of the Company whose names appear on the register of members of the Company on 8th May 2013. Shareholders should complete 
the Dividend Election Form (if applicable) and return it to the Company’s Hong Kong branch share registrar, Computershare Hong 
Kong Investor Services Limited, not later than 4:30 p.m. on 29th May 2013.

DireCtorS

The Directors of the Company during the year and up to the date of this report were:

executive Directors

Mr. TUNG Chee Chen (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Kenneth Gilbert CAMBIE (Chief Financial Officer)
Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan

Non-executive Directors

Professor Roger KING
Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah*
* 

re-designated as a Non-Executive Director on 1st July 2012

independent Non-executive Directors

Mr. Simon MURRAY
Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest
Professor WONG Yue Chim Richard
Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward

In accordance with the provisions of the Company’s Bye-laws, Mr. Tung Chee Chen, Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan, Professor Roger King 
and Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard will retire by rotation at the annual general meeting of the Company to be held on 26th April 
2013 (the “Annual General Meeting”) and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.

Mr. Kenneth Gilbert Cambie has a service contract with the Company which will expire on 12th July 2013. Mr. Chow Philip Yiu 
Wah has a consultancy contract with the Company which will expire on 30th June 2013. None of the Directors has a service contract 
with the Company or any of its subsidiaries which is not determinable by the employing company within one year without payment 
of compensation, other than statutory compensation.

The  Company  has  received  from  each  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  confirmation  of  his  independence  pursuant  to  Rule 
3.13 of the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”) and the 
Company considers all of the Independent Non-Executive Directors are independent.

62

Report of the DirectorsOrient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012DireCtorS’ riGHtS to aCqUire SHareS or DeBeNtUreS

Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries was a party to any arrangements to enable the Directors of the Company to acquire 
benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate at any time during 
the year or at the end of the year.

DireCtorS’ iNtereSt

1.  Significant Contracts

The Group shares the rental of office space at Harbour Centre, Hong Kong on an actual cost reimbursement basis with Island 
Navigation Corporation International Limited (“INCIL”), which is owned by a Tung family trust. The total amount of rental 
on an actual cost reimbursement basis paid by INCIL to the Group for the year ended 31st December 2012 was approximately 
US$1,260,000.

Yuensung Investment Company Limited (“Yuensung”), a company controlled by Mr. C U Tung, the uncle of Mr. Tung Chee 
Chen, also shares the rental of an office at Harbour Centre, Hong Kong with our Group. The total amount of rental on an actual 
cost reimbursement basis paid by Yuensung to the Group for the year ended 31st December 2012 was approximately US$73,000.

Except for the above (other than contracts amongst Group companies), no other contracts or arrangements of significance in 
relation to the Group’s business to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party, and in which a Director of the 
Company had a material interest, subsisted at the year end or at any time during the year.

2.  Shares

As at 31st December 2012, the issued share capital of the Company (the “Issued Capital”) consisted of 625,793,297 ordinary 
shares (the “Shares”). The interests and short positions of the Directors and the Chief Executive of the Company in the Shares, 
the underlying Shares and the debentures of the Company or any of its associated corporations (within the meaning of Part 
XV  of  the  Securities  and  Futures  Ordinance  (“SFO”))  as  recorded  in  the  register  kept  by  the  Company  pursuant  to  Section 
352 of the SFO or otherwise notified to the Company and The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Stock Exchange”) 
pursuant to the Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers (the “Model Code”) contained in the 
Listing Rules, were as follows:–

Name

Tung Chee Chen

Chang Tsann Rong Ernest
Chow Philip Yiu Wah

Simon Murray
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard

Notes:

Direct interests other interests

–

612,731
133,100

10,000
–

429,950,088
(Notes 1 & 2)
–
20,000
(Note 3)
–
500
(Note 4)

total number
of Shares
(long position)

percentage

429,950,088

68.705%

612,731
153,100

10,000
500

0.098%
0.024%

0.002%
0.00008%

1.  Mr. Tung Chee Chen has an interest in a trust which, through Artson Global Limited (“Artson”) as trustee, holds shares of Thelma Holdings 
Limited (“Thelma”), which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares, in which Fortune Crest Inc. (“Fortune Crest”) and Gala Way Company 
Inc.  (“Gala  Way”),  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  of  Thelma,  have  direct  interests  in  350,722,656  Shares  and  79,227,432  Shares  respectively.  The 
voting rights in respect of such 429,950,088 Shares are held by Mr. Tung Chee Chen through Tung Holdings (Trustee) Inc. (“THTI”).

2. 

Fortune Crest and Gala Way together are referred to as the controlling shareholders.

3. 

20,000 Shares are held by the spouse of Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah.

4. 

500 Shares are held by the spouse of Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard.

63

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Report of the Directors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Save as disclosed above, as at 31st December 2012, none of the Directors or the Chief Executive of the Company had any interest 
or short position in the Shares, the underlying Shares and the debentures of the Company or any of its associated corporation 
(within the meaning of the SFO) which were required to be: (a) notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange pursuant 
to Divisions 7 and 8 of Part XV of the SFO (including interests and short positions which they are taken or deemed to have 
under such provisions of the SFO); or (b) entered in the register kept by the Company pursuant to Section 352 of the SFO; or 
(c) notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange pursuant to the Model Code.

Save as disclosed in below section “Substantial Shareholders’ Share Interest”, as at 31st December 2012, none of the Directors 
or the Chief Executive of the Company is a director or an employee of a company which had an interest or short position in 
the Shares and the underlying Shares which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of Divisions 2 and 
3 of Part XV of the SFO.

3.  Directors’ interests in Competing Business

As at 31st December 2012, none of the Directors and their respective associates (as defined in the Listing Rules) had any interest 
in a business, which competes or may compete with the business of the Group.

SUBStaNtial SHareHolDerS’ SHare iNtereSt

As at 31st December 2012, the following persons (other than the Directors or the Chief Executive of the Company) had an interest 
or short position in the Shares and the underlying Shares which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of 
Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO as recorded in the register required to be kept by the Company under Section 336 of the SFO:

Name

Artson Global Limited *

Hanberry Global Limited

Thelma Holdings Limited *

Tung Chee Hwa

Nature of interest

Trustee

Trustee

Indirect

Indirect

Archmore Investment Limited *

Beneficiary of a trust

Edgemont Holdings Limited *

Javier Global Limited *

Indirect

Indirect

Bartlock Assets Ltd.

Beneficiary of a trust

Flowell Development Inc.

Beneficiary of a trust

Izone Capital Limited *

Beneficiary of a trust

Jeference Capital Inc. *

Beneficiary of a trust

Tung Holdings (Trustee) Inc. *

Fortune Crest Inc. *

Gala Way Company Inc. *

Voting

Direct

Direct

64

Number of Shares
interested
(long position)

429,950,088
(Note 1)
429,950,088
(Note 2)
429,950,088
(Note 3)
429,975,319
(Note 4)
429,950,088
(Note 5)
429,950,088
(Note 6)
429,950,088
(Note 7)
429,950,088
(Note 8)
429,950,088
(Note 9)
429,950,088
(Note 10)
429,950,088
(Note 11)
429,950,088
(Note 12)
350,722,656
(Note 13)
79,227,432
(Note 14)

percentage

68.705%

68.705%

68.705%

68.709%

68.705%

68.705%

68.705%

68.705%

68.705%

68.705%

68.705%

68.705%

56.044%

12.660%

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Report of the Directors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:

1. 

Artson, a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, holds 56.36% of the shares of Thelma and, accordingly, has an indirect interest in 

the same Shares in which Thelma has an interest.

2. 

Hanberry Global Limited (“Hanberry”), a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Hwa (brother of Mr. Tung Chee Chen, brother-in-law 

of  Professor  Roger  King,  and  father  of  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew  and  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan),  holds  43.64%  of  the  shares  of  Thelma  and, 

accordingly, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Thelma has an interest.

3. 

Thelma, a company which is owned collectively by Artson and Hanberry, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Fortune Crest and Gala 

Way, wholly-owned subsidiaries of Thelma, have an interest.

4.  Mr. Tung Chee Hwa has an interest in a trust which, through Hanberry as trustee, holds shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 

Shares. Mrs. Tung Chiu Hung Ping Betty (spouse of Mr. Tung Chee Hwa, sister-in-law of Mr. Tung Chee Chen and Professor Roger King, and mother 

of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew and Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan) owns 25,231 Shares.

5. 

Archmore Investment Limited (“Archmore”), a company which is wholly owned by Edgemont Holdings Limited (“Edgemont”), has an interest in a 

trust which, through Artson as trustee, holds shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

6. 

Edgemont has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Archmore, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Edgemont, has an interest.

7. 

Javier  Global  Limited  (“Javier”),  a  company  which  is  wholly  owned  by  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen,  has  an  indirect  interest  in  the  same  Shares  in  which 

Edgemont, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Javier, has an interest.

8. 

Bartlock Assets Ltd., a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Hwa, has an interest in a trust which, through Hanberry as trustee, holds 

shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

9. 

Flowell Development Inc., a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, has an interest in a trust which, through Artson as trustee, holds 

shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

10. 

Izone Capital Limited, a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, has an interest in a trust which, through Artson as trustee, holds 

shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

11. 

Jeference Capital Inc., a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, has an interest in a trust which, through Artson as trustee, holds 

shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

12.  THTI is a company wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen.

13.  Fortune Crest has a direct interest in 350,722,656 Shares.

14.  Gala Way has a direct interest in 79,227,432 Shares.

* 

For  those  companies  marked  with  an  asterisk,  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  is  either  a  director  of  these  companies  or  a  director  of  a  company  which  is  a 

corporate director of these companies.

Save as disclosed herein, as at 31st December 2012, the Company has not been notified by any person (other than the Directors 
or the Chief Executive of the Company) who had an interest or short position in the Shares or the underlying Shares which were 
required to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO, or which were recorded 
in the register required to be kept by the Company under Section 336 of the SFO.

65

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Report of the DirectorsCoNNeCteD traNSaCtioNS

During  the  year  ended  31st  December  2012,  the  Group  had  the  following  continuing  connected  transactions  (the  “Continuing 
Connected Transactions”) constituted by the following agreements entered into by OOCL (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. (“OTWL”), the Group’s 
Taiwanese subsidiary and acting as the general agent for the carrier of the Group in Taiwan:

a)  CMt Master agreement

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 29th June 2005, as supplemented by the supplemental agreement dated 10th December 
2007 and 15th December 2010, all entered into between OTWL and Chinese Maritime Transport Ltd. (“CMT”), CMT agreed 
to provide and to procure members of the CMT group to provide various services to the Group including (i) trucking service; 
(ii) leasing of equipment (including chassis and tractors); (iii) maintenance and repair services for generator sets and chassis; 
(iv) freight station depot and container storage facilities; (v) container yard and gate services; (vi) crew manning services; and 
(vii) container inspection services, for successive periods of three years expiring on 31st December 2013 subject to the annual 
caps of not exceeding US$43,000,000, US$45,200,000 and US$47,500,000 for the years 2011, 2012 and 2013 respectively.

During the year 2012, US$33,871,000 was paid by OTWL to the CMT group for the aforesaid services.

b)  aii Master agreement

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 29th June 2005, as supplemented by the supplemental agreement dated 10th December 
2007 and 15th December 2010, all entered into between OTWL and Associated International Inc. (“AII”), AII agreed to provide 
and to procure members of the AII group to provide various services to the Group including (i) provision of office premises; 
and (ii) freight station depot and container storage facilities, for successive periods of three years expiring on 31st December 
2013 subject to the annual caps of not exceeding US$2,700,000 for the years 2011, 2012 and 2013 respectively.

During the year 2012, US$1,658,000 was paid by OTWL to the AII group for the aforesaid services.

Mr. John Peng is the controlling shareholder of CMT and AII, and the brother-in-law of Mr. Tung Chee Chen who is an Executive 
Director, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company; the brother-in-law of Professor Roger King, a Non-
Executive Director of the Company; the uncle of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew and Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan, both are Executive 
Directors of the Company; and the brother-in-law of Mr. Tung Chee Hwa who has a direct interest in a trust which has an indirect 
interest in the substantial shareholders of the Company. Mr. Peng and accordingly CMT and AII are therefore connected persons of 
the Company as defined in the Listing Rules.

Pursuant to Rule 14A.37 of the Listing Rules, the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company, namely Mr. Simon Murray, 
Mr. Chang Tsann Rong Ernest, Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard and Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward, have reviewed the Continuing 
Connected  Transactions  and  confirmed  that  the  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  have  been  entered  into  (a)  in  the  ordinary 
and usual course of business of the Group; (b) on normal commercial terms or on terms no less favourable to the Group than terms 
available to or from independent third parties; and (c) in accordance with the relevant agreements governing them on terms that 
are fair and reasonable and in the interests of the shareholders of the Company as a whole.

The  Company’s  auditor  was  engaged  to  report  on  the  Group’s  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  in  accordance  with  Hong 
Kong  Standard  on  Assurance  Engagements  3000  “Assurance  Engagements  Other  Than  Audits  or  Reviews  of  Historical  Financial 
Information”  and  with  reference  to  Practice  Note  740  “Auditor’s  Letter  on  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  under  the  Hong 
Kong  Listing  Rules”  issued  by  the  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified  Public  Accountants.  The  auditor  has  issued  an  unqualified 
letter containing the findings and conclusions in respect of the Continuing Connected Transactions as disclosed on page 66 above 
in accordance with Rule 14A.38 of the Listing Rules and nothing has come to their attention that causes them to believe that the 
disclosed Continuing Connected Transactions:

(i)  have not been approved by the Board of Directors of the Company;
(ii)  were not entered into, in all material respects, in accordance with the relevant agreements governing the transactions; and
(iii)  have exceeded the maximum aggregate annual caps in respect of each of the disclosed Continuing Connected Transactions.

66

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Report of the DirectorspUrCHaSe, Sale or reDeMptioN of SHareS

During the year ended 31st December 2012, the Company has not redeemed any of its Shares and neither the Company nor any of 
its subsidiaries has purchased or sold any of the Company’s Shares.

pre-eMptiVe ri GHtS

No pre-emptive rights exist under Bermudan law in relation to the issue of new shares by the Company.

reSerVeS

Movements during the year in the reserves of the Group and the Company are set out in note 35 to the consolidated accounts on 
pages 124 and 125 of this annual report.

Corporate GoVerNaNCe

The Board and management of the Company are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and the Company 
considers  that  effective  corporate  governance  makes  an  important  contribution  to  corporate  success  and  to  the  enhancement  of 
shareholder value.

The Company has adopted its own corporate governance code (the “CG Code”), which was updated in March 2012 to reflect the 
new requirements under the revised Corporate Governance Code and Corporate Governance Report (the “Revised SEHK Code”) 
contained in Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules which was effective on 1st April 2012. In addition to applying the principles as set 
out  in  the  Revised  SEHK  Code,  the  CG  Code  also  incorporates  and  conforms  to  local  and  international  best  practices.  The  CG 
Code sets out the corporate governance principles applied by the Company and its subsidiaries and is constantly reviewed to ensure 
transparency, accountability and independence. Further information on the CG Code is set out in the corporate governance report 
(the “Corporate Governance Report”) on pages 43 to 61 of this annual report.

Throughout the year of 2012, the Company has complied with the former Code on Corporate Governance Practices contained in 
Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules during the period from 1st January 2012 to 31st March 2012 and the Revised SEHK Code during 
the period from 1st April 2012 to 31st December 2012, except as set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 43.

pUBliC float

Based on information that is publicly available to the Company and within the knowledge of the Directors of the Company, as at the 
date of this report, there is sufficient public float of more than 25% of the Company’s issued Shares as required under the Listing Rules.

propertY, plaNt aND eqUipMeNt

Particulars of the movements in property, plant and equipment are set out in note 16 to the consolidated accounts on pages 106 and 
107 of this annual report.

DoNatioNS

Donations made by the Group during the year amount to US$117,000.

aNNUal GeNeral MeetiNG

The Annual General Meeting will be held on 26th April 2013.

A circular containing, inter alia, (i) a notice convening the Annual General Meeting; (ii) details of the retiring Directors to be re-
elected at the Annual General Meeting; (iii) the general mandate to authorise the allotment of and otherwise dealing with shares of 
all classes in the capital of the Company and securities convertible into shares and options, warrants or similar rights to subscribe for 
shares or such convertible securities and (iv) the general mandate to authorise the repurchase of the Company’s securities together 
with a proxy form will be distributed to the shareholders of the Company on around 20th March 2013.

67

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Report of the DirectorsCoMpaNY SeCretarY

The Company Secretary of the Company is Ms. Lee Chee Fun Lammy, Barrister.

aUDitor

The Group’s financial accounts have been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers who will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, 
being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.

On behalf of the Board
orient overseas (international) limited
tung Chee Chen
Chairman

Hong Kong, 6th March 2013

68

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Report of the DirectorsSummary of significant accounting policies 
Financial risk management 

Content 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
Balance Sheet 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts
1.  General information 
2. 
3. 
4.  Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
5.  Revenue and segment information 
6.  Operating costs 
7.  Other operating income 
8.  Other operating expenses 
9.  Employee benefit expense 
10.  Directors’ and management’s emoluments 
11.  Operating profit 
12.  Finance costs 
13.  Taxation 
14.  Earnings per ordinary share 
15.  Dividends 
16.  Property, plant and equipment 
17.  Investment property 
18.  Prepayments of lease premiums 
19.  Subsidiaries 
20.  Jointly controlled entities 
21.  Associated companies 
22.  Intangible assets 
23.  Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities) 
24.  Pension and retirement benefits 
25.  Restricted bank balances 
26.  Available-for-sale financial assets 
27.  Held-to-maturity investments 
28.  Other non-current assets 
29.  Inventories 
30.  Debtors and prepayments 
31.  Portfolio investments 
32.  Derivative financial instruments 
33.  Cash and bank balances 
34.  Share capital 
35.  Reserves 
36.  Borrowings 
37.  Creditors and accruals 
38.  Amounts due to jointly controlled entities 
39.  Commitments 
40.  Financial guarantees 
41.  Notes to consolidated cash flow statement 
42.  Approval of accounts 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entities 

page no.
70
71
72
73
75
76
77

78
78
90
95
97
100
100
100
100
101
103
103
104
105
105
106
108
108
108
109
109
110
111
113
116
117
117
118
118
119
121
121
122
123
124
126
127
128
128
130
130
131
132

69

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Index – Financial Informationto the Shareholders of
orient overseas (international) limited
(Incorporated in Bermuda with limited liability)

We have audited the consolidated accounts of Orient Overseas (International) Limited (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (together 
the “Group”) set out on pages 71 to 141, which comprise the consolidated and company balance sheets as at 31st December 2012, and 
the consolidated profit and loss account, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated cash flow statement 
and the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and 
other explanatory information.

DireCtorS’ reSpoNSiBilitY for tHe CoNSoliDateD aCCoUNtS

The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of consolidated accounts that give a true and fair view in accordance 
with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the disclosure 
requirements of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable 
the preparation of consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

aUDitor’S reSpoNSiBilitY

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated accounts based on our audit and to report our opinion solely to 
you, as a body, in accordance with Section 90 of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda and for no other purpose.  We do not assume 
responsibility towards or accept liability to any other person for the contents of this report.

We conducted our audit in accordance with Hong Kong Standards on Auditing issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants.  Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether the consolidated accounts are free from material misstatement.

An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated accounts.  
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the 
consolidated  accounts,  whether  due  to  fraud  or  error.    In  making  those  risk  assessments,  the  auditor  considers  internal  control 
relevant to the entity’s preparation of consolidated accounts that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that 
are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal 
control.  An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated accounts.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.

opiNioN

In our opinion, the consolidated accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31st 
December 2012, and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended in accordance with Hong Kong Financial 
Reporting Standards and have been properly prepared in accordance with the disclosure requirements of the Hong Kong Companies 
Ordinance.

pricewaterhouseCoopers
Certified Public Accountants

Hong Kong, 6th March 2013

70

Independent Auditor’s ReportOrient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012US$’000

Revenue
Operating costs

Gross profit
Fair value gain from an investment property
Other operating income
Other operating expenses

operating profit
Finance costs
Share of profits of jointly controlled entities
Share of profits of associated companies

profit before taxation
Taxation

Profit for the year from continuing operations
Discontinued operation:
  Write back of provision

Profit for the year

profit attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company
Non-controlling interests

earnings per ordinary share (US cents)
  – from continuing operations
  – from discontinued operation

Basic and diluted

Dividends

Note

2012

2011

5
6

17
7
8

11
12
20
21

13

14

15

6,459,059
(5,806,718)

6,011,836
(5,484,258)

652,341
543
117,566
(441,829)

328,621
(32,877)
3,016
12,091

310,851
(13,562)

297,289

–

297,289

296,359
930

297,289

47.3
–

47.3

527,578
5,000
59,443
(417,423)

174,598
(26,179)
1,930
12,108

162,457
(23,103)

139,354

43,000

182,354

181,645
709

182,354

22.1
6.9

29.0

74,130

43,805

71

Consolidated Profit and Loss AccountFor the year ended 31st December 2012Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$’000

profit for the year

other comprehensive income:
Available-for-sale financial assets
  – Change in fair value
  – Assets revaluation reserve realised
Share of other comprehensive income of associated companies
Share of other comprehensive income of jointly controlled entities
Currency translation adjustments

Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year

total comprehensive income for the year

total comprehensive income attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company
Non-controlling interests

total comprehensive income attributable to
  equity holders of the Company arises from:
Continuing operations
Discontinued operation

2012

297,289

2011

182,354

(9,628)
(936)
192
7
1,563

(8,802)

13,828
(668)
3,419
373
2,907

19,859

288,487

202,213

287,562
925

288,487

287,562
–

287,562

201,336
877

202,213

158,336
43,000

201,336

72

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive IncomeFor the year ended 31st December 2012Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$’000

aSSetS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
Investment property
Prepayments of lease premiums
Jointly controlled entities
Associated companies
Intangible assets
Deferred taxation assets
Pension and retirement assets
Derivative financial instruments
Restricted bank balances
Available-for-sale financial assets
Held-to-maturity investments
Other non-current assets

Current assets
Inventories
Debtors and prepayments
Portfolio investments
Derivative financial instruments
Restricted bank balances
Cash and bank balances

total assets

eqUitY
equity holders
Share capital
Reserves

Non-controlling interests

total equity

31st December
2012

Note

Restated
31st December
2011

Restated
1st January
2011

16
17
18
20
21
22
23
24
32
25
26
27
28

29
30
31
32
25
33

34
35

4,664,773
165,000
9,793
7,610
111,917
38,916
1,711
44,427
7,022
18,030
154,463
253,956
22,158

4,205,194
160,000
10,249
6,741
75,670
40,014
1,803
38,452
7,983
11,728
130,566
182,092
23,279

3,860,367
155,000
10,122
6,060
66,222
46,648
1,778
29,692
5,672
4,648
118,275
121,737
92,989

5,499,776

4,893,771

4,519,210

153,785
543,982
205,427
–
460
1,861,650

150,127
470,594
119,180
–
543
2,098,884

96,265
454,997
151,448
155
1,206
3,851,902

2,765,304

2,839,328

4,555,973

8,265,080

7,733,099

9,075,183

62,579
4,446,911

4,509,490
5,778

62,579
4,188,283

4,250,862
6,686

62,579
5,485,867

5,548,446
6,799

4,515,268

4,257,548

5,555,245

73

Consolidated Balance SheetAs at 31st December 2012Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$’000

liaBilitieS
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings
Deferred taxation liabilities
Pension and retirement liabilities
Derivative financial instruments

Current liabilities
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to jointly controlled entities
Borrowings
Current taxation

total liabilities

total equity and liabilities

Net current assets

31st December
2012

Note

Restated
31st December
2011

Restated
1st January
2011

36
23
24
32

37
38
36

2,325,777
63,924
301
7,418

2,233,095
65,817
2,427
10,358

2,416,367
64,200
2,493
10,157

2,397,420

2,311,697

2,493,217

784,500
5,948
555,753
6,191

709,449
4,053
439,111
11,241

758,212
2,804
247,755
17,950

1,352,392

1,163,854

1,026,721

3,749,812

3,475,551

3,519,938

8,265,080

7,733,099

9,075,183

1,412,912

1,675,474

3,529,252

total assets less current liabilities

6,912,688

6,569,245

8,048,462

C C tung
Kenneth G Cambie
Directors

74

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Consolidated Balance SheetAs at 31st December 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$’000

aSSetS
Non-current assets
Subsidiaries

Current assets
Prepayments
Amounts due from subsidiaries
Restricted bank balances
Cash and bank balances

total assets

eqUitY
equity holders
Share capital
Reserves

total equity

liaBilitieS
Non-current liabilities
Derivative financial instruments
Amount due to a subsidiary

Current liabilities
Accruals
Amounts due to subsidiaries

total liabilities

total equity and liabilities

Net current assets

total assets less current liabilities

C C tung
Kenneth G Cambie
Directors

Note

2012

2011

19

19
25
33

34
35

32
19

19

169,487

169,487

51
1,847,433
337
23,126

31
1,900,708
365
41,986

1,870,947

1,943,090

2,040,434

2,112,577

62,579
1,002,186

1,064,765

3,524
733,229

736,753

1,647
237,269

238,916

62,579
511,876

574,455

4,328
719,724

724,052

2,016
812,054

814,070

975,669

1,538,122

2,040,434

2,112,577

1,632,031

1,129,020

1,801,518

1,298,507

75

Balance SheetAs at 31st December 2012Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$’000

Cash flows from operating activities
  Cash generated from operations

Interest paid
Interest element of finance lease rental payments

  Hong Kong profits tax paid
  Overseas tax paid

  Net cash from operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities
  Sale of property, plant and equipment
  Sale of available-for-sale financial assets
  Sale/redemption on maturity of held-to-maturity investments
  Purchase of property, plant and equipment
  Addition of investment property
  Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets
  Purchase of held-to-maturity investments
  Repayment of loan advanced to an investee company
  Acquisition of additional interest in a subsidiary
Increase of investment in an associated company
(Increase)/decrease in portfolio investments
Increase in amounts due to jointly controlled entities
(Increase)/decrease in restricted bank balances and 
  bank deposits maturing more than three months

from the date of placement

Increase in intangible assets

  Decrease/(increase) in other non-current assets

Interest received

  Dividends received from portfolio investments
  Dividends received from available-for-sale financial assets
  Distribution from available-for-sale financial assets
  Dividends received from jointly controlled entities
  Dividends received from associated companies 

Note

41(a)

2012

2011

478,032
(20,029)
(15,039)
(2,684)
(15,430)

424,850

74,354
793
3,000
(727,662)
(4,457)
(51)
(73,597)
–
(550)
(29,820)
(86,247)
1,895 

(81,185)
(9,761)
1,121
39,298
623
7,937
1,101
2,154
5,856

308,322
(13,394)
(16,322)
(1,878)
(30,974)

245,754

141,177
1,560
14,309
(737,696)
–
–
(85,170)
71,100
–
–
43,361
1,249

2,442,630
(6,494)
(1,390)
36,444
794
12,137
–
1,622
6,079

  Net cash (used in)/from investing activities

(875,198)

1,941,712

Cash flows from financing activities
  New loans
  Repayment of loans
  Capital element of finance lease rental payments
  Dividends paid to equity holders of the Company
  Dividends paid to non-controlling interests

  Net cash from/(used in) financing activities

Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments

627,125
(204,422)
(254,533)
(29,198)
(1,019)

281,620
(175,692)
(98,046)
(1,498,920)
(990)

137,953

(1,492,028)

(312,395)
1,909,154
259

695,438
1,213,283
433

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

41(c)

1,597,018

1,909,154

76

Consolidated Cash Flow StatementFor the year ended 31st December 2012Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$’000

Share capital

reserves

Sub-total

equity holders

Non-
controlling 
interests

At 31st December 2010
  As previously reported
  Prior year adjustment (note 2)

  As restated
Total comprehensive income 

for the year

Transactions with owners
  2010 final dividend
  2010 special dividend
  2011 interim dividend
  Dividends paid to non-controlling interests

62,579
–

5,510,153
(24,286)

5,572,732
(24,286)

62,579

5,485,867

5,548,446

6,799
–

6,799

total

5,579,531
(24,286)

5,555,245

–

–
–
–
–

201,336

201,336

877

202,213

(144,071)
(1,311,044)
(43,805)
–

(144,071)
(1,311,044)
(43,805)
–

–
–
–
(990)

(144,071)
(1,311,044)
(43,805)
(990)

At 31st December 2011

62,579

4,188,283

4,250,862

6,686

4,257,548

At 31st December 2011
  As previously reported
  Prior year adjustment (note 2)

  As restated
Total comprehensive income 

for the year

Transactions with owners
  2012 interim dividend
  Dividends paid to non-controlling interests
  Acquisition of additional interest in 

  a subsidiary

62,579
–

4,212,569
(24,286)

4,275,148
(24,286)

62,579

4,188,283

4,250,862

6,686
–

6,686

4,281,834
(24,286)

4,257,548

–

–
–

–

287,562

287,562

925

288,487

(29,198)
–

(29,198)
–

–
(1,019)

(29,198)
(1,019)

264

264

(814)

(550)

at 31st December 2012

62,579

4,446,911

4,509,490

5,778

4,515,268

77

Consolidated Statement of Changes in EquityFor the year ended 31st December 2012Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  General information

Orient Overseas (International) Limited (“the Company”) is a limited liability company incorporated in Bermuda. The address 
of its registered office is 33rd floor, Harbour Centre, No. 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong.

The principal activity of the Company is investment holding and the activities of its principal subsidiaries, associated companies 
and jointly controlled entities are set out on pages 132 to 141 of the accounts.

The Company has its listing on the Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.

2.  Summary of significant accounting policies

The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated accounts are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless otherwise stated.

2.1  Basis of preparation

The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRS”). 
They  have  been  prepared  under  the  historical  cost  convention,  as  modified  by  the  revaluation  of  investment  property, 
available-for-sale financial assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative financial instruments) 
at fair value through profit or loss, which are carried at fair value.

The preparation of accounts in conformity with HKFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires  management  to  exercise  its  judgement  in  the  process  of  applying  the  Group’s  accounting  policies.  The  areas 
involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the 
consolidated accounts, are disclosed in note 4.

the adoption of revised HKfrS

In 2012, the Group adopted the amendments of HKFRS below, which are relevant to its operations.

HKFRS 7 Amendment
HKAS 12 Amendment

Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Transfer of Financial Assets
Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets

In December 2010, the HKICPA amended HKAS 12, ‘Income Taxes’, to introduce an exception to the principle for the 
measurement  of  deferred  tax  assets  or  liabilities  arising  on  an  investment  property  measured  at  fair  value.  HKAS  12 
requires an entity to measure the deferred tax relating to an asset depending on whether the entity expects to recover the 
carrying amount of the asset through use or sale. The amendment introduces a rebuttable presumption that an investment 
property measured at fair value is recovered entirely by sale. The amendment is applicable retrospectively to annual periods 
beginning on or after 1st January 2012 with early adoption permitted.

The Group has adopted this amendment retrospectively for the financial year ended 31st December 2012 and the effects 
of adoption are disclosed as follows.

78

Notes to the Consolidated AccountsOrient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 20122.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

the adoption of revised HKfrS (Continued)

As disclosed in Note 17, the Group has an investment property measured at its fair value of US$160.0 million as of 1st 
January  2012.  As  required  by  the  amendment,  the  Group  has  re-measured  the  deferred  tax  relating  to  the  investment 
property according to the tax consequence on the presumption that they are recovered entirely by sale retrospectively. There 
is no material impact on the consolidated profit and loss account. The comparative figures for 2011 have been restated 
to reflect the change in accounting policy. The effect of the restatement on the 31st December 2011 consolidated balance 
sheet, and the consequential effect on the 31st December 2012 consolidated balance sheet are as follows:

effect on consolidated balance sheet
US$’000

Increase in deferred tax liabilities
Decrease in retained profit

31st December 
2012

31st December 
2011

1st January 
2011

24,286
24,286

24,286
24,286

24,286
24,286

The Group has assessed the impact of the adoption of HKFRS 7 Amendment “Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Transfer 
of Financial Assets” and considered that there were no significant impact on the Group’s results and financial position and 
no substantial changes in the Group’s accounting policies and presentation of the accounts.

Standards and amendments to existing standards that are relevant but not yet effective to the Group

New standards and amendments

HKAS 1 Amendment
HKAS 19 Amendment
HKAS 27 (2011)
HKAS 28 (2011)
HKFRS 7 Amendment

HKFRS 10
HKFRS 10 Amendment
HKFRS 11
HKFRS 11 Amendment
HKFRS 12
HKFRS 12 Amendment

HKFRS 13
HKFRS 32 Amendment

HKFRS 7 Amendment

HKFRS 9

Presentation of Financial Statements
Employee Benefits
Separate Financial Statements
Associates and Joint Ventures
Financial Instruments:
  Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and 
  Financial Liabilities
Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements – Transition Guidance
Joint Arrangements
Joint Arrangements – Transition Guidance
Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 
  – Transition Guidance
Fair Value Measurements
Financial Instruments: Presentation – Offsetting 
  Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Mandatory Effective 
  date of HKFRS 9 and Transitional Disclosures
Financial Instruments

* 

Effective for annual periods beginning 1st January 2015 for those in connection with HKFRS 9.

effective for 
accounting periods 
beginning on or after

1st July 2012
1st January 2013
1st January 2013
1st January 2013
1st January 2013

1st January 2013
1st January 2013
1st January 2013
1st January 2013
1st January 2013
1st January 2013

1st January 2013
1st January 2014

1st January 2015*

1st January 2015

79

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

Standards  and  amendments  to  existing  standards  that  are  relevant  but  not  yet  effective  to  the  Group 
(Continued)

annual improvements to HKfrS published in June 2012

HKAS 1 Amendment
HKAS 16 Amendment
HKAS 32 Amendment
HKAS 34 Amendment

Presentation of Financial Statements
Property, Plant and Equipment
Financial Instruments: Presentation
Interim Financing Reporting

effective for 
annual periods 
beginning on or after

1st January 2013
1st January 2013
1st January 2013
1st January 2013

The Group has not early adopted the above standards, amendments and improvements. None of these is expected to have 
a significant effect on the consolidated accounts of the Group, except the following:

HKAS 19, “Employee Benefits”, was amended in June 2011. The impact on the Group will be to immediately recognise 
all  past  service  costs  and  to  replace  interest  cost  and  expected  return  on  plan  assets  with  a  net  interest  amount  that  is 
calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit assets/liabilities. The Group has yet to assess the full 
impact of the amendments.

2.2  Consolidation

The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 31st December.

The consolidated accounts also include the Group’s attributable share of post-acquisition results and reserves of its jointly 
controlled entities and associated companies.

(a)  Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries are all entities (including special purpose entities) over which the Group has the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights. 
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when 
assessing whether the Group controls another entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control 
is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.

The  Group  uses  the  acquisition  method  of  accounting  to  account  for  business  combinations.  The  consideration 
transferred  for  the  acquisition  of  a  subsidiary  is  the  fair  values  of  the  assets  transferred,  the  liabilities  incurred 
and the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or 
liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. 
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured 
initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the Group recognises any 
non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of 
the acquiree’s net assets.

The  excess  of  the  consideration  transferred,  the  amount  of  any  non-controlling  interest  in  the  acquiree  and  the 
acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net 
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired 
in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated. 
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.

In the Company’s balance sheet, the investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment losses. 
The results of subsidiaries are recognised by the Company on the basis of dividend received and receivable.

80

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.2  Consolidation (Continued)

(b)  transactions with non-controlling interests

The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group. For 
purchases  from  non-controlling  interests,  the  difference  between  any  consideration  paid  and  the  relevant  share 
acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to 
non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.

When the Group ceases to have control or significant influence, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to 
its fair value, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss. The fair value is the initial carrying 
amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial 
asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are 
accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts 
previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.

(c)  Jointly controlled entities

A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture in respect of which a contractual arrangement is established between the 
participating venturers and whereby the Group together with the venturers undertake an economic activity which is 
subject to joint control and none of the venturers has unilateral control over the economic activity. Jointly controlled 
entities are accounted for under the equity method whereby the Group’s share of profits less losses is included in the 
consolidated profit and loss account and the Group’s share of net assets is included in the consolidated balance sheet.

(d)  associated companies

Associated  companies  are  all  entities  over  which  the  Group  has  significant  influence  but  not  control,  generally 
accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associated companies 
are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investment in 
associated companies includes goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) identified on acquisition.

If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant influence is retained, only a proportionate share of 
the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.

The Group’s share of its associated companies’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the consolidated profit 
and loss account, and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves. The cumulative 
post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment. When the Group’s share of 
losses in an associated company equals or exceeds its interest in the associated company, including any other unsecured 
receivables,  the  Group  does  not  recognise  further  losses,  unless  it  has  incurred  obligations  or  made  payments  on 
behalf of the associated company.

Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associated companies are eliminated to the extent of the 
Group’s interest in the associated companies. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides 
evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of associated companies have been changed 
where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.

2.3  property, plant and equipment

All  property,  plant  and  equipment  are  stated  at  historical  cost  less  depreciation  and  impairment  losses.  Historical  cost 
includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s 
carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and 
maintenance are charged to the consolidated profit and loss account during the financial period in which they are incurred.

81

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.3  property, plant and equipment (Continued)

No depreciation is provided for assets under construction and freehold land.

Vehicles, computer and other equipment include terminal equipment and improvements.

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their 
residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows:

Container vessels
Containers
Chassis
Terminal equipment and improvements
Freehold buildings
Leasehold buildings
Leasehold improvement
Furnitures, vehicles, computer and other equipment

25 years
5 to 12 years
10 to 12 years
10 to 15 years
Not exceeding 75 years
Over period of the lease
Over period of the lease
3 to 15 years

The residual values of the assets and their useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.

The carrying amount of an asset is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount of the asset 
is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.

Gains and losses on disposals are determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amounts 
of the assets and are dealt with in the consolidated profit and loss account.

2.4  investment property

Property  that  is  held  for  long-term  rental  yields  or  for  capital  appreciation  or  both,  and  that  is  not  occupied  by  the 
companies in the Group, is classified as investment property. Investment property comprises freehold land, land held under 
operating leases and buildings held under finance leases. Land held under operating leases are classified and accounted 
for as investment property when the rest of the definition of investment property is met. The operating lease is accounted 
for as if it were a finance lease.

Investment  property  is  initially  measured  at  cost,  including  related  transaction  costs  and  where  applicable  borrowing 
costs. After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair value. Fair value is based on valuation carried out 
semi-annually  by  an  independent  external  valuer.  Changes  in  fair  values  are  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and 
loss account.

2.5  Vessel repairs and surveys

Upon acquisition of a vessel, the components of the vessel which are required to be replaced at the next dry-docking are 
identified and their costs are depreciated over the period to the next estimated dry-docking date, usually ranging from 
three to five years. Costs incurred on subsequent dry-docking of vessels are capitalised and depreciated over the period to 
the next estimated dry-docking date. When significant dry-docking costs incurred prior to the expiry of the depreciation 
period, the remaining costs of the previous dry-docking are written off immediately.

82

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.6  intangible assets

(a)  Goodwill

Goodwill  represents  the  excess  of  the  cost  of  an  acquisition  over  the  fair  value  of  the  Group’s  share  of  the  net 
identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary, associated company or jointly controlled entity at the effective date of 
acquisition.

Goodwill on acquisition of a foreign operation is treated as an asset of the foreign operation.

Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiaries is retained at the carrying amount as an intangible asset. Goodwill 
arising  on  acquisition  of  associated  companies  and  jointly  controlled  entities  is  included  within  investments  in 
associated companies and jointly controlled entities respectively and is tested for impairment as part of overall balance. 
Separately  recognised  goodwill  is  subject  to  impairment  review  annually  and  when  there  are  indications  that  the 
carrying value may not be recoverable. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Group’s share of the 
net identifiable assets of the acquired company, the difference is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

The  profit  or  loss  on  disposal  of  subsidiaries,  associated  companies  or  jointly  controlled  entities  is  calculated  by 
reference to the net assets at the date of disposal including the attributable amount of goodwill but does not include 
any attributable goodwill previously eliminated against reserves.

(b)  Computer software

Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred. Costs 
that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, 
and that will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets. 
Direct costs include the software development employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.

Computer  software  development  costs  recognised  as  assets  are  stated  at  cost  less  accumulated  amortisation. 
Amortisation is calculated on the straight-line basis over their estimated useful life of five years.

2.7  impairment of investments in subsidiaries and non-financial assets

Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation, and are at least tested annually for impairment. 
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying 
amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value of an asset less 
costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which 
there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash generating units). Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered 
an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.

Impairment  testing  of  the  investments  in  subsidiaries  is  required  upon  receiving  dividends  from  these  investments  if 
the dividend exceeds the total comprehensive income of the subsidiary in the period the dividend is declared or if the 
carrying amount of the investment in the separate account exceeds the carrying amount in the consolidated accounts of 
the investee’s net assets including goodwill.

2.8  investments

The  Group  classifies  its  investments  into  the  following  categories:  portfolio  investments,  loans  and  receivables,  held-
to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which the 
investments  were  acquired.  Management  determines  the  classification  of  its  investments  at  initial  recognition  and  re-
evaluates this designation at every reporting date.

83

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.8  investments (Continued)

(a)  portfolio investments

Portfolio investments include financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through profit or 
loss at inception. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the 
short term or if so designated by management. Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are either 
held for trading or are expected to be realised within 12 months from the balance sheet date.

(b)  loans and receivables

Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted 
in an active market. They arise when the Group provides money or services directly to a debtor with no intention 
of trading the receivable. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the 
balance sheet date; which are classified as non-current assets.

(c)  Held-to-maturity investments

Held-to-maturity  investments  are  non-derivative  financial  assets  with  fixed  or  determinable  payments  and  fixed 
maturities that the Group’s management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. If the Group were 
to sell other than an insignificant amount of held-to-maturity investments, the whole category would be reclassified 
as available-for-sale financial assets. Held-to-maturity investments are included in non-current assets, except for those 
with maturities less than 12 months from the balance sheet date; which are classified as current assets.

(d)  available-for-sale financial assets

Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in 
any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the 
investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.

Interest on available-for-sale financial assets calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the profit 
and loss account as part of other income. Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised in the 
profit and loss account as part of other income when the Group’s right to receive payments is established.

(e)  recognition and measurement

Regular way purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date – the date on which the Group commits 
to purchase or sell the asset. Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial 
assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss. Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash 
flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks 
and rewards of ownership. Available-for-sale financial assets and portfolio investments are subsequently carried at 
fair value. Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method less impairment losses, if any.

Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the portfolio investments are included 
in the consolidated profit and loss account in the period in which they arise. Unrealised gains and losses arising from 
changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in 
other comprehensive income. When securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets are sold or impaired, 
the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the consolidated profit and loss account as gains and losses 
from available-for-sale financial assets.

The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices. If the market for a financial asset is not active 
(and for unlisted securities), the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques. These include the use of 
recent arm’s length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow 
analysis, and option pricing models refined to reflect the issuer’s specific circumstances.

84

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.8  investments (Continued)

(e)  recognition and measurement (Continued)

The Group may choose to reclassify a non-derivative trading financial asset out of the portfolio investments category 
if the financial asset is no longer held for the purpose of selling it in the near term. Financial assets other than loans 
and receivables are permitted to be reclassified out of the held for trading category only in rare circumstances arising 
from a single event that is unusual and highly unlikely to recur in the near term. In addition, the Group may choose 
to reclassify financial assets that would meet the definition of loans and receivables or held-to-maturity investments 
out of the portfolio investments or available-for-sale financial assets categories if the Group has the intention and 
ability to hold these financial assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity at the date of reclassification.

Reclassifications are made at fair value as of the reclassification date. Fair value becomes the new cost or amortised 
cost as applicable, and no reversals of fair value gains or losses recorded before reclassification date are subsequently 
made. Effective interest rates for financial assets reclassified to loans and receivables and held-to-maturity categories 
are determined at the reclassification date. Further increases in estimates of cash flows adjust effective interest rates 
prospectively.

The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of 
financial assets is impaired. In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets, a significant 
or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the securities 
are impaired. If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the 
difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset 
previously  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  is  removed  from  equity  and  recognised  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account. Impairment losses recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account on 
equity instruments are not reversed through the consolidated profit and loss account.

Impairment on held-to-maturity investments is considered at both an individual and collective level. The individual 
impairment allowance is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of 
estimated future cash flows, discounted at asset’s original effective interest rate, where the effect of discounting is 
material.

For loans and receivables category, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount  and  the  present  value  of  estimated  future  cash  flows  (excluding  future  credit  losses  that  have  not  been 
incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced 
and the amount of the loss is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account. If a loan or held-to-maturity 
investment has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective 
interest rate determined under the contract. As a practical expedient, the Group may measure impairment on the 
basis of an instrument’s fair value using an observable market price.

2.9  inventories

Inventories mainly comprise bunkers and consumable stores. Cost is calculated on weighted average basis. Inventories are 
stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course 
of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses.

2.10  Debtors

Debtors  are  recognised  initially  at  fair  value  and  subsequently  measured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective  interest 
method,  less  provision  for  impairment.  A  provision  for  impairment  of  debtors  is  established  when  there  is  objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. The 
amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future 
cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The amount of the provision is recognised in the consolidated profit 
and loss account.

If collection of debtors is expected in one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they are 
classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets.

85

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.11 Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks with original maturities of three months 
or less and net of bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the consolidated 
balance sheet.

2.12 Share capital

Ordinary shares are classified as equity.

Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the 
proceeds.

2.13 Creditors

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from 
suppliers. Creditors are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating 
cycle of the business if longer. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.

Trade  creditors  are  recognised  initially  at  fair  value  and  subsequently  measured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective 
interest method.

2.14 Borrowings

Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at 
amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in 
the consolidated profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.

Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability 
for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.

Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable 
that some or all of the facility will be drawn down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs. To the 
extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a 
pre-payment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.

2.15 Current and deferred taxation

The  tax  expense  for  the  year  comprises  current  and  deferred  tax.  Tax  is  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss 
account, except to the extent that it relates to item recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this 
case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.

The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date in the countries where the Company’s subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associated companies operate 
and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations 
in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.

Deferred taxation is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases 
of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated accounts. However, if the deferred taxation arises 
from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the 
transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred taxation is determined 
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when 
the related deferred taxation asset is realised or the deferred taxation liability is settled.

86

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.15 Current and deferred taxation (Continued)

Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be utilised.

Deferred taxation is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associated companies and 
jointly controlled entities, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities related to income taxes levied by the 
same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the 
balances on a net basis.

2.16 employee benefits

(a)  pension obligations

The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension and retirement benefit schemes in 
the main countries in which the Group operates. These schemes are generally funded by payments from employees 
and by relevant group companies, taking into account of the recommendations of independent qualified actuaries 
where required.

A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan. Typically defined benefit plans define 
an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors 
such as age, years of service and compensation.

For defined benefit pension plans, annual contributions are made in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries 
for the funding of retirement benefits in order to build up reserves for each scheme member during the employee’s 
service life and are used to pay to the employee or his or her dependent(s) a pension after retirement. Such pension 
costs are assessed using the projected unit credit method, under which, the cost of providing pensions is charged to the 
consolidated profit and loss account so as to spread the regular cost over the service lives of employees in accordance 
with the advice of the actuaries with full valuation of the plans every two to three years. The pension obligations are 
measured  as  the  present  value  of  the  estimated  future  cash  outflows  using  interest  rates  of  high  quality  corporate 
bonds which have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related liabilities. Plan assets are measured at 
fair values. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account over the expected 
average remaining service lives of employees to the extent of the amount in excess of 10% of the greater of the present 
value of the plan obligations and the fair value of plan assets.

Contributions under the defined contribution schemes are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are 
due and are reduced by contributions forfeited by those employees who leave the scheme prior to vesting fully in the 
contributions. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the 
future payments is available.

(b)  Bonus plans

The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses, based on a formula that takes into consideration the 
profit attributable to the Company’s shareholders after certain adjustments. The Group recognises a provision where 
contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.

(c)  employee leave entitlements

Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised when they accrue to employees. A provision is made for the 
estimated liability for annual leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the balance sheet date. Employee 
entitlements to sick leave and maternity leave are not recognised until the time of leave.

87

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.17 provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated.

Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined 
by considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect 
to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.

2.18 insurance contracts

The Group regards its financial guarantees provided to its subsidiaries as insurance contracts. The Group assesses at each 
balance sheet date the liabilities under its insurance contracts using current estimates of future cash flows. Changes in 
carrying amount of these insurance liabilities are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

2.19 Segment information

Operating  segments  are  reported  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the  internal  reporting  provided  to  the  chief  operating 
decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance 
of the operating segments and making strategic decisions, has been identified as the Board of Directors.

2.20 foreign currency translation

(a)  functional and presentation currency

Items included in the accounts of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (the “functional currency”). The consolidated accounts are presented in US 
dollars, which is the Company’s functional currency and the Group’s presentation currency.

(b)  transactions and balances

Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and 
from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported 
as part of the fair value gain or loss. Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities classified as 
available-for-sale financial assets, are included in the assets revaluation reserve in other comprehensive income.

(c)  Group companies

The results and financial position of all the group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary 
economy) that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation 
currency as follows:

(i)  assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance 

sheet;

(ii) 

income and expenses for each profit and loss account are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average 
is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in 
which case income and expenses are translated at the rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions); and

(iii)  all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.

88

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.20 foreign currency translation (Continued)

(c)  Group companies (Continued)

On  consolidation,  exchange  differences  arising  from  the  translation  of  the  net  investment  in  foreign  entities, 
and  of  borrowings  and  other  currency  instruments  designated  as  hedges  of  such  investments,  are  taken  to  other 
comprehensive income. When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the consolidated 
profit and loss account as part of the gain or loss on sale.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities 
of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.

2.21 revenue recognition

Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of services, net of value-added 
tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. The Group recognises revenue when the amount 
of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity and when specific 
criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities as described below. Revenue is recognised as follows:

(a)  Freight revenues from the operation of the container transport are recognised on a percentage of completion basis, 

which is determined on the time proportion method of each individual vessel voyage.

(b)  Revenues from logistics business are recognised when services are rendered or on an accrual basis.

(c)  Revenues from the operation of container terminals and provision of other services are recognised when services are 

rendered or on an accrual basis.

(d)  Rental income under operating leases is recognised over the periods of the respective leases on a straight-line basis.

(e) 

Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.

(f)  Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.

2.22 leases

(a)  operating lease

Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as 
operating leases. Payments made under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the lessor, are charged 
to the consolidated profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.

The up-front prepayments made for the leasehold land and land use rights are expensed in the consolidated profit 
and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease or where there is impairment, the impairment 
is expensed in the consolidated profit and loss account.

(b)  finance lease

Leases of assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance 
leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased assets 
and  the  present  value  of  the  minimum  lease  payments.  Each  lease  payment  is  allocated  between  the  liability  and 
finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the balance outstanding. The corresponding rental obligations, 
net of finance charges, are included in current and non-current borrowings. The interest element of the finance cost 
is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic 
rate of interest on the remaining balances of the liability for each period.

89

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.23 Borrowing costs

Borrowing costs are expensed in the consolidated profit and loss account in the period in which they are incurred, except 
to  the  extent  that  they  are  capitalised  as  being  directly  attributable  to  the  acquisition,  construction  or  production  of  a 
qualifying asset which necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale.

The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when expenditure for the asset 
is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for its intended 
use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the activities 
necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or complete.

2.24 Derivative financial instruments

Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently remeasured at their fair value. Changes in fair value are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

2.25 Dividend distribution

Dividend distribution to the Company’s equity holders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s and the Company’s accounts 
in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s Directors/equity holders.

3.  financial risk management

3.1  financial risk factors

The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: foreign exchange risk, price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk 
and cash flow and fair value interest-rate risk. The Group’s overall risk management policy focuses on the unpredictability 
of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance.

The  Group  has  regularly  monitored  current  and  expected  liquidity  requirements  against  the  cash  on  hand,  expected 
net  operating  cash  flow,  committed  facilities  and  its  compliance  with  loan  covenants,  to  ensure  the  Group’s  liquidity 
requirements can be met in the short and longer term.

The Group has paid ongoing attention on credit quality of counterparties, in particular major customers and financial 
institutions with relationship in terms of debt securities, derivatives and cash transactions. Credit qualities of respective 
counterparties are disclosed in respective notes to the consolidated accounts.

(a)  foreign exchange risk

The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, 
primarily with respect to fluctuation in the exchange rates of foreign currencies to the US dollar. Foreign currency 
exposures are covered by forward contracts and options whenever appropriate.

Income and expenses from container transport and logistics activities are mainly denominated in US dollar and in 
various currencies, mainly including Euro, Canadian dollar, Japanese yen and Renminbi.

To limit currency exposure, the US dollar based activities are financed primarily by loans in US dollar. With all other 
variables held constant, an average change in the US dollar exchange rate of 1%, compared with all other non-US 
dollar  related  currencies,  has  a  positive/negative  effect  on  the  results  for  2012  of  approximately  US$13.1  million 
(2011: US$15.8 million).

90

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.1  financial risk factors (Continued)

(b)  price risk

The container transport and logistics activities are sensitive to economic fluctuations. The Group is exposed to freight 
rate risk. The Group’s revenue will increase/decrease by US$56.3 million (2011: US$52.4 million) for 1% increase/
reduction of the average container freight rates with all other variables held constant.

The Group is exposed to bunker price risk for its container transport and logistics activities. Bunker cost is one of 
the major cost components of container transport and logistics activities. An increase in bunker price can only be 
partially compensated through freight surcharge bunker price adjustment. With all other variables held constant, the 
operating cost will be increased by approximately US$1.8 million (2011: US$1.9 million) for one US dollar increase 
in bunker price per ton.

The  Group  is  also  exposed  to  equity/debt  securities  price  risk  because  of  investments  held  by  the  Group  include 
available-for-sale financial assets or portfolio investments which are accounted at fair value through profit or loss. 
To  manage  its  price  risk  arising  from  investments  in  equity/debt  securities,  the  Group  diversifies  its  portfolio.  If 
the prices of the respective quoted equity/debt securities of the Group had been increased/decreased by 1% and all 
other variables held constant, the profit after taxation and the other comprehensive income of the Group for the year 
ended 31st December 2012 would increase/decrease by US$2.0 million (2011: US$1.1 million) and US$0.4 million 
(2011: US$0.1 million) respectively as a result of the changes in fair value of equity/debt securities under portfolio 
investments and equity securities classified as available-for-sale.

(c)  Credit risk

The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. It has policies in place to ensure that services are provided 
to customers with an appropriate credit history.

The extent of the Group’s credit exposure is represented by the aggregate balance of cash and bank balances, portfolio 
investments, held-to-maturity investments, derivative financial instruments, restricted bank balances, other deposits 
and debtors and prepayments. The credit quality of these exposures is disclosed in relevant notes to the consolidated 
accounts.

(d)  liquidity risk

Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents, the availability of funding 
through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. The Group 
aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping sufficient cash and cash equivalents and readily realisable liquid 
assets.

Surplus  cash  held  by  the  operating  entities  over  and  above  balance  required  for  working  capital  management  are 
transferred to the Group Treasury. Group Treasury invests surplus cash in interest bearing current accounts, time 
deposits,  money  market  deposits  and  marketable  securities,  choosing  instruments  with  appropriate  maturities  or 
sufficient liquidity to provide sufficient head-room. At the reporting date, the Group held liquid assets of US$2,106.2 
million (2011: US$2,218.8 million) that are expected to readily generate cash inflows for managing liquidity risk.

91

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.1  financial risk factors (Continued)

(d)  liquidity risk (Continued)

The table below analyses the Group’s and the Company’s non-derivative financial liabilities and net-settled derivative 
financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the 
contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances 
due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.

US$’000

Group

at 31st December 2012
Borrowings
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to jointly 
  controlled entities
Derivative financial instruments

At 31st December 2011
Borrowings
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to jointly 
  controlled entities
Derivative financial instruments

Company

at 31st December 2012
Accruals
Amounts due to subsidiaries
Derivative financial instruments

At 31st December 2011
Accruals
Amounts due to subsidiaries
Derivative financial instruments

less than
1 year

Between 1
and 2 years

Between 2
and 5 years

over
5 years

605,847
784,500

213,074
–

945,390
–

1,347,027
–

5,948
4,224

–
736

–
2,781

– 
–

469,736
709,449

4,053
5,200

291,707
–

468,629
–

1,703,998
–

–
917

–
4,608

1,647
237,269
3,524

–
733,229
–

2,016
812,054
4,328

–
719,724
–

–
–
–

–
–
–

–
–

–
–
–

–
–
–

(e)  Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk

The Group’s income and operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates. The 
Group has a policy to place surplus funds with creditable financial institutions which offer the best return for the 
Group on a short-term basis.

There are no material fixed rate receivables or borrowings in the Group.

The  Group  is  exposed  to  cash  flow  interest  rate  risk  through  the  impact  of  rate  changes  on  interest  bearing  bank 
balances and borrowings. These exposures are partially managed through the use of derivative financial instruments 
such as interest rate swaps.

At 31st December 2012, if interest rates had been 0.1% higher/lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax 
profit for the year would have been US$1.1 million lower/higher (2011: US$0.6 million lower/higher), mainly as a 
result of higher/lower net interest expense on the net floating rate borrowings.

92

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.2  Capital risk management

The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order 
to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to 
reduce the cost of capital.

In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to equity holders, 
return capital to equity holders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.

Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as 
net debt divided by total equity. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including “current and non-current borrowings” 
as shown in the consolidated balance sheet) less restricted bank balances, cash and bank balances and portfolio investments.

The gearing ratios at 31st December 2012 and 2011 were as follows:

US$’000

Total borrowings (note 36)
Less:  Restricted bank balances (note 25)
Cash and bank balances (note 33)
Portfolio investments (note 31)

Net debt

Total equity

Gearing ratio

2012

(2,881,530)
18,490
1,861,650
205,427

Restated
2011

(2,672,206) 

12,271
2,098,884
119,180

(795,963)

(441,871)

4,515,268

4,257,548

0.18

0.10

The change in net debt position results primarily from the purchase of property, plant and equipment and held-to-maturity 
investments during the year.

3.3  fair value estimation

The financial instruments that are measured in the balance sheet at fair value, require disclosure of fair value measurements 
by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy:

•	 Quoted	prices	(unadjusted)	in	active	markets	for	identical	assets	or	liabilities	(level	1).
•	

Inputs	other	than	quoted	prices	included	within	level	1	that	are	observable	for	the	asset	or	liability,	either	directly	
(that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2).
Inputs	for	the	asset	or	liability	that	are	not	based	on	observable	market	data	(that	is,	unobservable	inputs)	(level	3).

•	

93

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.3  fair value estimation (Continued)

The following table presents the Group’s assets and liability that are measured at fair value at 31st December 2012.

US$’000

assets
Portfolio investments
  – Equity securities
  – Debt securities
  – Funds and other investments
Derivative financial instruments
Available-for-sale financial assets
  – Listed equity securities
  – Other investments

level 1

level 2

level 3

total

24,875
175,292
–
–

39,129
–

–
141
5,119
7,022

–
–
–
–

–
–

–
115,334

24,875
175,433
5,119
7,022

39,129
115,334

total assets

239,296

12,282

115,334

366,912

liability
Derivative financial instruments

total liabilities

–

–

7,418

7,418

–

–

7,418

7,418

The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31st December 2011.

US$’000

assets
Portfolio investments
  – Equity securities
  – Debt securities
  – Funds and other investments
Derivative financial instruments
Available-for-sale financial assets
  – Listed equity securities
  – Other investments

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

21,264
92,991
–
–

705
–

–
644
4,281
7,983

–
–

–
–
–
–

–
129,861

21,264
93,635
4,281
7,983

705
129,861

total assets

114,960

12,908

129,861

257,729

liability
Derivative financial instruments

total liabilities

–

–

10,358

10,358

–

–

10,358

10,358

The  fair  value  of  financial  instruments  traded  in  active  markets  is  based  on  quoted  market  prices  at  the  balance  sheet 
date. A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, 
industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market 
transactions on an arm’s length basis. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current 
bid price. These instruments are included in level 1. Instruments included in level 1 comprise portfolio investments and 
listed equity securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets.

The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) 
is  determined  by  using  valuation  techniques.  These  valuation  techniques  maximise  the  use  of  observable  market  data 
where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value 
an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2. Instruments in level 2 include the derivative financial 
instruments.

94

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.3  fair value estimation (Continued)

If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.

Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include:

•	 Quoted	market	prices	or	dealer	quotes	for	similar	instruments.

•	

•	

The	 fair	 value	 of	 interest	 rate	 swaps	 is	 calculated	 as	 the	 present	 value	 of	 the	 estimated	 future	 cash	 flows	 based	 on	
observable yield curves.

The	fair	value	of	forward	foreign	exchange	contracts	is	determined	using	forward	exchange	rates	at	the	balance	sheet 	
date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value.

•	 Other	techniques,	such	as	discounted	cash	flow	analysis,	are	used	to	determine	fair	value	for	the	remaining	financial 	

instruments.

Instruments included in level 3 mainly comprise unlisted equity securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets.

The following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments.

US$’000

Opening balance
Additions
Disposals
Fair value change recognised in other comprehensive income

Closing balance

2012

129,861
51
(701)
(13,877)

115,334

2011

116,319
–
(480)
14,022

129,861

4.  Critical accounting estimates and judgements

Estimates and judgements used in preparing the accounts are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and 
other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.

The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 
financial year are discussed below.

(a)  income taxes

The  Group  is  subject  to  income  taxes  in  numerous  jurisdictions.  Significant  judgement  is  required  in  determining 
the  worldwide  provision  for  income  taxes.  There  are  many  transactions  and  calculations  for  which  the  ultimate  tax 
determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different 
from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in 
the period in which such determination is made.

95

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Critical accounting estimates and judgements (Continued)

(a)  income taxes (Continued)

Recognition  of  deferred  tax  assets,  which  principally  relate  to  tax  losses,  depends  on  the  management’s  expectation  of 
future taxable profit that will be available against which tax losses can be utilised. The outcome of their actual utilisation 
may be different.

(b)  investment property

The fair value of investment property is determined by an independent valuer on an open market for existing use basis. In 
making the judgement, consideration has been given to assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing 
at the balance sheet date and appropriate capitalisation rates. Management has critically assessed these estimates and has 
regularly compared to actual market data and actual transactions entered into by the Group.

(c)  property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Management determines the estimated useful lives and residual values for the Group’s property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets. Management will revise the depreciation charge where useful lives and residual values are different from 
previously estimated.

Management  determines  the  estimated  useful  lives  and  related  depreciation  expenses  for  the  vessels  and  containers. 
Management estimates useful lives of its vessels and containers by reference to expected usage of the vessels and containers, 
expected repair and maintenance, and technical or commercial obsolescence arising from changes or improvements in the 
market. It could change significantly as a result of the changes of these factors.

Were the useful lives of vessels and containers to differ by 10% from management estimates with all other variables held 
constant, it is estimated that depreciation expense would increase or decrease by approximately US$21.9 million or US$18.0 
million respectively (2011: US$19.9 million or US$16.3 million respectively).

The  Group’s  management  determines  the  residual  values  for  its  vessels  and  containers.  This  estimate  is  based  on  the 
current scrap values of steels in an active market at each measurement date since management decides to dispose of the 
fully depreciated vessels and containers as scrap steels. Depreciation expense would increase where the residual values are 
less than previously estimated values.

Were the residual values of containers and vessels to differ by 10% from management estimates with all other variables 
held constant, it is estimated that depreciation expense would increase or decrease by approximately US$9.9 million or 
US$8.9 million respectively (2011: US$8.7 million or US$8.4 million respectively).

(d)  provision of operating cost

Operating  costs,  which  mainly  comprise  cargo,  vessel  and  voyage  costs,  equipment  repositioning  cost  and  terminal 
operating  cost.  Invoices  in  relation  to  these  expenses  are  received  approximately  up  to  four  months  after  the  expenses 
have been incurred. Consequently, recognition of operating costs is based on the rendering of services as well as the latest 
tariff agreed with vendors.

If the actual expenses of a voyage differ from the estimated expenses, this will have an impact on operating cost in future 
periods. Historically, the Group has not experienced significant deviation from the actual expenses.

(e)  Held-to-maturity investments

The Group follows HKAS 39 guidance on classifying non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments 
and  fixed  maturity  as  held-to-maturity  investments.  This  classification  requires  significant  judgement.  In  making  this 
judgement, the Group evaluates its intention and ability to hold such investments to maturity.

96

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts5.  revenue and segment information

(a)  revenue

US$’000

Container transport and logistics
Others

2012

6,432,955
26,104

2011

5,986,719
25,117

6,459,059

6,011,836

The principal activities of the Group are container transport and logistics.

Revenue comprises turnover which includes gross freight, charter hire, service and other income from the operation of 
the container transport and logistics and rental income from the investment property.

(b)  Segment information

The principal activities of the Group are container transport and logistics. Container transport and logistics include global 
containerised shipping services in major trade lanes, covering Trans-Pacific, Trans-Atlantic, Asia/Europe, Asia/Australia 
and Intra-Asia trades, and integrated services over the management and control of effective storage and flow of goods. 
In  accordance  with  the  Group’s  internal  financial  reporting  provided  to  the  chief  operating  decision-makers,  who  are 
responsible for allocating resources, assessing performance of the operating segments and making strategic decisions, the 
reportable operating segments are container transport and logistics and others.

operating segments

The segment results for the year ended 31st December 2012 are as follows:

Continuing operations

others

elimination

Group

US$’000

revenue

Operating profit
Finance costs (note 12)
Share of profits of jointly controlled entities (note 20)
Share of profits of associated companies (note 21)

profit before taxation
Taxation

profit for the year

Capital expenditure
Depreciation
Amortisation

Container 
transport 
and logistics

6,432,955

229,546
(32,877)
3,016
12,091

211,776
(14,594)

26,887

99,075
–
–
–

99,075
1,032

197,182

100,107

780,105
235,346
11,338

4,457
–
–

(783)

6,459,059

–
–
–
–

–
–

–

–
–
–

328,621
(32,877) 
3,016
12,091

310,851
(13,562)

297,289

784,562
235,346
11,338

97

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  revenue and segment information (Continued)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

operating segments (Continued)

The segment results for the year ended 31st December 2011 are as follows:

Continuing operations

Discontinued 
operation

Container 
transport 
and logistics

5,986,719

117,794
(26,179)

1,930

12,108

105,653
(19,642)

86,011
–

86,011

744,603
242,534
13,415

Others Elimination

Sub-total

Others

Group

26,041

56,804
–

–

–

56,804
(3,461)

53,343
–

53,343

–
–
–

(924)

6,011,836

–
–

–

–

–
–

–
–

–

–
–
–

174,598
(26,179)

1,930

12,108

162,457
(23,103)

139,354
–

139,354

744,603
242,534
13,415

–

–
–

–

–

–
–

–
43,000

6,011,836

174,598
(26,179)

1,930

12,108

162,457
(23,103)

139,354
43,000

43,000

182,354

–
–
–

744,603
242,534
13,415

US$’000

revenue

Operating profit
Finance costs (note 12)
Share of profits of jointly 
  controlled entities (note 20)
Share of profits of associated 
  companies (note 21)

profit before taxation
Taxation

profit after taxation
Write back of provision

profit for the year

Capital expenditure
Depreciation
Amortisation

The segment assets and liabilities at 31st December 2012 are as follows:

US$’000

Segment assets
Jointly controlled entities
Associated companies

Total assets

Segment liabilities

Container 
transport and 
logistics

5,926,160
7,610
111,917

others

2,219,393
–
–

Group

8,145,553
7,610
111,917

6,045,687

2,219,393

8,265,080

(3,687,770)

(62,042)

(3,749,812)

98

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  revenue and segment information (Continued)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

operating segments (Continued)

The segment assets and liabilities at 31st December 2011 are as follows:

US$’000

Segment assets
Jointly controlled entities
Associated companies

Total assets

Segment liabilities

Container 
transport and 
logistics

5,170,026
6,741
75,670

Others

2,480,662
–
–

Group

7,650,688
6,741
75,670

5,252,437

2,480,662

7,733,099

(3,420,098)

(55,453)

(3,475,551)

The segment of “Others” primarily includes assets and liabilities of property and corporate level activities. Assets under 
the  segment  of  “Others”  consist  primarily  of  investment  property,  available-for-sale  financial  assets,  held-to-maturity 
investments and portfolio investments together with cash and bank balances that are managed at corporate level. Liabilities 
under the segment of “Others” primarily include creditors and accruals and deferred taxation liabilities related to corporate 
level activities.

Geographical information

The Group’s two reportable operating segments operate in four main geographical areas, even though they are managed 
on a worldwide basis. Freight revenues from container transport and logistics are analysed based on the outbound cargoes 
of each geographical territory.

The Group’s total assets mainly include container vessels and containers which are primarily utilised across geographical 
markets  for  shipment  of  cargoes  throughout  the  world.  Accordingly,  non-current  assets  by  geographical  areas  are  not 
presented.

US$’000

Year ended 31st December 2012
  Continuing operations:

  Asia
  North America
  Europe
  Australia
  Unallocated *

Year ended 31st December 2011
  Continuing operations:

  Asia
  North America
  Europe
  Australia
  Unallocated *

* 

Unallocated capital expenditure comprises additions to vessels, dry-docking, containers and intangible assets.

revenue

Capital 
expenditure

4,295,526
1,069,317
887,979
206,237
–

6,459,059

3,942,912
1,071,035
839,130
158,759
–

6,011,836

67,260
15,086
196
20
702,000

784,562

23,636
2,906
458
27
717,576

744,603

99

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  operating costs

US$’000

Cargo
Vessel and voyage
Equipment and repositioning

Investment property

7.  other operating income

US$’000

Income from available-for-sale financial assets
  – Gain on disposal
  – Distribution
  – Dividend income
Interest income from banks
Interest income from held-to-maturity investments
Gain on disposal of held-to-maturity investments
Portfolio investment income
  – Fair value gain (realised and unrealised)
  – Interest income
  – Dividend income
Net gain on interest rate swap contracts
Fair value gain on foreign exchange forward contracts
Exchange gain
Others

2012

2,756,490
2,263,351
774,549

5,794,390
12,328

2011

2,583,723
2,156,814
731,142

5,471,679
12,579

5,806,718

5,484,258

2012

331
1,101
42,633
23,612
8,528
–

17,310
6,911
639
442
2,136
12,604
1,319

2011

696
–
12,137
21,170
8,372
572

–
4,570
794
933
774
8,208
1,217

117,566

59,443

The investment income from listed investments for the year amounts to US$34.9 million (2011: US$10.8 million).

8.  other operating expenses

US$’000

Business and administrative
Portfolio investment loss
  – Fair value loss (realised and unrealised)
Net loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
  – Container vessels
  – Containers
  – Others

9.  employee benefit expense

US$’000

Wages and salaries
Pension and retirement benefits
  – Defined contribution plans (note 24)
  – Defined benefit plans (note 24)

2012

440,765

–

4,062
(3,478)
480

2011

401,964

4,248

13,399
(1,983)
(205)

441,829

417,423

2012

469,200

23,002
(83)

492,119

2011

420,876

21,666
811

443,353

Employee benefit expenses of US$179.9 million (2011: US$158.1 million) are included in operating costs in the consolidated 
profit and loss account.

100

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  Directors’ and management’s emoluments

(a)  Directors’ emoluments

The remuneration of every Director is set out below:

Name of Director
US$’000

for the year ended 31st December 2012

Mr. C C Tung
Mr. Tsann Rong Chang
Prof. Roger King
Mr. Philip Chow
Mr. Kenneth G Cambie
Mr. Andrew Tung
Mr. Alan Tung
Mr. Simon Murray
Prof. Richard Wong
Mr. Edward Cheng

Salary
and
benefits

Discretionary
bonuses

employer’s
contribution
to provident
fund scheme

591
–
–
515
424
427
284
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
128
–
–
–
–
–

59
–
–
43
33
43
28
–
–
–

fees

107
45
60
3
–
–
–
19
38
19

The discretionary bonuses paid in 2012 relate to performance for year 2011.

Name of Director
US$’000

For the year ended 31st December 2011

Mr. C C Tung
Mr. Tsann Rong Chang
Prof. Roger King
Mr. Philip Chow
Mr. Kenneth G Cambie
Mr. Andrew Tung
Mr. Alan Tung
Mr. Simon Murray
Prof. Richard Wong
Mr. Edward Cheng

Salary
and
benefits

Discretionary
bonuses

Employer’s
contribution 
to provident
fund scheme

578
–
–
525
415
65
274
–
–
–

1,299
–
–
2,735
754
–
82
–
–
–

187
–
–
326
58
6
36
–
–
–

Fees

107
26
60
–
–
–
–
19
32
19

The discretionary bonuses paid in 2011 relate to performance for year 2010.

None of the Directors has waived the right to receive their emoluments.

total

757
45
60
561
585
470
312
19
38
19

Total

2,171
26
60
3,586
1,227
71
392
19
32
19

101

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  Directors’ and management’s emoluments (Continued)

(b)  five highest paid individuals

The  five  individuals  whose  emoluments  were  the  highest  in  the  Group  for  the  year  include  four  (2011:  two)  Directors 
whose emoluments are reflected in the analysis presented above. The emoluments payable to the remaining one individual 
(2011: three individuals) are as follows:

US$’000

Basic salaries, housing allowances, other allowances and 
  benefits in kind
Discretionary bonuses
Pension costs – defined contribution plans

The emoluments of the five individuals fell within the following bands:

emolument bands (US$)

384,601 ~ 448,700
448,701 ~ 512,800
512,801 ~ 576,900
576,901 ~ 641,000
705,101 ~ 769,200
2,051,201 ~ 2,115,300
2,115,301 ~ 2,179,400
2,371,701 ~ 2,435,800
2,500,001 ~ 2,564,100
3,525,601 ~ 3,589,700

(HK$3,000,001 ~ HK$3,500,000)
(HK$3,500,001 ~ HK$4,000,000)
(HK$4,000,001 ~ HK$4,500,000)
(HK$4,500,001 ~ HK$5,000,000)
(HK$5,500,001 ~ HK$6,000,000)
(HK$16,000,001 ~ HK$16,500,000)
(HK$16,500,001 ~ HK$17,000,000)
(HK$18,500,001 ~ HK$19,000,000)
(HK$19,500,001 ~ HK$20,000,000)
(HK$27,500,001 ~ HK$28,000,000)

(c)  Key management compensation

US$’000

Salaries and other employee benefits
Pension costs – defined contribution plans

2012

368
–
37

405

2011

1,051
5,301
635

6,987

Number of individuals

2012

2011

1
1
1
1
1
–
–
–
–
–

5

–
–
–
–
–
1
1
1
1
1

5

2012

4,713
437

5,150

2011

21,299
1,959

23,258

The Group usually determines and pays discretionary bonuses to employees (including Directors) around April/May each 
year based on the actual financial results of the Group for the preceding year. The discretionary bonuses shown above 
represent actual payments to the Directors and individuals during the current financial year in relation to performance 
for the preceding year.

102

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  operating profit

US$’000

Operating profit is arrived at after crediting:
  Operating lease rental income

  Land and buildings

and after charging: 
  Depreciation

  Owned assets
  Leased assets

  Operating lease rental expense

  Vessels and equipment
  Terminals and berths
  Land and buildings

  Rental outgoings in respect of an investment property
  Amortisation of intangible assets
  Amortisation of prepayments of lease premiums
  Auditors’ remuneration

  Audit
  Non-audit

2012

2011

26,104

25,117

163,118
72,228

388,132
31,816
27,308
12,328
10,859
479

2,654
1,776

162,049
80,485

433,397
29,928
27,337
12,579
13,130
285

2,648
1,449

Operating  lease  rental  expenses  of  US$418.5  million  and  US$28.8  million  (2011:  US$461.8  million  and  US$28.9  million) 
respectively are included in operating costs and other operating expenses in the consolidated profit and loss account.

12.  finance costs

US$’000

Interest expense
  Bank loans and bank overdrafts

  Wholly repayable within five years
  Not wholly repayable within five years

  Finance lease obligations

  Wholly repayable within five years
  Not wholly repayable within five years

Amount capitalised under assets

Net interest expense

2012

2011

8,247
14,471

7,792
5,239

35,749
(2,872)

32,877

3,948
9,151

4,432
9,061

26,592
(413)

26,179

The borrowing costs of the loans to finance the assets under construction (note 16) represent an average capitalisation rate of 
approximately 1.6% (2011: 0.4%).

103

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13.  taxation

US$’000

Current taxation
  Hong Kong profits tax
  Overseas taxation

Deferred taxation
  Overseas taxation

2012

2011

1,310
14,295

15,605

(2,043)

13,562

1,563
20,013

21,576

1,527

23,103

Taxation has been provided at the appropriate tax rates prevailing in the countries in which the Group operates on the estimated 
assessable profits for the year. These rates range from 12% to 47% (2011: 10% to 47%) and the rate applicable for Hong Kong 
profits tax is 16.5% (2011: 16.5%).

The associated companies in the People’s Republic of China enjoy preferential tax treatment.

The tax of the Group’s profit before taxation differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the applicable tax rate, 
being the weighted average of rates prevailing in the territories in which the Group operates, as follows:

US$’000

Profit before taxation
Share of profits of jointly controlled entities
Share of profits of associated companies

Tax calculated at applicable tax rates
Income not subject to tax
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
Tax losses not recognised
Temporary differences not recognised
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses
Utilisation of previously unrecognised temporary differences
Change in tax rates
Other items

2012

310,851
(3,016)
(12,091)

2011

162,457

(1,930) 
(12,108)

295,744

148,419

72,986
(278,389)
219,042
4,328
2,803
(394)
(3,648)
(98)
(3,068)

60,741
(145,948) 
106,146
6,532
1,120
(429) 
(4,767) 
119
(411)

13,562

23,103

104

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14.  earnings per ordinary share

The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share is based on the Group’s profit attributable to equity holders of 
the Company divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.

The basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share are the same since there are no potential dilutive shares.

US$’000

Number of ordinary shares in issue (thousands)

Group’s profit from continuing operations attributable to:
  Equity holders of the Company
  Non-controlling interests

Earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to 
  equity holders of the Company (US cents)

Group’s profit from discontinued operation attributable to:
  Equity holders of the Company

Earnings per share from discontinued operation attributable to 
  equity holders of the Company (US cents)

15.  Dividends

US$’000

Interim paid of US4.66 cents

(2011: US7.0 cents) per ordinary share

Proposed final of US7.18 cents

(2011: US nil) per ordinary share

2012

625,793

296,359
930

297,289

2011

625,793

138,645
709

139,354

47.3

22.1

–

–

43,000

6.9

2012

2011

29,198

44,932

74,130

43,805

–

43,805

The Board of Directors proposes a final dividend in respect of 2012 of US7.18 cents (2011: US nil) per ordinary share. The 
proposed dividend will be accounted for as an appropriation of retained profit in the year ending 31st December 2013.

105

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16.  property, plant and equipment

  at 31st December 2012

3,293,465

999,800

1,494,601

83,910

US$’000

Group
Cost
  At 31st December 2011
  Currency translation adjustments
  Additions
  Disposals

Accumulated depreciation
  At 31st December 2011
  Currency translation adjustments
  Charge for the year
  Disposals

  at 31st December 2012

Net book amount
  at 31st December 2012

Container
vessels and
capitalised
dry-docking
costs

assets
under
construction

freehold
land and
buildings
outside
Hong Kong

Buildings
outside
Hong Kong

leasehold
improvement
and furnitures

Vehicles,
computer
and other
equipment

total

Containers

Chassis

3,470,787
–
34,287
(211,609)

417,089
–
582,711
–

1,400,441
2
109,897
(15,739)

126,409
5
54
(42,558)

762,959
–
118,536
(146,218)

735,277

–
–
–
–

–

478,236
2
88,135
(11,279)

94,182
1
3,956
(38,168)

555,094

59,971

7,243
73
–
–

7,316

2,506
39
128
–

2,673

4,643

4,737

–

–

55,746
170
375
–

50,067
27
6,846
(4,960)

264,425
(90)
36,174
(17,318)

5,792,207
187
770,344
(292,184)

56,291

51,980

283,191

6,270,554

12,845
85
2,154
–

42,676
73
4,004
(4,434)

193,609
(12)
18,433
(16,667)

1,587,013
188
235,346
(216,766)

15,084

42,319

195,363

1,605,781

41,207

42,901

–

–

9,661

7,391

–

–

87,828

4,664,773

70,816

4,205,194

2,055

1,299,743

1,145

1,465,499

23,939

32,227

–

–

2,558,188

999,800

939,507

  At 31st December 2011

2,707,828

417,089

922,205

Net book amount of leased assets
  at 31st December 2012

  At 31st December 2011

1,198,108

1,245,004

–

–

99,580

219,350

106

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16.  property, plant and equipment (Continued)

Container
vessels and
capitalised
dry-docking
costs

assets
under
construction

freehold
land and
buildings
outside
Hong Kong

Buildings
outside
Hong Kong

leasehold
improvement
and furnitures

Vehicles,
computer
and other
equipment

total

Containers

Chassis

  At 31st December 2011

3,470,787

417,089

1,400,441

126,409

US$’000

Group
Cost
  At 31st December 2010
  Currency translation adjustments
  Additions
  Reclassification
  Disposals

Accumulated depreciation
  At 31st December 2010
  Currency translation adjustments
  Charge for the year
  Other adjustments
  Disposals

  At 31st December 2011

Net book amount
  At 31st December 2011

3,398,779
–
33,731
247,977
(209,700)

220,185
–
444,881
(247,977)
–

1,178,466
3
232,470
–
(10,498)

152,854
(149)
99
–
(26,395)

695,993
–
128,525
–
(61,559)

762,959

–
–
–
–
–

–

399,893
–
84,244
99
(6,000)

115,057
(108)
4,520
23
(25,310)

478,236

94,182

2,707,828

417,089

922,205

  At 31st December 2010

2,702,786

220,185

778,573

Net book amount of leased assets
  At 31st December 2011

  At 31st December 2010

1,245,004

1,297,779

–

–

219,350

285,903

32,227

37,797

–

–

7,353
(110)
–
–
–

7,243

2,433
(55)
128
–
–

2,506

4,737

4,920

–

–

43,799
2,221
9,726
–
–

55,746

13,490
715
1,567
(2,927)
–

12,845

42,901

30,309

–

–

51,385
(128)
3,547
–
(4,737)

263,514
554
13,655
–
(13,298)

5,316,335
2,391
738,109
–
(264,628)

50,067

264,425

5,792,207

42,366
(244)
4,558
630
(4,634)

186,736
443
18,992
249
(12,811)

1,455,968
751
242,534
(1,926)
(110,314)

42,676

193,609

1,587,013

7,391

9,019

–

–

70,816

4,205,194

76,778

3,860,367

1,145

1,465,499

563

1,584,245

(a)  The  aggregate  net  book  amount  of  assets  pledged  as  securities  for  borrowings  amounts  to  US$2,171.1  million  (2011: 
US$1,612.2 million). Specific charges on vessels of the Group include legal mortgages and assignments of insurance claims 
and charter hire income relating to these vessels.

(b)  Interest costs of US$2.9 million (2011: US$0.4 million) during the year were capitalised as part of assets under construction.

(c)  Depreciation charge of US$219.3 million (2011: US$225.6 million) for the year has been expensed in operating costs and 

US$16.0 million (2011: US$16.9 million) in other operating expenses.

(d)  As at 31st December 2012 and 2011, the buildings outside Hong Kong are held under medium-term leasehold land.

The container vessels and containers include the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under finance leases:

US$’000

Cost – capitalised finance leases
Accumulated depreciation

Net book amount

2012

2011

1,697,668
(399,980)

1,871,625
(407,271)

1,297,688

1,464,354

The Group leases various containers and container vessels under non-cancellable finance lease agreements. The lease terms 
are between 4.5 and 25 years.

107

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  investment property

US$’000

Group

Balance at beginning of year
Additions

Fair value gain

Balance at end of year

2012

2011

160,000
4,457

164,457
543

165,000

155,000
–

155,000
5,000

160,000

The investment property, “Wall Street Plaza”, is a commercial property located at 88, Pine Street, New York, USA. The property 
is situated on three parcels of freehold land, two of which are wholly owned by the Group. The freehold interest in the third 
parcel, representing approximately 10% of the site, is owned 50% by the Group and under a long-term lease to the Group expiring 
in the year 2066. The property is stated at Directors’ valuation of US$165.0 million (2011: US$160.0 million), by reference to a 
professional valuation made by an independent valuer in December 2012 on an open market basis.

18.  prepayments of lease premiums

The Group’s interests in leasehold land and land use rights represent prepaid operating lease payments for leases between 10 
and 50 years and their net book values are analysed as follows:

US$’000

Group

Leasehold land outside Hong Kong

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Amortisation

Balance at end of year

2012

2011

9,793

10,249
23
(479)

9,793

10,249

10,122
412
(285)

10,249

Amortisation  of  US$0.5  million  (2011:  US$0.3  million)  is  included  in  “other  operating  expenses”  in  the  consolidated  profit 
and loss account.

19.  Subsidiaries

US$’000

Company

2012

2011

Unlisted shares, at cost less provision

169,487

169,487

Non-current
Amount due to a subsidiary

Current
Amounts due from subsidiaries

Amounts due to subsidiaries

733,229

719,724

1,847,433

1,900,708

237,269

812,054

The amounts due from and to subsidiaries are interest free, unsecured and have no specific terms of repayment, except for 
amount payable of US$733.2 million (2011: US$719.7 million) which is not repayable within one year.

Particulars of the principal subsidiaries at 31st December 2012 are shown on pages 132 to 140.

108

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20.  Jointly controlled entities

US$’000

Group

Balance at beginning of year
Share of results
  Profit before taxation
  Taxation

Currency translation adjustments
Dividends received

Balance at end of year

2012

2011

6,741

3,380
(364)

9,757
7
(2,154)

7,610

6,060

2,225
(295)

7,990
373
(1,622)

6,741

2011

303
6,979
(541)

6,741

7,295
(5,365)

1,930

The Group’s share of assets, liabilities and results of the jointly controlled entities are summarised below:

US$’000

Non-current assets
Current assets
Current liabilities

Share of net assets

Income
Expenses

Share of profits of jointly controlled entities

Particulars of the jointly controlled entities at 31st December 2012 are shown on page 141.

2012

117
8,175
(682)

7,610

8,937
(5,921)

3,016

21.  associated companies

US$’000

Group

Balance at beginning of year
Increase in investments
Share of results
  Profit for the year

Currency translation adjustments
Dividends received

Balance at end of year

2012

2011

75,670
29,820

12,091

117,581
192
(5,856)

111,917

66,222
–

12,108

78,330
3,419
(6,079)

75,670

109

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21.  associated companies (Continued)

The Group’s share of assets, liabilities and results of the associated companies are summarised as follows:

US$’000

Non-current assets
Current assets
Non-current liabilities
Current liabilities

Share of net assets

Income
Expenses

Share of profits of associated companies

Particulars of the associated companies at 31st December 2012 are shown on page 141.

22.  intangible assets

US$’000

Group

At 1st January 2011
  Cost
  Accumulated amortisation

  Net book amount

Year ended 31st December 2011
  Opening net book amount
  Currency translation adjustments
  Additions
  Amortisation

  Closing net book amount

At 31st December 2011
  Cost
  Accumulated amortisation

  Net book amount

Year ended 31st December 2012
  Opening net book amount
  Additions
  Amortisation

  Closing net book amount

at 31st December 2012
  Cost
  Accumulated amortisation

  Net book amount

2012

158,245
10,280
(44,930)
(11,678)

111,917

37,944
(25,853)

12,091

2011

122,105
12,505
(36,689)
(22,251)

75,670

35,261
(23,153)

12,108

Computer software 
development costs

114,480
(67,832)

46,648

46,648
2
6,494
(13,130)

40,014

120,978
(80,964)

40,014

40,014
9,761
(10,859)

38,916

130,681
(91,765)

38,916

Computer software development costs mainly comprise internally generated capitalised software development costs.

Amortisation of US$10.9 million (2011: US$13.1 million) is included in “other operating expenses” in the consolidated profit 
and loss account.

110

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23.  Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities)

US$’000

Group

Deferred taxation assets
Deferred taxation liabilities

31st December 
2012

Restated
31st December 
2011

Restated
1st January 
2011

1,711
(63,924)

(62,213)

1,803
(65,817)

(64,014)

1,778
(64,200)

(62,422)

Deferred  taxation  assets  and  liabilities  are  offset  when  there  is  a  legal  right  to  set  off  current  taxation  assets  with  current 
taxation liabilities and when the deferred taxation relates to the same taxation authority. The above assets/(liabilities) shown in 
the consolidated balance sheet are determined after appropriate offsetting of the relevant amounts and include the following:

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets to be recovered 
  after more than twelve months

Deferred taxation liabilities to be settled 
  after more than twelve months

31st December
2012

Restated
31st December
2011

Restated
1st January
2011

315

247

923

(57,077)

(51,287)

(64,200)

Deferred taxation is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using applicable tax rates prevailing 
in the countries in which the Group operates. The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to offsetting of balances 
within the same taxation jurisdiction) during the year were as follows:

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets

At 31st December 2010
Currency translation adjustments
Credited to consolidated profit and loss account

At 31st December 2011
Currency translation adjustments
Charged to consolidated profit and loss account

at 31st December 2012

accelerated
accounting
depreciation

revenue
expenditure

tax
losses

–
–
1,278

1,278
6
(99)

1,185

10,207
7
278

10,492
63
(1,214)

9,341

1,999
(4)
1,300

3,295
(2)
(125)

3,168

total

12,206
3
2,856

15,065
67
(1,438)

13,694

111

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23.  Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities) (Continued)

US$’000

Deferred taxation liabilities

At 31st December 2010
  As previously reported
  Prior year adjustment (note 2)

  As restated
Currency translation 
  adjustments
(Credited)/charged to 
  consolidated profit and loss 
  account

At 31st December 2011

At 31st December 2011
  As previously reported
  Prior year adjustment (note 2)

  As restated
Currency translation 
  adjustments
(Credited)/charged to 
  consolidated profit and loss 
  account

at 31st December 2012

accelerated
tax
depreciation

revaluation

pensions

revenue
expenditure

total

19,448
–

19,448

23,470
24,286

47,756

6,506
–

6,506

(13)

–

(85)

(499)

18,936

18,936
–

18,936

2,275

50,031

25,745
24,286

50,031

–

–

(3,944)

599

14,992

50,630

(437)

5,984

5,984
–

5,984

303

217

6,504

918
– 

918

166

3,044

4,128

4,128
– 

4,128

50,342
24,286

74,628

68

4,383

79,079

54,793
24,286

79,079

6

309

(353)

(3,481)

3,781

75,907

Deferred taxation assets of US$32.3 million (2011: US$25.6 million) arising from unused tax losses of US$124.4 million (2011: 
US$102.8 million) have not been recognised in the consolidated accounts. Unused tax losses of US$119.4 million (2011: US$98.2 
million) have no expiry date and the remaining balance will expire at various dates up to and including 2017.

Deferred taxation liabilities of US$27.0 million (2011: US$27.2 million) on temporary differences associated with investments in 
subsidiaries of US$175.4 million (2011: US$183.8 million) have not been recognised as there is no current intention of remitting 
the retained profit of these subsidiaries to the holding companies in the foreseeable future.

112

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24.  pension and retirement benefits

The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension and retirement schemes in the main countries 
in which the Group operates. The total charges to the consolidated profit and loss account for the year were US$22.9 million 
(2011: US$22.5 million).

Defined contribution schemes

The  principal  defined  contribution  schemes  are  operated  in  Hong  Kong  and  the  USA.  These  schemes  cover  approximately 
79%  of  the  Group’s  employees.  Contributions  to  the  defined  contribution  schemes,  all  the  assets  of  which  are  held  in  trust 
funds separate  from  the Group, are based on a percentage  of  an  employee’s salary,  depending  upon  the  length of service of 
the employee, but the Group’s contributions to certain schemes may be reduced by contributions forfeited by those employees 
who leave the schemes prior to vesting fully in those contributions. The charges for the defined contribution schemes to the 
consolidated profit and loss account during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Group

Contributions to the schemes
Forfeitures utilised

2012

2011

23,170
(168)

23,002

21,926
(260)

21,666

Contributions totalling US$11.5 million (2011: US$11.7 million) were payable to the schemes at the balance sheet date.

Defined benefit schemes

The amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are as follows:

US$’000

Group

Schemes assets
Schemes liabilities

Net Schemes assets

Representing:
Pension and retirement assets
Pension and retirement liabilities

Note

2012

2011

(a)

44,427
(301)

44,126

44,427
(301)

44,126

38,452
(2,427)

36,025

38,452
(2,427)

36,025

The (credits)/charges recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account are as follows:

US$’000

Schemes

Note

(a)

2012

(83)

2011

811

113

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24.  pension and retirement benefits (Continued)

Defined benefit schemes (Continued)

In 2008, the Group terminated the defined benefit scheme and post-retirement medical plans in the USA at the request of the 
labour unions. All the pension assets and obligations were transferred to a defined benefit multi-employer pension plan and a 
defined benefit multi-employer post-retirement medical plan (the “Plans”) together with other industry players. Since the Group 
is not able to identify its share of the underlying financial position and performance of the Plans with sufficient reliability for 
accounting purposes, accordingly the Plans are accounted for by the Group as defined contribution plans.

(a)  Net schemes assets

The principal defined benefit schemes are operated in the United Kingdom which was valued by Barnett Waddingham 
LLP. The defined benefit schemes (the “Schemes”) cover approximately 1% of the Group’s employees and are funded. The 
assets of the funded schemes are held in trust funds separate from the Group. Contributions to these schemes are assessed 
in  accordance  with  the  advice  of  qualified  actuaries  in  compliance  with  local  practice  and  regulations.  The  actuarial 
assumptions  used  to  calculate  the  projected  benefit  obligations  of  the  Group’s  pension  schemes  vary  according  to  the 
economic conditions of the countries in which they are situated.

The net schemes assets recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are determined as follows:

US$’000

Fair value of plan assets
Present value of funded obligations

Surplus of funded plans
Unrecognised actuarial losses

Net schemes assets

Movements in the fair value of the plan assets of the schemes during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Expected return on plan assets
Actuarial gains
Contributions from the Group
Contributions from the plan members
Benefits paid
Transfer out (note)

Balance at end of year

2012

250,128
(240,043)

10,085
34,041

44,126

2012

231,135
11,240
12,091
6,257
3,877
124
(14,596)
–

250,128

2011

231,135
(216,731)

14,404
21,621

36,025

2011

233,697
236
13,375
3,457
11,106
123
(13,386)
(17,473)

231,135

114

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24.  pension and retirement benefits (Continued)

Defined benefit schemes (Continued)

(a)  Net schemes assets (Continued)

Movements in the present value of obligations of the schemes during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Current service cost
Interest cost
Actuarial losses
Contributions from the plan members
Benefits paid
Settlements
Transfer out (note)

Balance at end of year

2012

216,731
10,339
1,522
10,254
17,855
124
(14,596)
(2,186)
–

240,043

Note:  During 2011, certain employees under the defined benefit scheme have been changed to defined contribution schemes.

The (credits)/charges of the schemes recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account are as follows:

US$’000

Current service cost
Interest cost
Expected return on plan assets
Net actuarial loss

2012

1,522
10,254
(12,091)
232

2011

229,496
(272)
2,832
11,354
3,619
123
(12,850)
–
(17,571)

216,731

2011

2,832
11,354
(13,375)
–

Net (income)/expense recognised for the year

(83)

811

Credits of US$0.1 million (2011: charges of US$0.8 million) were included in other operating expenses in the consolidated 
profit and loss account.

The main actuarial assumptions made for the schemes were as follows:

Discount rate
Expected return on plan assets
Expected future salary increases
Expected future pension increases

2012

4%
5%
4%
3%

2011

5%
5%
4%
3%

Actual return on plan assets (US$’000)

18,344

17,725

Plan assets of the schemes comprise the following:

US$’000

Equity
Debt
Others

2012

2011

42,523
165,083
42,522

250,128

17%
66%
17%

100%

77,719
152,321
1,095

231,135

33%
66%
1%

100%

The expected return on plan assets is determined by considering the expected returns available on the assets underlying 
the current investment policy. Expected yields on fixed interest investments are based on gross redemption yields as at the 
balance sheet date. Expected returns on equity reflect long-term real rates of return experienced in the respective markets.

115

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24.  pension and retirement benefits (Continued)

Defined benefit schemes (Continued)

(b)  The experience adjustments of 2008 to 2012 are as follows:

US$’000

Fair value of plan assets
Present value of defined 
  benefit obligations

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

250,128

231,135

233,697

225,993

197,498

(240,043)

(216,731)

(229,496)

(237,837)

(182,312)

Plan surplus/(deficit)

10,085

14,404

4,201

(11,844)

Experience adjustment on plan assets

Percentage of plan assets (%)

Experience adjustment 
  on plan obligations

Percentage of plan obligations (%)

(6,257)

(2.5%)

(17,855)

(7.4%)

(3,457)

(10,516)

(1.5%)

(4.5%)

(3,619)

(1.7%)

(1,869)

(0.8%)

(8,798)

(3.9%)

(625)

(0.3%)

15,186

14,601

7.4%

(904)

(0.5%)

25.  restricted bank balances

US$’000

Group

Non-current
Current

Restricted bank balances

2012

2011

18,030
460

18,490

11,728
543

12,271

As  at  31st  December  2012,  the  restricted  bank  balances  of  US$18.5  million  (2011:  US$12.3  million)  are  funds  pledged  as 
securities for banking facilities or required to be utilised for specific purposes.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s restricted bank balances are mainly denominated in US dollar (2011: US dollar).

The credit quality of restricted bank balances by reference to Standard & Poor’s, and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

Group

AA
A
BBB

Company

2012

2011

389
958
17,143

18,490

416
11,855
–

12,271

Restricted bank balances – current

337

365

116

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies:

26.  available-for-sale financial assets

US$’000

Group

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Additions
Disposals
Change in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income

Balance at end of year

Available-for-sale financial assets include the following:

US$’000

Listed equity securities
  Hong Kong
  Overseas

Market value of listed equity securities
Unlisted equity security
Others

US$’000

Renminbi
Hong Kong dollar
Other currencies

27.  Held-to-maturity investments

US$’000

Group

Listed debt securities
  Hong Kong
  Overseas

Unlisted debt security
  Hong Kong

Market value

2012

2011

130,566
176
34,747
(1,398)
(9,628)

154,463

2012

39,121
8

39,129
114,500
834

154,463

2012

153,621
602
240

154,463

118,275
(5)
–
(1,532)
13,828

130,566

2011

697
8

705
128,300
1,561

130,566

2011

128,300
1,879
387

130,566

2012

2011

166,341
86,519

252,860

1,096

253,956

274,238

119,196
61,800

180,996

1,096

182,092

185,694

117

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27.  Held-to-maturity investments (Continued)

Movements in held-to-maturity investments are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Additions
Redemptions on maturity/disposals
Reclassification
Amortisation
Currency translation adjustments

Balance at end of year

2012

182,092
73,597
(3,000)
–
(53)
1,320

253,956

2011

121,737
85,170
(13,737)
(11,093)
15
–

182,092

The carrying amounts of held-to-maturity investments are mainly denominated in US dollar.

The credit quality of held-to-maturity investments by reference to Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

AAA
AA
A
BBB
BB
Non-ranking

2012

9,543
19,312
80,104
85,614
16,427
42,956

2011

8,053
22,781
71,321
53,511
–
26,426

253,956

182,092

The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying amount of held-to-maturity investments.

28.  other non-current assets

US$’000

Group

Other deposit
Others

29.  inventories

US$’000

Group

Bunker
Consumable stores

2012

2011

11,825
10,333

22,158

11,825
11,454

23,279

2012

2011

138,559
15,226

153,785

136,736
13,391

150,127

The cost of inventories recognised as expense and included in operating costs amounts to US$1,211.7 million (2011: US$1,211.6 
million).

118

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30.  Debtors and prepayments

US$’000

Group

Trade receivables
  – Fully performing
  – Past due but not impaired
  – Impaired and provided for

Less: provision for impairment

Trade receivables – net
Other debtors
Other prepayments
Utility and other deposits
Tax recoverable

2012

2011

225,042
112,786
7,365

345,193
(7,365)

337,828
87,819
95,519
8,107
14,709

543,982

195,947
95,263
5,373

296,583
(5,373)

291,210
64,417
90,147
7,570
17,250

470,594

The credit quality of trade receivables net of provision for impairment, by reference to Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s credit 
ratings (if available) or to historical information about counterparty default rates is as follows:

US$’000

Group

Counterparties with external credit rating
A
BBB
BB

Counterparties without external credit rating
Group 1
Group 2
Group 3

Notes:

Group 1 – new customers (less than 6 months).

Group 2 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with no defaults in the past.

Group 3 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with some defaults in the past.

2012

2011

19,712
1,697
7,837

29,246

20,555
288,010
17

308,582

337,828

25,833
7,739
3,337

36,909

13,207
240,556
538

254,301

291,210

119

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30.  Debtors and prepayments (Continued)

Trade receivables are normally due for payment on presentation of invoices or granted with an approved credit period ranging 
mainly from 10 to 30 days. Debtors with overdue trade receivables are requested to settle all outstanding balances before any 
further credit is granted.

The majority of past due but not impaired trade receivables are less than three months old. The ageing analysis of the Group’s 
trade receivables, net of provision for impairment, prepared in accordance with the due dates of invoices, is as follows:

US$’000

Below one month
Two to three months
Four to six months

2012

308,787
23,700
5,341

337,828

2011

270,539
18,108
2,563

291,210

There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a large number of internationally 
dispersed customers. Other debtors are fully performing.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Canadian dollar
Euro
Japanese yen
Hong Kong dollar
Renminbi
Pound sterling
Australian dollar
Other currencies

Movements on the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:

US$’000

Group

Balance at beginning of year
Provision
Write off
Unused amounts reversed

Balance at end of year

2012

105,920
21,705
50,603
12,579
6,780
43,339
13,733
22,921
60,248

337,828

2011

91,987
16,541
50,625
12,922
5,313
34,595
12,007
18,713
48,507

291,210

2012

2011

5,373
3,398
(652)
(754)

7,365

4,597
2,010
(797)
(437)

5,373

The provision for impairment has been included in “other operating expenses” in the consolidated profit and loss account.

120

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31.  portfolio investments

US$’000

Group

Listed equity securities
  Hong Kong
  Overseas

Market value of listed equity securities
Unit trust
Listed debt securities
  Hong Kong
  Overseas
Unlisted debt securities
  Hong Kong
  Overseas
Others

2012

2011

23,658
1,217

24,875
4,977

88,758
86,534

–
141
142

20,729
535

21,264
4,153

25,329
67,662

644
–
128

205,427

119,180

The carrying amounts of the Group’s portfolio investments are mainly denominated in US dollar.

The credit quality of listed debt securities by reference to Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

Group

AA
A
BBB
BB
Non-ranking

2012

2011

2,131
69,646
59,925
10,469
33,121

175,292

–
49,059
27,118
10,839
5,975

92,991

The fair value of all equity securities and debt securities are based on their current bid prices in active markets.

32.  Derivative financial instruments

US$’000

Group

assets
Non-current assets

Interest rate swap contracts

liabilities
Non-current liabilities

Interest rate swap contract

  Foreign exchange forward contract

2012

2011

7,022

7,983

(3,524)
(3,894)

(7,418)

(4,328)
(6,030)

(10,358)

121

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32.  Derivative financial instruments (Continued)

The credit quality of derivative financial assets by reference to the Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s credit rating is as follows:

US$’000

AA
A

2012

1,013
6,009

7,022

2011

7,983
–

7,983

(a)  foreign exchange forward contract

The notional principal amount of the outstanding foreign exchange forward contract at 31st December 2012 were US$28.8 
million (2011: US$33.9 million).

(b)  interest rate swap contracts

The  notional  principal  amounts  of  the  outstanding  interest  rate  swap  contracts  at  31st  December  2012  were  US$123.0 
million (2011: US$135.2 million).

US$’000

Company

Non-current liability

Interest rate swap contract

2012

2011

(3,524)

(4,328)

The  notional  principal  amount  of  the  outstanding  interest  rate  swap  contract  at  31st  December  2012  was  US$50.0  million 
(2011: US$50.0 million).

33.  Cash and bank balances

US$’000

Group

Short-term bank deposits
  – Maturing within three months from the date of placement
Cash at bank and in hand

Short-term bank deposits
  – Maturing more than three months from the date of placement

2012

2011

1,203,348
393,842

1,539,404
369,986

1,597,190

1,909,390

264,460

189,494

1,861,650

2,098,884

The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash and bank balances are mainly denominated in US dollar.

122

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33.  Cash and bank balances (Continued)

The  credit  quality  of  cash  at  bank  and  in  hand  and  short-term  bank  deposits  by  reference  to  Standard  &  Poor’s,  Moody’s  
and/or Fitch’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

Group

AAA
AA
A
BBB
BB
B
Others

US$’000

Company

Short-term bank deposits
  – Maturing within three months from the date of placement
Cash at bank and in hand

Total cash and bank balances

34.  Share capital

US$’000

Authorised:
  900,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.10 each
  65,000,000 convertible redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each
  50,000,000 redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each

Issued and fully paid:
  At 31st December 2011 and 2012

2012

2011

4,203
822,392
868,183
156,700
6,287
956
2,929

3,286
1,239,660
813,456
35,509
4,436
–
2,537

1,861,650

2,098,884

2012

2011

23,004
122

23,126

41,088
898

41,986

2012

2011

90,000
65,000
50,000

90,000
65,000
50,000

205,000

205,000

Number 
of shares 
(thousands)

ordinary 
shares 
US$’000

625,793

62,579

123

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35.  reserves

Group

US$’000

Balance at 31st December 2010
  As previously reported
  Prior year adjustment (note 2)

  As restated
Total comprehensive income 

for the year

Transactions with owners
  2010 final dividend
  2010 special dividend
  2011 interim dividend

Capital
Share Contributed redemption
reserve
surplus

premium

available-for-sale
financial assets
revaluation reserve

foreign 
exchange
translation
reserve

retained
profit

total

172,457
–

172,457

88,547
–

88,547

–

–
–
–

–

–
–
–

4,696
–

4,696

–

–
–
–

115,018
–

51,414
–

5,078,021
(24,286)

5,510,153
(24,286)

115,018

51,414

5,053,735

5,485,867

13,160

6,531

181,645

201,336

–
–
–

–
–
–

(144,071)
(1,311,044)
(43,805)

(144,071)
(1,311,044)
(43,805)

Balance at 31st December 2011

172,457

88,547

4,696

128,178

57,945

3,736,460

4,188,283

Balance at 31st December 2011
  As previously reported
  Prior year adjustment (note 2)

  As restated
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 

for the year

Transactions with owners
  2012 interim dividend
  Acquisition of additional interest 

in a subsidiary

172,457
–

172,457

88,547
–

88,547

–

–

–

–

–

–

4,696
–

4,696

–

–

–

128,178
–

57,945
–

3,760,746
(24,286)

4,212,569
(24,286)

128,178

57,945

3,736,460

4,188,283

(10,564)

1,767

296,359

287,562

–

–

–

–

(29,198)

(29,198)

264

264

Balance at 31st December 2012

172,457

88,547

4,696

117,614

59,712

4,003,885

4,446,911

124

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35.  reserves (Continued)

Company

US$’000

Balance at 31st December 2010
Total comprehensive income for the year
Transactions with owners
  2010 final dividend
  2010 special dividend
  2011 interim dividend

Balance at 31st December 2011
Total comprehensive income for the year
Transactions with owners
  2012 interim dividend

Share
premium

Contributed
surplus

Capital
redemption
reserve

172,457
–

88,547
–

4,696
–

retained
profit

1,703,579
41,517

total

1,969,279
41,517

–
–
–

–
–
–

–
–
–

(144,071)
(1,311,044)
(43,805)

(144,071)
(1,311,044)
(43,805)

172,457
–

88,547
–

4,696
–

246,176
519,508

511,876
519,508

–

–

–

(29,198)

(29,198)

Balance at 31st December 2012

172,457

88,547

4,696

736,486

1,002,186

The  profit  attributable  to  shareholders  for  the  year  is  dealt  with  in  the  accounts  of  the  Company  to  the  extent  of  US$519.5 
million (2011: profit of US$41.5 million).

Under  the  Companies  Act  of  Bermuda  and  the  Bye-laws  of  the  Company,  the  contributed  surplus  is  also  distributable. 
Accordingly, total distributable reserves of the Company amount to US$825.0 million as at 31st December 2012 (2011: US$334.7 
million).

125

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36.  Borrowings

US$’000

Group

Non-current
Bank loans
  – Secured
  – Unsecured
Finance lease obligations

Current
Bank overdrafts, unsecured
Bank loans
  – Secured
  – Unsecured
Finance lease obligations

Total borrowings

The maturity of borrowings is as follows:

US$’000

As at 31st December 2012
  2013
  2014
  2015
  2016
  2017
  2018 onwards

Wholly repayable within five years
Not wholly repayable within five years

As at 31st December 2011
  2012
  2013
  2014
  2015
  2016
  2017 onwards

Wholly repayable within five years
Not wholly repayable within five years

126

2012

2011

1,340,366
11,069
974,342

954,208
42,151
1,236,736

2,325,777

2,233,095

172

236

221,684
31,079
302,818

555,753

152,829
32,307
253,739

439,111

2,881,530

2,672,206

finance leases

Bank
loans

Bank
overdrafts

present
value

Minimum
payments

252,763
121,829
103,950
142,786
142,678
840,192

1,604,198

538,007
1,066,191

1,604,198

185,136
121,141
61,491
43,402
82,235
688,090

1,181,495

313,788
867,707

1,181,495

172
–
–
–
–
–

172

172
–

172

236
–
–
–
–
–

236

236
–

236

302,818
64,277
142,818
100,764
234,075
432,408

330,521
71,854
151,377
107,416
254,307
478,813

1,277,160

1,394,288

756,517
520,643

1,277,160

253,739
143,156
46,912
47,693
116,472
882,503

267,088
155,418
59,163
59,807
128,099
986,110

1,490,475

1,655,685

437,826
1,052,649

1,490,475

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36.  Borrowings (Continued)

Borrowings are secured by property, plant and equipment of the Group (note 16(a)).

The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows:

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations

2012

2011

US$

1.5%
0.4%

£

others

–
0.6%

1.9%
–

US$

1.4%
0.7%

£

Others

–
1.3%

–
3.5%

The carrying amounts and fair values of the non-current borrowings are as follows:

US$’000

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations

Carrying amounts

fair values

2012

1,351,435
974,342

2011

996,359
1,236,736

2012

1,352,378
974,342

2011

997,157
1,236,736

2,325,777

2,233,095

2,326,720

2,233,893

The fair values are based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the borrowing rate of 3.0% (2011: 3.4%).

The carrying amounts of short-term borrowings approximate their fair values.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Pound sterling
Other currencies

2012

2,853,427
28,044
59

2011

2,641,017
31,082
107

2,881,530

2,672,206

The fixed interest rate borrowings of the Group as at 31st December 2012 amounted to US$44.2 million (2011: US$51.2 million). 
The remaining borrowings of US$2,837.3 million (2011: US$2,621.0 million) were subject to floating interest rates.

37.  Creditors and accruals

US$’000

Group

Trade payables
Other creditors
Accrued expenses
Deferred revenue

2012

2011

279,040
72,728
374,892
57,840

784,500

247,575
82,209
342,915
36,750

709,449

127

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37.  Creditors and accruals (Continued)

The ageing analysis of the Group’s trade payables, prepared in accordance with the dates of invoices, is as follows:

US$’000

Below one month
Two to three months
Four to six months
Over six months

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade payables are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Canadian dollar
Euro
Japanese yen
Hong Kong dollar
Renminbi
Other currencies

2012

169,860
102,961
5,378
841

279,040

2012

121,894
21,150
25,976
21,133
17,311
33,023
38,553

279,040

2011

178,514
64,935
3,416
710

247,575

2011

116,281
11,590
14,098
28,000
18,909
31,498
27,199

247,575

38.  amounts due to jointly controlled entities

The amounts payable are unsecured, interest free and have no specific repayment terms.

39.  Commitments

Group

(a)  Capital commitments – property, plant and equipment

US$’000

Contracted but not provided for
Authorised but not contracted for

2012

1,324,115
305,327

2011

1,595,176
284,447

1,629,442

1,879,623

128

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39.  Commitments (Continued)

Group (Continued)

(b)  operating lease commitments

The future aggregate minimum lease rental expenses under non-cancellable operating leases are payable in the following 
years:

US$’000

As at 31st December 2012
  2013
  2014
  2015
  2016
  2017
  2018 onwards

As at 31st December 2011
  2012
  2013
  2014
  2015
  2016
  2017 onwards

Vessels and 
equipment

terminals 
and berths

land and 
buildings

203,860
148,388
88,750
65,296
64,986
228,283

27,293
29,693
43,748
61,328
66,053
3,882,390

799,563

4,110,505

191,785
143,923
133,406
83,904
70,137
320,946

944,101

4,312
4,312
4,312
4,312
4,312
33,418

54,978

25,659
17,605
6,487
4,538
4,148
3,944

62,381

27,725
17,928
11,158
2,652
2,421
356

62,240

total

256,812
195,686
138,985
131,162
135,187
4,114,617

4,972,449

223,822
166,163
148,876
90,868
76,870
354,720

1,061,319

(c)  operating lease rental receivable

The future aggregate minimum lease rental incomes under non-cancellable operating leases are receivable in the following 
years:

US$’000

At 31st December 2012
  2013
  2014
  2015
  2016
  2017
  2018 onwards

At 31st December 2011
  2012
  2013
  2014
  2015
  2016
  2017 onwards

Vessels

48,540
80,300
80,300
32,725
–
–

land and
buildings

24,252
24,127
20,906
19,756
18,478
40,217

241,865

147,736

–
54,780
80,300
80,300
25,685
–

23,801
23,311
22,687
18,671
17,275
45,975

241,065

151,720

total

72,792
104,427
101,206
52,481
18,478
40,217

389,601

23,801
78,091
102,987
98,971
42,960
45,975

392,785

129

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40.  financial guarantees

Group

The Group has not given any corporate guarantee as at 31st December 2012 (2011: nil).

Company

(a)  The  Company  has  given  corporate  guarantees  of  approximately  US$3,199.8  million  (2011:  US$3,147.4  million)  for  its 
subsidiaries. As at 31st December 2012, the amounts utilised by the subsidiaries were US$2,887.8 million (2011: US$2,677.8 
million).

(b)  The Company has given corporate guarantees for its subsidiaries in respect of future payment of operating lease rentals 

amounting to US$367.4 million (2011: US$407.8 million).

(c)  The  Company  has  given  corporate  guarantees  of  approximately  US$249.2  million  (2011:  US$369.9  million)  to  its 

subsidiaries in respect of the instalments of shipbuilding contracts.

The Directors consider that the subsidiaries are financially resourceful in settling the obligations.

41.  Notes to consolidated cash flow statement

(a)  reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations

US$’000

Operating profit from continuing operations
Write back of provision
Interest income from banks
Interest income from portfolio and held-to-maturity investments
Dividend income from portfolio investments
Depreciation
Fair value gain from an investment property
Net loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Dividend income from available-for-sale financial assets 
Distribution from available-for-sale financial assets 
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets
Gain on disposal of held-to-maturity investments
Amortisation of intangible assets
Amortisation of prepayments of lease premiums
Net gain on derivative financial instruments

Operating profit before working capital changes
Increase in inventories
Increase in debtors and prepayments
Increase/(decrease) in creditors and accruals
Change in net pension assets/liabilities
Settlement of derivative financial instruments

Cash generated from operations

2012

328,621
–
(23,612)
(15,439)
(639)
235,346
(543)
1,064
(42,633)
(1,101)
(331)
–
10,859
479
(2,578)

489,493
(3,658)
(74,671)
74,370
(8,101)
599

478,032

2011

174,598
43,000
(21,170)
(12,942)
(794)
242,534
(5,000)
11,211
(12,137)
–
(696)
(572)
13,130
285
(1,707)

429,740
(53,862)
(12,843)
(45,639)
(8,826)
(248)

308,322

130

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41.  Notes to consolidated cash flow statement (Continued)

(b)  Major non-cash transactions

During the year, major non-cash transactions included the inception of finance leases of US$39.8 million (2011: nil) and 
dividend received from available-for-sale financial assets of US$34.7 million (2011: nil) in form of shares.

(c)  analysis of cash and cash equivalents

US$’000

Bank balances and deposits maturing within three months 

from the date of placement

Bank overdrafts 

42.  approval of accounts

The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 6th March 2013.

2012

2011

1,597,190
(172)

1,909,390
(236)

1,597,018

1,909,154

131

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

Subsidiaries
Cargo System Warehouse and 
  Transport Ltd.

effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

100

particulars of issued share 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital  

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

3,000 ordinary shares of 
HK$100 each 
HK$300,000

Investment holding and 
container transportation

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Consolidated Leasing & Terminals, Inc.

100

1 common stock of no par 
value 
US$100

Investment holding, 
equipment owning and 
leasing

USA

USA

Containers No. 1 Inc.

Containers No. 2 Inc.

100

100

Dongguan Orient Container Co. Ltd.

100

Far Gain Investment Ltd.

Glory Top Investment Ltd.

100

100

Hai Dong Transportation Co. Ltd.

100

Kenwake Ltd.

Laronda Company Ltd.

LBCT LLC

100 

100

100

100

10,000 ordinary shares of 
US$10 each 
US$100,000

10,000 ordinary shares of 
US$10 each 
US$100,000

Registered capital 
HK$29,000,000

10,000 ordinary shares of 
HK$1 each 
HK$10,000

10,000 ordinary shares of 
HK$1 each 
HK$10,000

100,000 ordinary shares of 
HK$1 each 
HK$100,000

1,600,000 ordinary shares of 
£1 each 
520,000 5% cumulative 
preference shares of £1 each 
£2,120,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

Capital of 
US$500,000

Equipment owning and 
leasing

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Equipment owning and 
leasing

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Container depot

China *

China

Investment holding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Portfolio investment

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Container transport

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Investment holding

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

Portfolio investment

British Virgin 
Islands

Worldwide

Terminal operating

USA

USA

USA

Long Beach Container Terminal, Inc.

100

5,000 common stock of 
no par value 
US$500,000

Maintenance of union office 
workers and provision of 
labour services

USA

Loyalton Shipping Limited

100

Maritime Delivery Services Inc.

100

500 ordinary shares of 
US$10 each 
US$5,000

1,000 common stock of 
US$10 each 
US$10,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Trucking service

USA

USA

132

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies andJointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2012Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

particulars of issued share 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital  

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)
Newcontainer No. 36 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 37 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 40 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 41 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 42 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 43 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 45 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 48 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 49 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 50 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Newcontainer No. 5 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 6 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 9 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 10 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

100 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$25,000

100 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$25,000

600 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$150,000

600 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$150,000

600 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$150,000

600 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$150,000

100 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$25,000

100 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$25,000

100 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$25,000

100 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$25,000

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Liberia †

Worldwide

Ship owning

Liberia †

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

133

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

particulars of issued share 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital  

Subsidiaries (Continued)
Newcontainer No. 15 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 31 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 32 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 51 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 52 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 53 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 55 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 56 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 57 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 60 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 61 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 62 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 63 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 65 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

134

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

particulars of issued share 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital  

Subsidiaries (Continued)
Newcontainer No. 66 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 67 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 68 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 69 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 70 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 71 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 72 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 73 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 75 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

OLL Logistics (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

100

OOCL (Agencies) Ltd.

OOCL (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

100

100

OOCL (Assets) Holdings Inc.

100

OOCL (Assets USA) Holdings Inc.

100

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

10,000 ordinary shares of 
RM1 each 
RM10,000

200 ordinary shares of 
US$100 each 
US$20,000

2 ordinary shares of 
HK$1 each 
HK$2

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

50,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$50,000

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Malaysia

Malaysia

Investment holding

Bermuda

Worldwide

Transportation

Hong Kong

Asia Pacific

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Investment holding

Liberia †

USA

135

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

particulars of issued share 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital  

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

Liner agency

Australia

Australia

Liner agency

Belgium

Belgium

Liner agency

Cambodia

Cambodia

Liner agency

Canada

Canada

Provision of corporate 
services

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Investment holding

Hong Kong

China

Liner agency

Denmark

Northern Europe

Investment holding and liner 
territorial office

United Kingdom

Europe

Liner agency

Finland

Finland

Liner agency

France

France

Liner agency

India

India

Investment holding

British Virgin 
Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

Ireland

Ireland

Liner agency

Italy

Italy

200,000 ordinary shares of 
A$1 each 
A$200,000

226,271 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
€609,799

50,000 ordinary shares of 
Riels4,000 each 
Riels200,000,000

10,000 common stock of 
no par value 
C$91,000

2 ordinary shares of 
HK$1 each 
HK$2

2 ordinary shares of 
HK$1 each 
HK$2

1,000 ordinary shares of 
DKK500 each 
DKK500,000

5,000,000 ordinary shares of 
£1 each 
£5,000,000

150 ordinary shares of 
€16.82 each 
€2,522.82

60,000 ordinary shares of 
€15.24 each 
€914,694.10

1,000 equity shares of 
Rupees100 each 
Rupees100,000

2 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$2

100 ordinary shares of 
€1.25 each 
€125

1 quota of €10,000 each 
€10,000

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)
OOCL (Australia) Pty Ltd.

OOCL BENELUX

OOCL (Cambodia) Ltd.

OOCL (Canada) Inc.

OOCL (Corporate Services) 
  Limited

100

100

100

100

100

OOCL (China) Investment Ltd.

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

OOCL (Denmark) A/S

OOCL (Europe) Ltd.

OOCL (Finland) Ltd. Oy

OOCL (France) SA

OOCL (India) Private Ltd.

OOCL (Infotech) Holdings 
  Ltd.

OOCL (Ireland) Ltd.

OOCL (Italy) S.r.l.

136

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)
OOCL (Korea) Ltd.

effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

100

OOCL (Liners) Holdings Ltd.

100

OOCL (Logistics) Holdings Ltd.

100

OOCL (New Zealand) Ltd.

100

OOCL Pakistan (Private) Ltd.

100

OOCL (Philippines) Inc.

100

OOCL (Poland) Ltd sp.z.o.o.

100

OOCL (Portugal), Lda

OOCL (Russia) Ltd.

100 
100

100

OOCL (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

100

OOCL (Sweden) AB

OOCL (Switzerland) AG

OOCL (Taiwan) Co. Ltd.

100

100

100

OOCL (Terminals) Investment Ltd.

100

particulars of issued share 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital  

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

16,000 common stock of 
Won10,000 each 
Won160,000,000

2 ordinary shares of 
HK$1 each 
HK$2

10,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$10,000

100 ordinary shares of 
NZD10 each 
NZD1,000

1,350,000 ordinary shares of 
PKR10 each 
PKR13,500,000

55,000 common stock of 
Peso100 each 
Peso5,500,000

1,000 ordinary shares of 
PLN50 each 
PLN50,000

1 quota of €24,500 each 
1 quota of €500 each 
€25,000

1 participatory share of 
Rub10,000 each 
Rub10,000

100,000 ordinary shares of 
S$1 each 
S$100,000

100,000 ordinary shares of 
SEK1 each 
SEK100,000

200,000 ordinary shares of 
CHF1 each 
CHF200,000

10,000,000 ordinary shares of 
NT$10 each 
NT$100,000,000

500 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$500

Liner agency

Korea

Korea

Investment holding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Investment holding

British Virgin 
Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

New Zealand

New Zealand

Liner agency

Pakistan

Pakistan

Liner agency

Philippines

Philippines

Liner agency

Poland

Poland

Liner agency

Portugal

Portugal

Liner agency and forwarding Russia

Russia

Liner agency

Singapore

Singapore

Liner agency

Sweden

Sweden

Liner agency

Switzerland

Switzerland

Liner agency

Taiwan

Taiwan

Investment holding

British Virgin 
Islands

Worldwide

137

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)
OOCL (USA) Inc.

OOCL (Vietnam) Co. Ltd.

OOCL China Domestics Ltd.

OOCL Logistics Limited

OOCL LLC

100

100

100

100

100

effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

particulars of issued share 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital  

1,030 common stock of 
US$1 each 
US$1,030

Legal capital 
US$500,000

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

Liner agency

USA

USA

Liner agency

Vietnam

Vietnam

Registered capital 
RMB21,250,000

Freight agency and cargo 
consolidation

China ±

China

10,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$10,000

Capital of 
US$500,000

Investment holding

British Virgin 
Islands

Hong Kong

Investment holding

USA

USA

OOCL Logistics (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

100

200 ordinary shares of 
US$100 each 
US$20,000

Investment holding, 
management of international 
transportation and logistics

Bermuda

Asia Pacific

OOCL Logistics (Australia) Pty. Limited 100

OOCL Logistics (Cambodia) Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (Canada) Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (China) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (Europe) Ltd.

100

100

OOCL Logistics (Hong Kong) Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (India) Private Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (Japan) Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (Korea) Ltd.

100

138

200,000 ordinary shares of 
A$1 each 
A$200,000

1,250 ordinary shares of 
Riels4,000 each 
Riels5,000,000

1,000 common stock of 
C$1 each 
C$1,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding 

Australia

Australia

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding 

Cambodia

Cambodia

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Canada

Canada

Registered capital 
US$4,840,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding 

China *

China

2 ordinary shares of 
£1 each 
£2

50,000 ordinary shares of 
HK$10 each 
HK$500,000

35,000 equity shares of 
Rupee100 each 
Rupee3,500,000

200 ordinary shares of 
Yen50,000 each 
Yen10,000,000

30,000 common stock of 
Won10,000 each 
Won300,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

United Kingdom

Europe

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

India

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Japan

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Korea

India

Japan

Korea

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

particulars of issued share 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital  

Subsidiaries (Continued)
OOCL Logistics (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (Taiwan) Ltd.

100

2 ordinary shares of 
S$1 each 
S$2

4,250,000 ordinary shares of 
NT$10 each 
NT$42,500,000

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Singapore

Singapore

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Taiwan

Taiwan

OOCL Logistics (USA) Inc.

100

100 common stock of 
no par value 
US$200

Logistics, cargo 
consolidation, forwarding 
and investment holding

USA

Worldwide

OOCL Logistics Line Limited

100

OOCL Logistics Warehousing and 
  Transportation (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.

OOCL Logistics Warehousing and 
  Transportation (Tianjin) Co. Ltd.

# OOCL Transport & 

  Logistics Holdings Ltd.

OOCL Warehousing 
(Shanghai) Limited

# OOIL (Investments) Inc.

Orient Overseas Associates

Orient Overseas Building Corp.

Orient Overseas Container 
  Line (China) Co. Ltd.

Orient Overseas Container 
  Line (Europe) Ltd.

Orient Overseas Container 
  Line (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

Orient Overseas Container 
  Line (Spain), S.L.

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

2 ordinary shares of 
HK$1 each 
HK$2

Registered capital 
US$1,000,000

Registered capital 
US$4,700,000

169,477,152 ordinary shares 
of US$1 each 
US$169,477,152

Registered capital 
US$10,000,000

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Hong Kong

Worldwide

Warehousing

China *

China

Warehousing, transportation 
and logistics services

China *

China

Investment holding

Bermuda

Worldwide

Warehousing, freight 
forwarding and logistics 
services

China *

China

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Limited partnership

Property owning

Property owning

USA

USA

USA

USA

10 common stock of 
no par value 
US$150,000

Registered capital 
US$2,800,000

66,000,000 ordinary shares of 
£1 each 
£66,000,000 

350,000 ordinary shares of 
RM1 each 
RM350,000

3,100 ordinary shares of 
€1 each 
€3,100

Liner agency

China *

China

Investment holding

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

Liner agency

Malaysia

Malaysia

Liner agency

Spain

Spain

139

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

particulars of issued share 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital  

100

100

100

60

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

Container transport and ship 
management

Cayman Islands

Worldwide

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Container transport

Hong Kong

Worldwide

Container depot

China §

China

Portfolio investment

British Virgin 
Islands

Worldwide

Investment holding

USA

USA

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$25,000,000

10,000 ordinary shares of 
HK$100 each 
HK$1,000,000

Registered capital 
US$9,350,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

40 class A common stock of 
US$1 each
160 class B common stock of 
US$1 each
20,000 12% series A 
non-cumulative 
non-voting preferred stock of 
US$1,000 each
18,000 11% series B 
non-cumulative 
non-voting preferred stock of 
US$1,000 each
19,500 12% series C 
non-cumulative 
non-voting preferred stock of 
US$1,000 each
19,000 12% series D 
non-cumulative 
non-voting preferred stock of 
US$1,000 each 
US$76,500,200

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)
Orient Overseas Container 
  Line (UK) Ltd.

Orient Overseas Container 
  Line Inc.

Orient Overseas Container 
  Line Ltd.

Shanghai OOCL Container 
  Transportation Co. Ltd.

Soberry Investments Ltd.

Wall Street Plaza, Inc.

Wealth Capital Corporation

100

140

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

associated companies
Ningbo Yuan Dong Terminal Co. Ltd.

Tianjin Port Alliance International 
  Container Terminal Co. Ltd.

Jointly controlled entities
OOCL (UAE) LLC

Qingdao Orient International 
  Container Storage & 
  Transportation Co. Ltd.

effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

particulars of issued share 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital  

20

20

49

59

Registered capital 
RMB1,561,000,000

Registered capital 
US$160,000,000

300 ordinary shares of 
AED1,000 each 
AED300,000

Registered capital 
RMB69,900,000

# 

† 

* 

§ 

± 

Direct subsidiaries of the Company.

Companies incorporated in Liberia but redomiciled to the Marshall Islands.

Wholly foreign-owned enterprise.

Sino-foreign equity joint venture enterprise.

Domestic joint venture enterprise.

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

Terminal operating

China §

China

Terminal operating

China §

China

Liner agency

Dubai

Dubai

Container depot

China §

China

141

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fleet

The following table sets out the Group’s vessels as at 31st December 2012.

teU 
CapaCitY oWNerSHip

SerViCe iN 
WHiCH USeD

Date 
plaCeD iN 
SerViCe

SerViCe 
SpeeD iN 
KNotS

5,344
4,583
8,888
2,808
5,344
8,888
4,578
5,714
4,578
4,578
4,578
8,063
8,063
4,578
5,560
4,578
8,063
5,714
8,063
5,560
8,063
4,583
4,402
8,063
8,063
4,578
4,578
8,063
8,063
4,578
4,578
4,578
8,063
4,578

8,063
4,578
8,063
4,578
8,063
8,063
4,578
8,063
8,063
4,578
3,398
7,506
7,859
5,888

1,216
1,036
4,256

Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Operating Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease

Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Atlantic
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Asia-Europe
Asia-Europe
Asia-Europe
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Trans-Atlantic
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia-
New Zealand
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
N/A

Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Intra-Asia

1995
2006
2011
1998
1995
2011
2010
2000
2009
2010
2010
2010
2010
2009
1999
2009
2004
2000
2010
1999
2010
2006
2003
2006
2005
2009
2008
2006
2004
2007
2010
2007
2003
2009

2004
2008
2004
2010
2003
2007
2008
2005
2007
2007
2012
2011
2011
2006

2011
2012
2011

24.6
24.2
25.8
21
24.6
25.8
24.5
24.6
24.5
24.5
24.5
25.2
25
24.5
24.9
24.5
25.2
24.6
25.2
24.6
25.2
24.2
23
25
25.2
24.5
24.5
25.2
25.2
24.5
24.5
24.5
25.2
24.5

25.2
24.5
25.2
24.5
25.2
25.2
24.5
25.2
25.2
24.5
22.4
21.7
20
25

19
18.5
24.5

flaG

Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong

Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Antigua & Barbuda
Germany
Germany
Hong Kong

Marshall Islands
Antigua & Barbuda
Germany

VeSSel NaMe

OOCL America
OOCL Australia
OOCL Beijing
OOCL Belgium
OOCL California
OOCL Canada
OOCL Charleston
OOCL Chicago
OOCL Dalian
OOCL Guangzhou
OOCL Le Havre
OOCL London
OOCL Luxembourg
OOCL Nagoya
OOCL New York
OOCL Norfolk
OOCL Rotterdam
OOCL San Francisco
OOCL Seoul
OOCL Shanghai
OOCL Washington
OOCL Zhoushan
OOCL Montreal
OOCL Asia
OOCL Atlanta
OOCL Brisbane
OOCL Busan
OOCL Europe
OOCL Hamburg
OOCL Houston
OOCL Jakarta
OOCL Kobe
OOCL Long Beach
OOCL New Zealand

OOCL Ningbo
OOCL Panama
OOCL Qingdao
OOCL Savannah
OOCL Shenzhen
OOCL Southampton
OOCL Texas
OOCL Tianjin
OOCL Tokyo
OOCL Yokohama
Adelheid-S
Berlin Express (Note)
Bremen Express (Note)
Canada Express (ex. 
  OOCL Dubai) (Note)
Carla Rickmers
Conmar Bay
CSAV La Ligua

142

Fleet and Container InformationOrient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
teU 
CapaCitY oWNerSHip

SerViCe iN 
WHiCH USeD

Date 
plaCeD iN 
SerViCe

SerViCe 
SpeeD iN 
KNotS

fleet (Continued)

VeSSel NaMe

CSAV Lonquimay

Dalian Express (Note)
E.R. Denver
E.R. Kingston
E.R. Yantian
Frisia Lahn
Grete Sibum
Hansa Castella
Hansa Centaur
Hermann Wulff
Ikaria
Italy Express (ex. OOCL 
  Vancouver) (Note)
Japan (ex. OOCL Japan) 

(Note)

Juliette Rickmers
Kapitan Maslov
King Bruce
Lindavia
Main Trader
Mare Atlanticum
Masovia
Ningbo Express (ex. 
  Hong Kong Express) 

(Note)
Nordic Philip
Nordic Stani
NYK Pegasus
OOCL Antwerp (Note)
OOCL Britain
OOCL China
OOCL Hong Kong
OOCL Kaohsiung
OOCL Kuala Lumpur
OOCL Netherlands
OOCL Novgorod (ex. 
  A La Marine)
OOCL Oakland
OOCL Rauma (ex. 
  Elysee)
OOCL St Petersburg 

(ex. Elan)

OOCL Taichung 

(ex. Sinar Batam)

Paola
Perla
San Aurelio

Santa Rafaela
Sattha Bhum
Seaspan Felixstowe
Seaspan Ningbo
SFL Avon
Singapore (ex. OOCL 
  Singapore) (Note)

4,300

7,506
5,043
4,253
4,253
1,114
1,036
1,645
1,645
2,732
5,576
5,888

5,344

5,060
1,726
1,710
2,078
2,702
4,038
1,504
7,506

1,036
1,036
6,200
5,888
5,344
5,344
5,344
5,888
5,888
5,390
1,440

5,888
1,440

1,008

1,560

1,100
1,118
1,841

4,112
2,732
4,253
4,253
1,740
5,390

Chartered

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Asia-Australia-
New Zealand
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
N/A

Chartered

N/A

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Chartered
Chartered

Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific

Intra-Europe
Intra-Europe
Trans-Pacific
N/A
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Trans-Atlantic
N/A
Intra-Europe

Trans-Pacific
Intra-Europe

2012

2010
2012
2012
2012
2012
2011
2012
2011
2012
2012
2006

1996

2012
2012
2009
2012
2011
2011
2012
2010

2011
2012
2012
2006
1996
1996
1995
2006
2007
1997
2012

2007
2012

Chartered

Intra-Europe

2005

Chartered

Intra-Asia

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia-
New Zealand
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
N/A

2008

2012
2012
2012

2012
2012
2012
2012
2012
1997

flaG

Liberia

Germany
Liberia
Liberia
Liberia
Liberia
Cyprus
Liberia
Liberia
Germany
Liberia
Panama

Hong Kong

Liberia
Cyprus
Marshall Islands
Liberia
Liberia
Antigua & Barbuda
Liberia
Germany

Cyprus
Cyprus
Panama
Panama
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Singapore
Singapore
Hong Kong
Hong Kong

Panama
The Netherlands

The Netherlands

18

21.7
18
18
18
19.6
18
19
19
19
18
25

22

17
14.3
19
16
19
21
19
21.7

18
18
21.3
25
22
22
22
25
25
22
19

25
19

18

18.5

Hong Kong

17
19
20

18
17
18
18
16
24.6

Antigua & Barbuda
Marshall Islands
Liberia

Germany
Singapore
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Marshall Islands
Hong Kong

143

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Fleet and Container Information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fleet (Continued)

VeSSel NaMe

Sonderborg Strait
Sunset Bay
Teng Yun He
Thailand Express (ex. 
  OOCL Seattle) (Note)
Thuringia
Victoria Trader
Vietnam Express (ex. 
  OOCL Italy) (Note)
Wellington Strait

Yantian Express (ex. 
  Shanghai Express) 

(Note)
Zim Shekou
total 106 VeSSelS

teU 
CapaCitY oWNerSHip

SerViCe iN 
WHiCH USeD

Date 
plaCeD iN 
SerViCe

SerViCe 
SpeeD iN 
KNotS

flaG

1,085
1,504
1,702
5,888

4,252
1,300
5,888

1,740

7,506

4,250
497,810

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Chartered

Chartered

Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
N/A

Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
N/A

Asia-Australia-
New Zealand
Trans-Pacific

2012
2012
2009
2007

2012
2012
2007

2012

2011

15
16
20
25

17.5
19.6
25

20

21.7

Antigua & Barbuda
Liberia
China
Panama

United Kingdom
Liberia
Singapore

Liberia

Germany

Chartered

Intra-Asia

2012

24.5

Liberia

Note:  As at 31st December 2012, Vietnam Express (ex.OOCL Italy), Italy Express (ex.OOCL Vancouver), Canada Express (ex.OOCL Dubai), Thailand Express 

(ex.OOCL Seattle), OOCL Antwerp, Japan (ex.OOCL Japan) and Singapore (ex.OOCL Singapore) were chartered out to Hapag Lloyd AG; and Ningbo 

Express (ex.Hong Kong Express), Dalian Express, Berlin Express, Yantian Express (ex.Shanghai Express) and Bremen Express were chartered in from 

Hapag Lloyd AG under swapping program.

Container information

The Group owned, purchased on finance lease terms or leased under operating lease agreements 517,861 units (834,561 TEU) as of 
31st December 2012. Approximately 68.73% of the container fleet in TEU capacity was owned or purchased under finance leases 
with the remaining ones under operating lease agreements.

In addition, at 31st December 2012 the Group owned, purchased on finance lease terms or leased under operating lease terms 9,063 
trailer chassis.

144

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012Fleet and Container Information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
long Beach Container terminal, llC. (lBCt llC)

location:

Long Beach, California, USA

Status of terminal: 

A 90.8 acre, three berth container facility operated under a long-
term preferential use agreement from the Port of Long Beach.

equipment/facilities:  

Three  container-vessel  berths;  seven  Post-Panamax  quayside 
container  gantry  cranes;  five  side  picks;  12  rubber-tired  gantry 
cranes;  75  yard  tractors;  11  top  handlers;  12  utility  forklifts; 
56  yard  chassis;  various  pick-up  trucks  and  other  vehicles  and 
handling equipment.

Building facilities:

13,000 sq ft main office building; 3,200 sq ft marine operations 
building; 9,600 sq ft repair shop.

The  newly  signed  agreement  with  the  Port  of  Long  Beach 
combines two terminals into one modern and highly automated 
terminal  which  can  accommodate  the  simultaneous  operation 
of  three  13,000  TEU  vessels.  The  completion  of  the  project  is 
estimated to be in 2019.

principal Customers:

OOCL, NYK, Hapag Lloyd

Kaohsiung Container terminal (KaoCt)

location:

Pier 65 and 66 Kaohsiung Harbour, Kaohsiung, Taiwan

Status of terminal:

As  one  of  the  original  container  facilities  in  the  Kaohsiung 
Harbour,  the  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  has  deep-
water  berths  of  14.5  meters  and  the  entire  facility  has  been 
modernised since 2002 and upgraded in 2012 with the ability to 
handle two 8,800-TEU vessels at the same time.

equipment/facilities:

Two  container-vessel  berths  (760  meters  long)  on  a  total  of 
approximately  56  acres  operating  24-hour,  7-days  a  week  basis 
for  vessel  and  gate  activities:  Six  Post-Panamax  quay  cranes 
including  four  with  19  rows  and  two  with  20  rows  of  twin  20 
ft  lifting  capacity;  18  rail-mounted  gantry  cranes;  five  empty 
stackers and various shipside handling equipment.  

To  further  enhance  services  and  improve  efficiency,  terminal 
upgrade  projects  will  continue  to  be  carried  out  which  include 
an  expansion  of  the  container  storage  area  by  1,500  TEU  in 
2013.  After  the  completion  of  these  projects,  rail-mounted 
gantry cranes will operate more efficiently and carbon emission 
will be further reduced.

Building facilities (approximate area):

2,174  sqm  office  building,  7,000  sqm  container  freight  station, 
720 sqm maintenance building

principal Customers:

ANL,  APL,  COSCO,  China  Shipping,  Evergreen  Marine  Corp, 
Hapag Lloyd, Hyundai Marine, NYK, OOCL, WHL, Yang Ming 
and ZIM

145

Terminal InformationOrient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012US$’000 

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

Consolidated profit and loss Data 
Revenue 
Operating profit/(loss) 
Finance costs 
Profit/(loss) before taxation 
Profit/(loss) for the year from 
  continuing operations 
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued 
operations 
Profit/(loss) for the year 
Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary 

shareholders 
Per Ordinary Share 
  Earnings/(loss) (US cents) 

from continuing operations
from discontinued operations

  Dividends (US cents) 
Weighted average number of 
  ordinary shares in issue (’000) 

Consolidated Balance Sheet Data 
Property, plant and equipment 
Liquid assets 
Assets held for sale 
Liabilities directly associated with assets  
  classified as held for sale 
Other net current (liabilities)/assets 
Total assets 
Long-term debt 
Total long and short-term debt 
Net debt/(liquid assets) 
Ordinary shareholders’ equity 

other financial information 
Depreciation 
Capital expenditure 

Consolidated financial ratios/percentages 
Debt to equity ratio 
Net debt/(cash) to equity ratio 
Return/(loss) on average ordinary

shareholders’ equity (%) 

Accounts payable as a % of revenue 
Accounts receivable as a % of revenue 
Net asset value per ordinary share  (US$) 

3,241,113
359,384
(18,740)
353,306

4,140,328
729,008
(43,787)
696,337

4,345,647
693,563
(55,744)
644,685

4,609,751
621,364
(71,721)
553,218

5,651,030
687,437
(99,078)
592,024

6,530,855
397,764
(81,016)
322,546

4,350,195
(332,237)
(35,347)
(361,870)

6,033,402
918,807
(29,091)
898,776

6,011,836
174,598
(26,179)
162,457

6,459,059
328,621
(32,877)
310,851

329,161

670,598

615,198

528,335

553,749

297,569

(376,104)

869,817

139,354

297,289

–
329,161

–
670,598

36,093
651,291

52,805
581,140

1,994,653
2,548,402

(22,040)
275,529

(24,501) 1,004,554
(400,605) 1,874,371

43,000
182,354

–
297,289

329,044

670,449

650,854

580,603

2,546,979

272,337

(402,294) 1,866,780

181,645

296,359

53.9
–
13.76

108.5
–
27.27

98.2
5.8
27.00

84.4
8.4
103.00

88.3
318.7
103.00

47.1
(3.6)
11.00

(60.4)
(3.9)
–

137.8
160.5
283.80

22.1
6.9
7.00

47.3
–
11.84

610,486

618,024

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

1,579,798
680,806
–

2,132,066
1,105,011
–

2,593,946
1,286,579
–

2,777,004
1,167,924
406,232

3,350,844
2,244,865
–

3,780,945
2,077,087
–

3,798,048
1,354,387
1,268,254

3,860,367
4,132,897
–

4,205,194
2,413,132
–

4,664,773
2,339,531
–

–
(422,020)
2,754,910
840,677
1,098,162
417,356
1,110,754

–
(227,924)
4,014,602
1,427,690
1,581,499
476,488
1,809,409

–
(165,629)
4,814,916
1,650,044
1,838,592
552,013
2,284,330

(178,992)
56,348
5,600,003
1,870,890
2,068,798
900,874
2,727,206

–
75,034
7,213,644
1,864,436
2,206,184
(38,681)
4,176,368

–
342,756
7,701,635
2,218,251
2,372,146
295,059
4,387,071

–
(142,406)
(475,304)
(582,807)
9,075,183
7,330,174
2,416,367
2,135,967
2,664,122
2,568,022
1,213,635 (1,468,775)
5,548,446
3,944,684

–
(543,133)
7,733,099
2,233,095
2,672,206
259,074
4,250,862

–
(654,625)
8,265,080
2,325,777
2,881,530
541,999
4,509,490

114,740
437,801

144,860
806,491

157,302
635,494

178,761
633,128

173,988
752,903

181,898
650,568

207,275
380,161

255,010
345,255

242,534
744,603

235,346
784,562

0.99
0.38

33.4
15.0
7.6
1.95

0.87
0.26

45.9
13.4
8.7
2.89

0.80
0.24

31.8
13.9
9.6
3.65

0.76
0.33

23.2
12.2
8.3
4.36

0.53
(0.01)

73.8
13.3
12.3
6.67

0.54
0.07

6.4
12.8
6.7
7.01

0.65
0.31

(9.7)
13.8
8.7
6.30

0.48
(0.26)

39.3
12.6
7.5
8.87

0.63
0.06

3.7
11.8
7.8
6.79

0.64
0.12

6.8
12.1
8.4
7.21

The results of discontinued operations prior to 2008 have not been restated or reclassified. 

The accounting policy on HKAS12 ‘Income taxes’ was changed in 2012 and the figures prior to 2010 have not been restated to reflect this change. 

Notes:

(1) 

(2) 

146

10-Year Financial Summary Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive Directors

Principal Registrar

Solicitors

Mr. TUNG Chee Chen

(Chairman, President and

  Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Kenneth Gilbert CAMBIE
(Chief Financial Officer)
Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan

Non-Executive Directors

Professor Roger KING
Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah

Independent Non-Executive 
Directors

Mr. Simon MURRAY
Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest
Professor WONG Yue Chim Richard
Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward

Butterfield Fulcrum Group
(Bermuda) Limited
  26 Burnaby Street
  Hamilton HM11
  Bermuda

Branch Registrar

Computershare Hong Kong 
Investor Services Limited
  Shops 1712-1716, 17th Floor
  Hopewell Centre
  183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai
  Hong Kong

Listing Exchange

The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong 
Limited 
  Stock Code: 316

Company Secretary

Ms. LEE Chee Fun Lammy

Website

http://www.ooilgroup.com

Conyers Dill & Pearman
  Clarendon House
  2 Church Street
  Hamilton HM11
  Bermuda

  and at

  2901 One Exchange Square
  8 Connaught Place
  Central
  Hong Kong

Ince & Co
  Rooms 3801-6, 38th Floor

ICBC Tower, Citibank Plaza

  3 Garden Road, Central
  Hong Kong

Slaughter and May
  47th Floor, Jardine House
  One Connaught Place
  Central
  Hong Kong

Authorised Representatives

Major Bankers

Auditor

PricewaterhouseCoopers
Certified Public Accountants
  22nd Floor
  Prince’s Building, Central
  Hong Kong

Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited
Citibank, N.A.
HSBC Holdings plc
HSH Nordbank
Industrial and Commercial Bank of 
  China (Asia) Limited
National Australia Bank Limited
Oversea-Chinese Banking 
  Corporation Limited
Standard Chartered Bank 
(Hong Kong) Limited

Mr. Kenneth Gilbert CAMBIE
Ms. LEE Chee Fun Lammy

Principal Office

33rd Floor
Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road, Wanchai
Hong Kong

Registered Office

Clarendon House
2 Church Street
Hamilton HM11
Bermuda

Corporate Information 
 
 
 
O
r
i
e
n
t

O
v
e
r
s
e
a
s

(
I

n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
)

i

L
m

i
t
e
d

A
n
n
u
a
l

R
e
p
o
r
t
2
0
1
2

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
(Incorporated in Bermuda with Limited Liability)

33rd Floor Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong   Telephone: (852) 2833 3838
www.ooilgroup.com

Design and Production by: Toppan Vite Limited

This report is printed on paper in accordance with the standards below

Acid Free     Lignin Free     Dioxin Free     Biodegradable     ISO9001     ISO14001

2012

Annual Report
Orient Overseas (International) Limited

(Incorporated in Bermuda with Limited Liability)

OOCL San FranciscoOOCL ChicagoOOCL ZhoushanOOCL AustraliaOOCL BeijingOOCL CanadaOOCL New YorkOOCL CanadaOOCL ShanghaiOOCL ShenzhenOOCL Long BeachOOCL HamburgOOCL QingdaoOOCL NingboOOCL AtlantaOOCL SouthamptonOOCL KobeOOCL HoustonOOCL YokohamaOOCL New ZealandOOCL CaliforniaOOCL TianjinOOCL Jakarta   OOCL TexasOOCL NetherlandOOCL Rotterdam   OOCL AmericaOOCL SavannahOOCL GuangzhouOOCL LuxembourgOOCL SavannahOOCL WashingtonOOCL Hong KongOOCL CharlestonOOCL ChinaOOCL Montreal  OOCL NorfolkOOCL BelgiumOOCL BrisbaneOOCL TokyoOOCL PanamaOOCL DalianOOCL NagoyaOOCL LondonOOCL BusanOOCL Le Havre   OOCL SeoulOOCL EuropeOOCL AsiaOOCL CanadaOOCL Beijing 
 
 
 
 
