(Incorporated in Bermuda with Limited Liability)
Stock code: 0316.HK

ANNUAL REPORT 2018

Corporate Profile

Corporate Profile

Corporate Profile

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (“OOIL”),  a  company  with  US$6.6  billion 
in total revenues, has principal business activities in container transport and logistics 
services.  Listed  on  The  Stock  Exchange  of  Hong  Kong,  the  OOIL  Group  has  more 
than 370 offices in over 80 countries/regions.

Orient  Overseas  Container  Line  and  OOCL  are  trade  names  for  transportation 
provided  separately  by  Orient  Overseas  Container  Line  Limited  (“OOCLL”)  and 
OOCL  (Europe)  Limited  respectively  and  both  are  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  of 
OOIL.  OOCL  is  one  of  the  world’s  largest  integrated  international  transportation, 
logistics and terminal companies, and is an industry leader in the use of information 
technology  and  e-commerce  to  manage  the  entire  cargo  transport  process.  OOCL’s 
modern  fleet  today  includes  some  of  the  youngest,  largest,  fuel  efficient,  and 
environmentally  friendly  vessels  carrying  cargo  on  hundreds  of  trade  routes  around 
the world, providing a vital link in Global Trade.

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Contents

Contents

1
2
3
10
14
18
24
34
50
56
59

62
88
99
100
105

184

Contents
Financial Highlights
Significant Events – 2018
Chairman’s Statement
Operations Review
Major Customers and Suppliers
Corporate Responsibility
Financial Review
Board of Directors
Senior Management
Shareholder Section
59  Financial Calendar
60  Shareholder Information
Corporate Governance Report
Report of the Directors
Index – Financial Information
Independent Auditor’s Report
Consolidated Financial Statements
105  Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
106  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
107  Consolidated Balance Sheet
109  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
110  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
111  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
175  Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
Other Information
184  Fleet and Container Information
187  10-Year Financial Summary
188  Corporate Information

11

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Financial Highlights

Financial Highlights

US$M

Consolidated Profit and Loss
Revenue
Operating profit
Revaluation of Wall Street Plaza
Finance costs
Profit from continuing operations
Profit before taxation (including discontinued operation)
Profit for the year

Consolidated Balance Sheet
Liquid assets
Property, plant and equipment
Total assets
Borrowings
Total liabilities
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

Consolidated Net Cash Flow
Operating activities
Investing activities
Financing activities
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents

Key Ratios
Operating margin
Gross debt to equity
Net debt to equity
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Earnings per ordinary share (US cents)
Net asset value per ordinary share (US dollar)

US$M

300

200

100

0

-100

-200

-300

2

2018

6,573
263
40
(143)
75
167
108

2,247
5,880
10,054
4,198
5,319
4,735

453
(451)
(298)
(296)

4%
0.89
0.41
2%
17.3
7.57

Restated
2017

Increase/
(decrease) %

5,982
238
43
(97)
147
150
138

2,534
6,251
10,069
4,554
5,387
4,683

370
(361)
305
314

4%
0.97
0.43
3%
22.0
7.48

10%
11%
(7%)
47%
(49%)
11%
(22%)

(11%)
(6%)
(0%)
(8%)
(1%)
1%

22%
25%
N/M
N/M

0%
(8%)
(2%)
(1%)
(21%)
1%

10%

8%

6%

4%

2%

0%

-2%

-4%

-6%

10%

5%

0%

-5%

-10%

US$

10

8

6

4

2

0

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Profit/(loss) for the year (L.H.S.)

Operating margin (R.H.S.)

Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share (L.H.S.)

Return on Average Ordinary Shareholders’ Equity (R.H.S.)

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
Significant Events – 2018

JANUARY  1   2

Significant Events – 2018

OOCL  inaugurated  a  new  intermodal  block  train  service  with  the  first 
shipment from  Yiwu West Station to the Ningbo–Zhoushan Port. With 
the  support  from  the  Ningbo–Zhoushan  Port  Group,  Yiwu  Municipal 
Government and Shanghai Railway Bureau, OOCL can offer this service 
on a weekly basis linking Yiwu to prominent markets such as the Middle 
East,  Africa,  India  and  Pakistan  which  are  all  part  of  China’s  Belt  and 
Road initiative.

1

OOCL Indonesia,  the  last  in  the  series  of  six  21,413 
TEU  containerships  that  OOCL  ordered  from  Samsung 
Heavy  Industries,  was  christened  and  named  by  Mrs. 
Shirley Peng and Mrs. Mary Liu on 17th January. OOCL 
Indonesia  began  her  maiden  voyage  in  January  and 
joined her other five sister vessels on OOCL’s Asia–North 
Europe Loop 1 (LL1) service.

2

FEBRUARY  3

OOCL  Logistics  developed  an  online  CO 2  Emission 
Calculator  which  helps  shippers  to  calculate  an  estimation 
of  their  carbon  footprint  in  their  supply  chains.  The 
calculations are based on trusted data published by the Clean 
Cargo  Working  Group  (CCWG)  for  sea  shipments  and  the 
Department  for  Environment,  Food  and  Rural  Affairs  –  UK 
(DEFRA) for air shipments.

33

3

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Significant Events – 2018

MARCH  4

On  2nd  March,  our  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  received  a  Golden  Vessel  Award  from  the  Taiwan  International  Ports 
Corporation Ltd., for being one of the terminal operators that achieved more than 1 million TEU in annual throughput for the 
year 2017, an impressive achievement during a very challenging industry environment.

4

OOCL  extended  its  Mediterranean 
ser vice  network  to  the  Middle 
E ast  and  Indian  Sub continent 
by  int ro ducing  a  ne w  Midd le 
E a s t / P a k i s t a n / I n d i a   –   We s t 
Mediterranean  Ser vice  (WM3) 
providing  direct  linkage  between 
the  Middle  East,  Pakistan,  India, 
Italy,  Spain,  France  and  Egypt  with 
more  competitive  and  reliable 
services than transshipment options 
and  the  fastest  transit  time  to  the 
West Mediterranean, particularly to 
the Italian market. Together with its strategic hubs in Khor Al Fakkan and Jebel Ali connecting its services to various networks 
in the region, OOCL can offer exceptional flexibility and more shipping options to their customers.

CargoSmart  launched  its  Customer  Innovation  Centre  to  help  shippers  leverage  the  latest  technologies  and  innovative 
solution  development  methods  to  drive  digital  transformation.  Experienced  engineers  specializing  in  areas  such  as  Artificial 
Intelligence  (AI),  Machine  Learning,  Internet  of  Things  (IoT),  and  Application  Program  Interfaces  (APIs)  are  committed  to 
helping shippers transform their businesses by exploring new opportunities in digitizing their shipment management process, 
developing effective and customized applications, as well as to test and refine the solutions.

On 12th March, Orient Overseas (International) Limited and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) announced a profit attributable to 
equity holders for 2017 of US$137.7 million, compared to a loss of US$219.2 million in 2016.

OOCL Logistics expanded its service network into Columbia by setting up a representative office in its capital and largest city, 
Bogota, to meet the needs of customers and in response to the growth of trade in South America.

APRIL

OOCL  announced  a  new  partnership  with  Microsoft  Research  Asia,  the 
world-class  research  arm  of  Microsoft,  in  providing  cutting-edge  Artificial 
Intelligence  (AI)  solutions  to  improve  network  operations  and  achieve 
efficiencies within the shipping industry. OOCL has always been a pioneer 
in  leveraging  technology  to  make  a  real  business  impact  and  accelerate 
customer value, in which AI is the key in our digital transformation vision.

4

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Significant Events – 2018

MAY  5   6

OOCL  was  honoured  with  the  “Hong  Kong  Awards  for  Environmental  Excellence” 
that recognizes outstanding green management, innovation and commitments towards 
best practices within our industry sector. In addition to this achievement, OOCL also 
became one of the first recipients of the new “Outstanding Green Leadership Award” 
for being one of the top ten performers among 1,600 eligible applicants in 15 industry 
sectors demonstrating excellent performance in the aspect of green leadership.

5

6

JUNE  7

OOCL  was  very  honoured  to  be  the  first  carrier 
in  the  international  transportation  and  logistics 
industry  to  receive  the  Gold  Award  at  the  2017 
BOCHK  Corporate  Environmental  Leadership 
Awards  ceremony.  This  distinguished  awards 
program  aims  to  acknowledge  outstanding 
participating  organisations  for  their  efforts  in 
promoting  environmental  and  low-carbon  best 
practices in the manufacturing and services sectors 
in  Hong  Kong  and  the  Pan  Pearl  River  Delta 
region.

Further  to  COSCO  and  SIPG’s  general  offer  to  all 
shareholders  of  OOIL  to  acquire  all  issued  OOIL 
shares  subject  to  a  set  of  “pre-conditions”  on  9th 
July,  2017,  OOIL  and  COSCO  jointly  announced 
on  29th  June,  2018  that  the  last  pre-condition, 
clearance  by  China’s  SAMR  (State  Administration 
for  Market  Regulation,  the  successor  agency 
to  MOFCOM  on  anti-trust  matters),  has  been 
fulfilled.

7

OOCL  received  the  “Outstanding 
Performance  in  Port  State  Control 
Inspection”  award  for  the  year 
2017  from  the  Hong  Kong  Marine 
Department  which  recognizes 
our  strong  performance  in  ship 
management  and  for  doing  our 
p a r t   i n   u p h o l d i n g   t h e   g o o d 
international standing of the Hong 
Kong  flag  in  the  shipping  and 
maritime community.

55

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Significant Events – 2018

OOCL  outperformed  all  ocean  carriers  and  achieved  the  highest  total  score  in  the  2018  Canadian  Shipper’s  Choice  Awards. 
With a total of 459 carriers being evaluated by over 300 shippers, OOCL received the highest total score in the eight categories 
being  evaluated,  including  on-time  performance,  information  technology,  customer  service  and  sustainable  transportation 
practices.

JULY  8

On  24th  July,  COSCO  Shipping  Holdings  Co.  Limited  completed  the  acquisition 
of  shares  from  controlling  shareholders  in  the  offer  to  acquire  Orient  Overseas 
(International) Limited, which marks the change of controlling shareholder to COSCO 
Shipping Holdings Co. Limited.

8

AUGUST  9   10   11   12   13   14

On  3rd  August,  Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  announced  the  formation  of  a  new  board  of  directors  and  chief 
executive officer positions. The board elected Mr. Xu Lirong as Chairman of OOIL and appointed Mr. Huang Xiaowen as the 
Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Wang Haimin was appointed as Co-Chief Executive Officer of OOCL while Mr. Andy Tung was 
re-designated as Co-Chief Executive Officer of OOCL.

9

10

11

12

On  6th  August,  Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  and  its  subsidiaries  (the “Group”)  announced  a  loss  attributable  to 
equity holders of US$10.3 million for the six-month period ended 30th June, 2018, compared to a profit of US$53.6 million for 
the same period in 2017.

On  13th  August,  CargoSmart  announced  its  initiative  to  form  a  Global  Shipping  Business  Network  (GSBN)  Industry 
Consortium. The Consortium will be governed by a wide member participation base, such as carriers and terminal operators, 
with the goal of leveraging the latest technologies in Blockchain, IoT and Artificial Intelligence to establish a digital baseline 
for the future of shipping, where all the stakeholders in the supply chain, including financial institutions and customs agencies, 
will  be  able  to  collaborate  more  efficiently  through  GSBN.  The  first  product  is  a  blockchain-based  solution  for  Dangerous 
Goods (DG) shipment documentation which streamlines the DG declaration and data validation process and thereby enabling 
all GSBN stakeholders the ability to provide innovative customer products or services.

6

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Significant Events – 2018

OOCL  Logistics  launched  an  enhanced  version  of  the  Supply  Chain  –  Insight, 
an  intelligence  tool  under  the  PODIUM®  product  line  that  offers  near  real-time 
monitoring  of  supply  chain  performance,  shipment  process  and  KPI  across  various 
dimensions.  With  newly  developed  reports  on  additional  indicators  and  enhanced 
functionalities, the upgraded Supply Chain – Insight will help customers make better 
supply chain decisions.

13

In  our  commitment  to  the  environment  and  transparency,  OOCL  announced  that  its  Green  House  Gas  (GHG)  Scope  3 
reporting and verification had successfully been expanded to include indirect emissions from not only business travel by air for 
employees of the Hong Kong office, but also from our two terminals, namely the Long Beach Container Terminal in the United 
States, and the Kaohsiung Container Terminal in Taiwan.

O O C L   p r o u d l y   r e c e i v e d   t h e   2 0 1 8 
Singapore  Environmental  Achievement 
Award  (Regional)  at  a  ceremony  held  by 
the  Singapore  Environment  Council’s 
(SEC)  Conference  Day  event  on  30th 
August.  The  SEAA  (Regional)  Award 
category  recognizes  local  or  international 
c o mp a n i e s   a n d   o r g a n i s at i o n s   w i t h 
outstanding environmental performance in 
Asia.

14

SEPTEMBER  15

15

OOCL  introduced  new  Asia–East  Africa  products,  namely  the 
Asia–East  Africa  Service  1  (EAX1),  Asia–East  Africa  Service  2 
(EAX2), Asia–East Africa Service 3 (EAX3) and Asia–East Africa 
Service  4  (EAX4)  with  direct  calls  to  strategic  ports  to  expand 
our  business  network  in  the  East  African  market  while  meeting 
the growing demand for quality services in the region.

77

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Significant Events – 2018

OCTOBER  16   17   18

16

To expand our business network in the Latin 
America  market  and  to  meet  the  growing 
demand  for  quality  services  in  this  region, 
OOCL  introduced  new  Asia–Latin  America 
products,  namely  the  Transpacific  Latin 
Pacific  1  (TLP1)  and  Transpacific  Latin 
Pacific 2 (TLP2) from October.

In the continual expansion of our business network 
in  the  African  market,  OOCL  introduced  new 
West Africa direct services, namely the West Africa 
Service  1  (WAF1),  West  Africa  Service  3  (WAF3) 
and  Mediterranean  –  West  Africa  (MAF).  These 
new  products  provide  customers  with  competitive 
and reliable services between West Africa and Asia 
and the West Mediterranean.

18

On 29th October, OOCL was presented with 11 Automated Mutual-Assistance Vessel Rescue 
System (AMVER) Awards for the year 2017 at the annual Hong Kong Shipowners Association 
Luncheon.  Sponsored  by  the  United  States  Coast  Guard  (USCG),  AMVER  is  a  worldwide 
voluntary  program  that  facilitates  the  rapid  engagement  of  merchant  ships  in  rescue 
operations at sea.

17

8

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Significant Events – 2018

NOVEMBER  19   20

19

On  6t h  Novemb er,  nine  le ading  o ce an  c ar r iers 
and  terminal  operators  signed  a  Memorandum  of 
Understanding  at  the  China  International  Import  Expo 
2018  in  Shanghai  to  form  a  consortium  to  develop  the 
Global  Shipping  Business  Network  (GSBN),  an  open 
digital  platform  based  on  distributed  ledger  technology. 
The  participants  include  ocean  carriers  CMA  CGM, 
COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines,  Evergreen  Marine,  OOCL, 
and Yang Ming; terminal operators DP World, Hutchison 
Ports,  PSA  International  Pte  Ltd,  and  Shanghai 
International  Port;  and  software  solutions  provider 
CargoSmart.  The  new  platform  will  establish  a  digital 
baseline  that  aims  to  connect  all  stakeholders  to  enable 
collaborative innovation and digital transformation in the 
supply chain.

OOCL announced new South Africa direct services, namely the 
South  Africa  Service  1  (SAF1),  South  Africa  Service  2  (SAF2), 
South  Africa  Service  3  (SAF3)  to  further  expand  our  African 
service  network  to  South  Africa  with  direct  calls  to  strategic 
ports including Durban, Cape Town and Port Elizabeth.

On  22nd  November,  OOCL  Australia was  presented  with  the 
Shipping  Line  –  North  East  Asia  Trade  Award  and  the  Liner 
Customer Service Award at the Australian Shipping & Maritime 
Industry Awards 2018 hosted by the Daily Cargo News.

20

DECEMBER  21   22   23

On  4th  December,  OOCL  was  presented  with  two 
“Best  Container  Liner  Award  2018”  by  the  Thai 
National  Shippers’  Council  (TNSC)  to  recognize  our 
outstanding  performance  in  the  “North  America” 
and  “Far  East  Asia  and  ASEAN”  service  routes.  This 
annual  awards  program  is  given  to  container  liners 
that  are  evaluated  by  Thai  exporters  on  18  criteria, 
including vessel schedule frequency, on-time delivery, 
and equipment availability.

21

22

OOCL  received  resounding  applause  from  industry  peers  for  the  coveted 
Company  of  the  Year  win  at  the  Lloyd’s  List  Global  Awards  ceremony  in 
London  on  11th  December.  This  top  honour  in  the  awards  program  pays 
tribute  to  an  organisation  with  marked  achievements  in  areas  such  as 
operational  excellence,  digital  innovation  and  for  maintaining  an  outstanding 
reputation in the industry.

23

99

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Chairman’s Statement

Chairman’s Statement

I would like to express my sincere 
gratitude to all our shareholders and 
customers around the world for their 
continuous attention and support 
to OOIL. Meanwhile, I would also 
like to thank our entire staff, both 
onshore and offshore, for their 
diligence and steadfastness in helping 
OOIL achieve such good results in 
2018, especially in the second half of 
the year.

Captain Xu Lirong
Chairman

10

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Chairman’s Statement

Dear shareholders,

First  of  all,  on  behalf  of  the  Board  and  the  management  of 
Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (“OOIL”),  I  would 
like to express my sincere gratitude to all our shareholders and 
customers around the world for their continuous attention and 
support  to  OOIL.  Meanwhile,  I  would  also  like  to  thank  our 
entire  staff,  both  onshore  and  offshore,  for  their  diligence  and 
steadfastness  in  helping  OOIL  achieve  such  good  results  in 
2018, especially in the second half of the year.

I  would  also  like,  once  again,  to  welcome  all  employees  and 
other  stakeholders  of  the  OOIL  group  to  COSCO  SHIPPING 
Group.  I  thank  you  for  your  efforts  and  co-operation  in 
taking our first steps together, and I look forward to building, 
together with you, a strong future for OOIL at the core business 
development of COSCO SHIPPING Group.

JOINING COSCO SHIPPING GROUP IS A 
MOMENTOUS STEP FORWARD
2018 was a landmark year in the development of OOIL. In July, 
COSCO SHIPPING Holdings successfully acquired OOIL, with 
the new combined group stepping up in terms of total capacity 
and joining the top three in the industry. As at the end of 2018, 
the combined group operated a fleet comprising 477 container 
vessels  with  total  shipping  capacity  of  2.76  million  TEUs,  and 
had an order book of nearly 180,000 TEUs.

The  acquisition  effectively  integrated  the  global  network 
advantage  of  OOCL  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines  under 
COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings,  beneficial  to  fully  achieving 
the  synergies  between  the  two  sides,  enriching  the  product 
selection  for  customers  and  allowing  customers  to  enjoy  a 
better service experience.

PRAGMATISM AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP 
TO IMPROVE EFFICIENCY AND ACHIEVE 
PROFITABILITY

Looking  back  to  2018,  the  global  economy  continued  to 

recover, but growth momentum slowed down. Several negative 

economic factors, such as the concentration of vessel deliveries 

in the first half of the year, the significant rise of the oil price, 

and  escalating  trade  frictions,  resulted  in  a  decrease  in  the 

overall financial performance of the container liner industry as 

compared to 2017, especially in the first half of the year.

During  the  Reporting  Period,  enjoying  the  benefit  of  being 

part  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Group,  we  took  a  pragmatic  and 

entrepreneurial  approach  to  overcoming  the  effects  of  these 

adverse  market  factors  and  focused  carefully  on  our  targeted 

strategies in our various markets.

I  am  pleased  to  report  that  OOIL  recorded  a  net  profit 

attributable  to  shareholders  for  2018  of  US$108.2  million, 

(2017: US$137.7 million).

During  the  second  half  of  the  year,  OOIL  showed  remarkable 

improvement  in  the  operation  efficiency,  the  synergy  effect 

after the acquisition is initially revealed.

On this basis, it is proposed that a final dividend of US7.7 cents 

(HK$0.601) per share be paid for 2018 (2017: Nil).

OOIL  has  an  outstanding  management  team,  a  brand  trusted 
by  customers,  and  efficient  management  systems.  In  order  to 
develop  these  valuable  intangible  assets  in  the  best  possible 
way,  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  formulated  a  “dual-brand” 
strategy,  which  will  facilitate  synergistic  development  of  the 
“dual-brand” container shipping business.

OOCL  managed  to  achieve  good  levels  of  growth,  especially 

in  the  main  East  West  tradelanes,  outperforming  market 

growth  levels  while  managing  to  avoid  a  detrimental  effect 

on  profitability.  Overall  volume  growth  in  2018  was  6.3%, 

compared to 3.6% in 2017.

OOCL  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines  cooperated  closely 
with  each  other  to  explore  and  gradually  to  achieve  synergies 
in  a  number  of  areas,  including  fleet  and  network  planning, 
procurement,  container  management,  IT,  commercial  co-
ordination  and  marine  operations.  In  the  second  half  of  2018, 
both  companies  recorded  good  operating  results.  The  “dual-
brand”  strategy  also  provides  a  bigger  and  stronger  platform 
for OOCL to further enhance its competitive advantages.

OOCL  continues  to  have  a  strong  focus  on  Intra-Asian  trades 

as  well as playing  a leading role in other  global  trades such as 

the Trans-Pacific. We continue to develop market opportunities 

in  Intra-Asia,  Intra-Europe  and  other  regional  trades,  and  are 

working  closely  with  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines  to  participate 

fully and effectively in the Belt and Road Initiative.

1111

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Chairman’s Statement

PROMOTING THE DIGITALISATION TO 
ENHANCE SERVICE STANDARDS AND 
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE

In  November  2018,  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines,  OOCL  and 
several  other  world  leading  ocean  carriers  and  terminal 
operators  signed  a  letter  of  intent  for  the  establishment  of 
the  Global  Shipping  Business  Network  (GSBN),  an  open 
digital  platform  in  the  shipping  industry  based  on  blockchain 
technology,  with  the  aim  to  jointly  promote  the  establishment 
and  information  sharing  of  digital  standards  and  improve  the 
operational  efficiency  and  the  quality  of  customer  service  of 
the industry. The software solutions of the shipping blockchain 
consortium  which  is  the  core  technology  application  will  be 
developed and provided by CargoSmart, a subsidiary of OOIL.

EXPANDING OUR LOGISTICS ACTIVITIES

Through  OOCL  Logistics,  the  Group  continues  to  expand  its 
reach  into  the  full  breadth  of  the  supply  chain.  This  growing 
part  of  the  OOIL  group  provides  new  business  opportunities 
and  diversification,  as  well  as  consistent  profitability  through 
excellence  in  customer  service,  as  well  as  reliability  and 
advanced technological solutions.

Our  logistics  business  is  not  limited  to  marine  transportation, 
and provides access to air and the growing rail freight markets 
as  well  as  to  seaborne  activities.  It  also  manages  warehousing 
and other land-based supply chain activities.

We  continue  to  grow  OOCL  Logistics  both  in  our  home 
markets  and  in  a  number  of  selected  areas,  including  the  fast-
moving economies of South East Asia.

IMPORTANCE OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND 
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

As  des cr ib ed  els e w here  in  t his  rep or t,  we  t ake  our 
responsibilities  as  part  of  society  very  seriously.  We  continue 
to  commit  to  identifying  and  implementing  ways  to  increase 
efficiency  and  reduce  consumption  in  terms  of  fuel,  and 
continue to study in great depth the implications of the IMO’s 
2020 regulations extremely carefully. OOCL has a long history 
of  winning  environmental  awards,  and  we  look  forward  not 
only  to  continuing  to  respect  all  applicable  regulations,  but  to 
continuing to be ahead of the curve in managing the impact of 
shipping.

We are proud to encourage our staff to participate in charitable 
activities  in  their  local  communities,  and  we  attach  high 
priority  to  our  responsibilities  as  an  employer  and  participant 
in the life of the areas in which we work.

OUTLOOK FOR 2019

Looking  forward  to  2019,  I  am  cautiously  optimistic  about 

the  global  economy  and  the  shipping  environment  as  both 

challenges  and  opportunities  are  lying  ahead.  Challenges 

include  1)  a  slowdown  in  the  global  economy,  as  reflected  by 

the adjustment of the global economic growth forecast for 2019 

from  3.7%  downwards  to  3.5%  by  the  International  Monetary 

Fund  (IMF)  in  January;  2)  the  many  uncertainties  that  may 

negatively  affect  shipping,  including  trade  frictions,  high  oil 
price,  and  etc.;  3)  the  industry’s  supply-demand  imbalance, 
especially  the  overcapacity  in  some  markets.  The  favourable 

conditions  and  positive  factors  include  1)  the  growth  drivers 

of  China  economy  remain  stable  and  strong;  2)  a  more  open 

China  provides  new  driving  forces  for  the  development  of 

the  global  free  trade;  3)  the  Belt  and  Road  Initiative  creates 

significant  opportunities  for  the  development  of  the  world 

economy, and with the construction of the Belt and Road being 

further  deepened  worldwide,  emerging  markets  represented 

by  Southeast  Asia,  Middle  East,  Central  and  South  America 

and  West  Africa  could  be  further  developed,  thereby  driving 

the  global  economic  growth;  and  4)  the  capacity  growth  of 

container shipping tends to slow down, thus may help alleviate 

the pressure on supply side.

At  the  time  of  writing,  we  are  of  the  opinion  that  the 

development  of  shipping  industr y  has  the  following 

characteristics.  Firstly,  the  macro  economy  has  been  changing 
while  the  “trade  position”  of  the  shipping  industry  remains 
unchanged;  secondly,  the  factor  market  of  the  industry  has 
been  changing  while  the  “service  essence”  of  the  shipping 
industry remains unchanged; thirdly, the competitive landscape 
of  enterprises  has  been  changing  while  the  “value  concept”  of 
the shipping industry remains unchanged. The way to adapt to 

various kinds of changes is to grasp their essence. The shipping 

industry  can  adapt  to  market  changes  and  achieve  sustainable 

development  only  by  adhering  to  the  principle  of  customer 

orientation,  persisting  on  the  service  essence  and  sticking  to 

the philosophy of mutual benefits and win-win.

On the implementation of the dual-brand strategy, OOCL aim 

for  achieving  further  synergy  benefits  and  improving  service 

quality.  In  order  to  bring  greater  synergistic  benefit  for  the 

combined  group,  we  will  focus  on  accelerating  the  integration 

of  equipment  management,  procurement,  IT  systems  and 

network planning.

12

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018On  the  implementation  of  the  digitalisation  strategy,  the 
Company  will  use  digital  technology  not  only  to  meet  but 
also guide and create customer demand, bring new experience 
to  customers  and  create  value  for  customers.  The  Company 
will  actively  establish  digital  operation  support  systems  and 
innovate  business  model  and  service  products  through  a 
combined  application  of  new  technologies  such  as  big  data, 
AI,  E-commerce  platform  and  blockchain,  so  as  to  constantly 
improve the operational efficiency and service quality of supply 
chain.

On  the  implementation  of  the  end-to-end  strategy,  the 
Company  will  design  and  launch  more  end-to-end  services 
and products, accelerate the development of extended services 
and  endeavour  to  enhance  the  capacity  in  the  one-stop 
transportation  services.  In  respect  of  railway  transportation, 
the  Company  will  include  more  countries  in  Central  and 
Eastern  Europe  into  the  service  scope  of  the  China-European 
Sea-rail  Express,  focus  on  integrated  logistics  solutions, 
develop  more  end-to-end  customers  and  complement  the 
advantages  of  OOCL  Logistics,  accomplish  the  design, 
construction  and  management  of  end-to-end  service  channels 
and solve the “last mile” problem.

“All  rivers  eventually  flow  into  the  sea  in  despite  of  different 
sources.”  In  the  new  year,  OOIL  as  an  integral  part  of  the 
container  shipping  business  of  China  COSCO  SHIPPING 
Group, will, together with parties from various fields, continue 
to  work  proactively  and  diligently,  constantly  improving 
development  quality,  offering  customers  ever-improving 
services, and creating greater value for our shareholders.

Captain Xu Lirong
Chairman

Hong Kong, 22nd March 2019

Chairman’s Statement

1313

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Operations Review

Operations Review

Just as was the case in 2017, 2018 was 
a year of strong growth for OOCL, 
especially in the Asia-Europe and 
Trans-Pacific trades.

14

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Operations Review

CONTAINER TRANSPORT
The  company  faced  conditions  during  2018  that  started  by 
being slightly worse than expected, but that by the second half 
of the year were considerably better than expected.

The  first  real  signs  that  2018  might  not  be  quite  as  easily 
predictable  occurred  after  the  usual  pre-Chinese  New  Year 
rush.

The long post-holiday lull and the increase in market capacity 
since  late  2017,  together  with  freight  rates  that  had  not  risen 
massively  year  on  year,  meant  that  OOIL  and  indeed  most 
of  the  industry,  facing  a  bunker  price  that  was  much  higher 
in  the  first  half  of  2018  than  it  had  been  one  year  previously, 
produced an interim financial result that was relatively flat.

Thereafter,  as  we  approached  the  end  of  the  first  half,  the 
strength  of  the  US  economy  was  becoming  increasingly  clear. 
This translated into better volumes on the Trans-Pacific trade.

Part  of  that  increase  could  well  have  been  generated  by  some 
level  of  front  loading  of  orders  by  US  importers,  aiming 
to  import  goods  early  in  order  to  avoid  the  cost  of  tariffs 
potentially being implemented at a later date.

While there has been some level of increase, although nothing 
extraordinary, in US inventory levels in recent periods, it seems 
to  be  that  the  strength  of  US  consumer  sentiment,  thus  far  at 
least,  has  avoided  the  worst  of  the  threat  that  high  inventory 
levels  could  generate  for  our  prospects  in  the  Trans-Pacific 
trade in 2019.

At the time of writing, there seem to be signs that the US and 
China  will  reach  some  form  of  new  accord  in  terms  of  trade 
between  these  two  countries.  If  so,  then  this  would  certainly 
mitigate  a  risk  factor  for  2019.  However,  as  noted  in  previous 
reports,  trade  barriers  of  whatever  nature  are  at  best  a  cap  on 
growth  for  container  shipping,  but  if  the  US  economy  were  to 
see a downturn, then the combination of that with new tariffs 
could potentially have a much more tangible negative effect.

Courtesy of the Panama Canal Authority

1515

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Operations Review

Costs  remain  under  control.  Indeed,  during  the  last  months 
of  2018,  following  our  integration  within  the  COSCO  group, 
we  began  to  see  the  first  fruits  of  cost  savings  arising  from 
the various synergy projects under way. By means of close co-
operation,  through  the  synergy  benefits  of  network  planning, 
equipment  management,  IT  and  joint  procurement,  OOCL, 
along  with  COSCO,  will  generate  considerable  recurring 
efficiencies,  which  will  enhance  our  ability  to  serve  all  of  our 
stakeholders,  whether  customers,  shareholders,  creditors  or 
employees.

Bunker  prices,  although  higher  in  the  first  half  of  2018  than 
in recent years, began to fall significantly in the last quarter of 
the  year.  This  provided  some  degree  of  support,  but  did  not 
have  a  particularly  marked  effect  on  the  financial  results,  for 
the  reason  that  there  is  typically  a  one-to-two-month  delay 
between the date of bunkering and the reporting month when 
that bunkering cost hits the profit and loss account.

For  many  years  now,  we  have  commented  on  the  benefits  of 
alliance membership. Our situation within the Ocean Alliance 
continues to provide us significant advantage, and ensures that 
we  are  able  to  offer  a  broad,  high-quality  service  network  to 
our customers.

OOCL Liner
1Q18 v 1Q17
2Q18 v 2Q17
3Q18 v 3Q17
4Q18 v 4Q17
Total

16

As we approach the end of the second year of operation of the 
Ocean  Alliance,  we  can  clearly  feel  the  benefits  that  alliance 
membership  brings  in  terms  of  network  planning,  network 
scope, vessel utilisation and the management of business risk. 
With plans for the third year of the alliance’s operation already 
well advanced, we look forward to further benefit.

However,  now  being  part  of  the  COSCO  group,  we  have 
access to scale, and to a scale of network, that gives us a very 
significant  additional  means  of  achieving  successful  growth. 
We  also  benefit  by  having  much  wider  coverage  of  different 
trade  lanes  and  geographies,  not  least  through  access  to 
capacity  on  India  to  Europe  routes,  but  also  into  the  Latin 
American and African markets.

Just as was the case in 2017, 2018 was a year of strong growth 
for  OOCL,  especially  in  the  Asia-Europe  and  Trans-Pacific 
trades.  For  the  full  year  2018,  OOCL’s  liftings  were  up  6.3% 
overall,  but  8.9%  on  Trans-Pacific  and  14.5%  on  Asia-Europe. 
For the second year in a row, this growth outpaced the volume 
growth seen in the market as a whole.

2018  saw  a  strong  performance  from  our  terminal  in  Long 
Beach,  California.  The  second  phase  of  the  terminal  has 
now  been  operational  for  a  year,  and  all  those  carefully 
planned  designs  using  the  latest  technology  and  the  most 
environmentally  friendly  techniques  have  been  proven  to  bear 
fruit.  It  is  public  knowledge  that  we  are  required  to  sell  our 
interest in the Long Beach terminal, and we expect to be able to 
do this within the coming months.

TEU
7.5%
4.6%
6.9%
6.4%
6.3%

Growth in 2018
Revenue
16.3%
4.0%
7.0%
13.5%
9.9%

Revenue/TEU
8.3%
(0.6%)
0.1%
6.7%
3.4%

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operations Review

Trade

Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia/Australasia

Total

LIFTING (’000 TEU)

REVENUE (US$ million)

2018

1,974
1,302
426
2,995

6,697

2017

1,812
1,138
430
2,919

6,299

Variance

8.9%
14.5%
(0.9%)
2.6%

6.3%

2018

2,437
1,187
514
1,825

5,963

2017

2,067
1,102
495
1,761

5,425

Variance

17.9%
7.7%
3.9%
3.7%

9.9%

Asia-Europe  –  The  overall  economic  performance  of  the 
European  economies  was  less  solid  that  of  the  US,  especially 
in  the  second  half  of  the  year.  The  Asia-Europe  trade  as  a 
whole  simply  did  not  see  the  strong  growth  that  was  seen  on 
the  Trans-Pacific  trades,  even  if  OOCL  did  indeed  manage  to 
achieve very impressive volume growth in both trade lanes.

With few exceptions, growth in the major European economies 
was  negative  or  at  best  limited.  Among  the  better  performers 
were Germany and the UK, but even there, growth was in very 
low single digits.

As a result of these market pressures, freight rates experienced 
some  degree  of  downward  pressure  as  the  year  went  on,  with 
cargo volume growth not being sufficient to offset a significant 
introduction of new supply deployed on the Asia-Europe trade. 
Nevertheless,  liftings  increased  14.5%  compared  to  the  same 
period  last  year,  the  highest  growth  rate  in  any  of  our  trades. 
Revenue  increased  by  7.7%,  being  negatively  impacted  by  a 
5.9% decrease in revenue per TEU.

Our  own  growth  against  a  difficult  market  backdrop  was 
driven  both  by  strong  commercial  performance  but  also  by 
means  of  Ocean  Alliance  membership,  and  growth  of  our 
fleet.  Our  capacity,  and  indeed  our  unit  cost  efficiency,  were 
enhanced  by  the  benefit  of  essentially  a  full  year  of  operation 
of our six 21,413 TEU vessels, delivered between May 2017 and 
January 2018.

1717

Trans-Pacific – This trade was marked by an unusually strong 
second  half  of  the  year,  for  the  reasons  described  above.  Not 
only  was  the  traditional  July-September  Peak  Season  stronger 
than had been seen for several years, but the post-Peak Season 
slowdown  failed  to  materialise.  Load  factors  remained  strong 
throughout  the  second  half  of  the  year,  and  even  although 
freight  rates  did  fall,  they  fell  only  to  a  level  that  exceeded 
the  best  rates  seen  in  2017.  The  progress  in  terms  of  year-on-
year  comparison  is  clear,  but  it  should  not  be  forgotten  that 
the  levels  seen  in  2018  are  not  by  any  means  record  breaking 
compared to previous years.

Although  there  appears  to  be  continuing  strength  in  the  US 
economy,  it  is  right  to  be  cautious  about  our  prospects  in  the 
Transpacific  trade  in  2019.  At  the  time  of  writing,  we  simply 
do  not  know  the  degree  to  which  US  imports  might  suffer  a 
post-Chinese New Year slowdown in 2019, nor can we be sure 
about  how  the  higher  volumes  seen  at  the  end  of  2018  will 
affect  volumes  in  the  coming  months.  Risk  factors  such  as 
discussed above, noticeably resolution of the “Trade War” and 
the  sustainability  of  the  current  strong  performance  of  the  US 
economy create ongoing uncertainty in 2019.

OOCL’s  market  share  of  Trans-Pacific  cargo  is  now  6.7%,  the 
highest it has ever been, following another year of solid growth 
for our Trans-Pacific trade. We anticipate that 2019 could be a 
year of further growth, albeit likely at a more modest rate than 
in  recent  years  for  OOCL  on  this  tradelane,  but  market  risk 
factors bring considerable uncertainty to this view.

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operations Review

MAJOR CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS
Approximately  8.2%  and  20.7%  of  the  Group’s  total 
expenditure  on  purchases  of  goods  and  services  for  the  year 
are attributable to the largest supplier and five largest suppliers 
respectively.

Approximately  1.4%  and  5.9%  of  the  Group’s  total  reported 
revenues  for  the  year  are  attributable  to  the  largest  customer 
and five largest customers respectively.

The  Group  has  entered  into  slot  sharing  arrangements 
with  other  container  shipping  companies.  The  receipts  and 
payments  from  slot  sharing  arrangements  have  not  been 
included  in  determining  the  major  customers  and  suppliers 
since  it  would  be  misleading  to  do  so  as  the  receipts  and 
payments  are  in  respect  of  sharing  arrangements  for  the 
utilisation of vessel space.

No director or any of his associates holds any equity interest in 
the suppliers or customers included above.

Much  is  written  about  the  potential  effect  of  Brexit  on 
international  trade.  It  is  certainly  a  risk  factor,  and,  as  at  the 
time  of  writing,  much  uncertainty  remains.  However,  as  a 
global  container  shipping  company  engaged  in  trade  between 
countries with all manner of trading arrangements, we consider 
that we will have relatively little direct exposure to any negative 
impacts,  if  indeed  there  are  any  negative  impacts.  Our  Intra-
Europe business is relatively small as a proportion of our total 
business, and indeed carries relatively minor volumes between 
the EU and the UK.

Trans-Atlantic  –  Benefits  of  heightened  consumer  and 
corporate  spending  in  US  drove  increased  industry  volume 
growth of 4.4% across the trade.

However,  the  now  established  trend  of  increasing  imbalance 
between  the  eastbound  and  westbound  legs  of  this  trade 
continued,  reducing  overall  profitability.  The  strength  of  the 
US  economy  as  against  the  relative  lack  of  growth  in  Europe 
did nothing to bring a halt to this pattern.

Intra-Asia  and  Australasia  –  Improved  market  conditions 
in  the  Intra-Asia  trade  reflected  the  gradual  and  prolonged 
recovery  of  the  large  East/West  trades,  as  well  as  that  of  the 
larger North Asia economies. Speculation of a slowing Chinese 
economy has not been seen to impact industry volume growth.

A  resurgence  in  Australian  trades,  most  notably  in  the  first 
half,  drove  further  improvements  in  trade  volumes  and  a 
higher  average  freight  rates  in  2018.  The  Australian  economy, 
very much affected by commodity cycles, has seen a rebound in 
pricing for some of its major export minerals, translating to an 
improved  economic  environment.  Australia  continues  its  27-
year unbroken record of economic growth.

Routes to parts of the Middle East and the Indian subcontinent 
suffered  from  a  challenging  market  environment  during  the 
year.  It  is  thought  that  these  markets  will  continue  to  face 
difficulties  in  2019.  In  an  effort  to  respond  to  this,  we  have 
found  a  way  to  meet  market  levels  of  demand  in  a  more  cost-
effective  way,  by  conducting  a  detailed  tradelane  by  tradelane 
review  of  poorly  performing  routes  in  these  regions,  and  for 
the  Middle  East  by  introducing  the  largest  vessels  of  20,000 
TEU  in  order  to  benefit  from  the  greater  cost  efficiency 
available through upsizing.

18

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018MARINE TERMINALS
During  2018,  OOCL  operated  two  container  terminals: 
the  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  in  California  and  the 
Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in  Taiwan,  with  a  total 
combined  throughput  of  2.8  million  TEU,  representing  a 
year  over  year  increase  of  about  4%.  Tianjin  Port  Alliance 
International  Container  Terminal  Co.,  Ltd.  and  Ningbo 
Yuandong  Terminal  Ltd.,  where  OOCL  has  a  20%  interest  in 
each,  together  handled  about  4.8  million  TEU,  a  5%  decrease 
over 2017.

Middle Harbor Redevelopment Project

OOCL and its subsidiary LBCT continue to work with the Port 
of  Long  Beach  (POLB)  on  the  Middle  Harbor  Redevelopment 
Project (MHRP) in Long Beach, California. The project is to be 
developed in three phases. Phase I went live in April 2016 and 
Phase II October of 2017. Both phases are fully automated and 
have been operating successfully serving two full Trans-Pacific 
services. Through continuous improvement, LBCT has become 
one  of  the  most  operationally  efficient  and  environmentally 
friendly port terminals anywhere in the world.

Under  an  agreement  with  the  US  Government  as  a  result  of 
COSCO  Shipping  Holding’s  acquisition  of  OOIL,  LBCT  was 
put  into  a  US  Government  appointed  Trust  in  July  2018  for 
divestiture.

SHIP OPERATIONS
As at 31st December, 2018, the OOCL fleet composition was as 
follows:

Fleet

Owned/ 

Long Term Chartered/
Operating Lease
Short Term Chartered

Operating Capacity

No. of Vessels

TEU Capacity

68
33

101

585,035
116,428

701,463

Operations Review

During the year, the Group took delivery of the sixth (and the 
last) of a total of six “Giga” Class 21,413 TEU vessels from the 
Samsung  Heavy  Industries  Shipyard  in  South  Korea,  namely 
the OOCL Indonesia.  All  six  “Giga”  Class  vessels  had  been 
deployed into service on the Asia-Europe Trade and they broke 
the  world  record  as  the  largest  containerships  by  carrying 
capacity, marking an important milestone for the Group.

No order for new buildings were placed during the year.

As  of  the  end  of  2018,  OOCL  owned  vessels  with  an  average 
age of 8.77 years and an average size of 8,915 TEU.

Bunker Cost/Saving

Bunker  prices  were  quite  volatile  during  2018,  with  an 
upward trajectory in the first half of the year and then moving 
downwards since September followed by a sharp drop in price. 
We  continued  to  place  intense  focus  on  bunker  and  engine 
lubricant  oil  saving  programs  for  cost  savings  during  the  year. 
Other fuel saving programs include, but not limited to: optimal 
routing,  continuous  speed  optimisation,  efficient  use  of  shaft 
generator, maintaining optimal trim, and using minimal ballast 
water for fuel efficiency.

In  regards  to  the  new  low  sulphur  fuel  regulation  effective  on 
1st January, 2020, we anticipate higher bunker costs may begin 
to  impact  across  the  industry  from  the  second  half  of  2019. 
Under  this  regulation,  0.5%  low  sulphur  fuel  oil  or  cleaner 
alternatives  are  required  to  be  used  by  all  ocean-going  vessels 
and in order to meet the deadline, many vessels are expected to 
make  the  transition  by  the  end  of  the  year.  In  preparation  for 
this change, we have placed emphasis on introducing a fuel cost 
surcharge  to  our  longer  term  commercial  contracts,  in  order 
to help recover the increase in expense. The degree of recovery 
possible  will  be  affected  by  the  strength  of  the  freight  market 
during contract negotiations. Separately, we are also reviewing 
implementing  scrubber  technology  as  a  means  of  allow  our 
ships to continue to burn lower cost high sulphur fuel.

In  this  higher  fuel  cost  environment,  teamwork,  and  close 
collaboration  by  all  concerned  parties  both  on  and  off-shore 
will continue to be key to our success.

1919

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018LOGISTICS
In  2018,  OOCL  Logistics’  revenue,  gross  profit  and  net  profit 
before tax increased by 8.8%, 6.9% and 17.5% respectively.

For  our  International  Supply  Chain  Management  services, 
existing  customers  were  instrumental  to  our  revenue  and 
contribution  growth  in  2018.  We  spent  much  effort  helping 
clients  enhance  their  supply  chain  visibility  and  efficiency, 
optimize  operation  network,  and  reduce  supply  chain  cost 
by  using  our  innovative  solutions  and  systems  such  as 
the  powerful  features  from  our  Podium  platform  and  the 
Intelligent  Report  System.  Our  dedication  to  quality  and 
providing  best-in-class  services  and  reliable  products  further 
strengthened  the  quality  mark  in  our  brand  and  thus  the 
customer’s confidence in OOCL Logistics.

There has been marked performance improvements in our sea-
freight  NVOCC  (Non-Vessel  Operating  Common  Carrier) 
business  in  2018,  particularly  from  the  increase  of  freight 
rates  as  well  as  business  growth  in  Russia,  North  Europe, 
Southeast Asia and the US regions. High growth on air-freight 
forwarding  business  also  continued  in  2018.  The  business  of 
Customs House Brokerage grew drastically in 2018.

Operations Review

Environmental Protection

We remain very supportive of international efforts to measure 
and  control  shipboard  emissions.  In  2018,  we  maintained  an 
average  sulphur  content  of  2.63%  in  our  bunker  consumption 
which  compares  favourably  with  the  International  Maritime 
Organization’s  (IMO)  prescribed  standard  of  3.5%.  Aside 
from  the  installation  of  Alternative  Maritime  Power  (AMP) 
system  that  allows  shore-based  power  alternatives,  our  new 
buildings  have  been  equipped  with  Ballast  Water  Treatment 
systems  to  effectively  treat  ballast  water,  which  is  in  line  with 
our environmental policy. A retrofit program is also underway 
to allow some of our existing vessels to improve fuel efficiency 
which ultimately helps to reduce emissions.

In  addition  to  regulator y  compliance,  we  have  been 
participating  in  various  voluntary  programs  including  the 
Green  Flag  Program  at  the  Port  of  Long  Beach,  Vessel  Speed 
Reduction Program at the Port of Los Angeles, as well as AMP 
Shore  Power  systems  at  various  ports  in  US  West  Coast  and 
China including the Shenzhen Port Green Convention initiated 
by  the  Shenzhen  Transportation  Commission  (SZMOT)  in 
China.

20

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Operations Review

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
The Global IT standardization and centralization management 
synergy  areas  between  OOCL  and  COSCO  Shipping  Lines, 
covering  areas  such  as  data  centers,  global  infrastructure,  and 
cyber security, delivers a single IT standard for both companies 
to achieve higher availability and security platform to enhance 
business  operations.  The  unified  IT  operation  analytics  layer 
will raise the level of IT automation and early discovery of any 
potential  issues  that  needs  to  be  addressed.  By  leveraging  on 
Microsoft  technologies,  an  enhanced  collaboration  platform 
has  been  developed  to  enable  closer  communication  and 
collaboration among both companies and thereby improve our 
business  agility  and  productivity  levels.  An  integrated  hosting 
service  will  also  be  developed  to  support  both  company’s 
enterprise applications and IT operation.

To help realize the synergy from managing a pooled container 
inventory  between  OOCL  and  COSCO  Shipping  Lines, 
an  Equipment  Pool  System  was  launched  to  strengthen 
the  visibility  of  both  companies’  inventory  and  imbalance 
situations  which  greatly  helped  improve  the  efficiency  of 
empty  container  repositioning  and  identified  a  number  of 
other  related  collaborative  opportunities.  This  system  not 
only  improved  our  equipment  management  cost  efficiency, 
but  also  enhanced  the  overall  inventory  management  of  the 
container  pool  by  lowering  the  buffer  stock  level  and  helping 
us  maintain  a  leaner  equipment  fleet.  Moreover,  a  Network 
Control Center was successfully completed to provide COSCO 
Shipping  Lines  with  greater  visibility  of  vessel  network 
disruptions and recovery options. The strengthened disruption 
management  capability  also  lays  the  foundation  for  the  fleet 
of both companies to improve on overall vessel utilization and 
disruption management.

2121

In our Domestic Logistics business, the effective utilization and 
improvements of our long-term leased warehouses throughout 
China,  Indonesia  and  the  Philippines  helped  enhance  the 
profitability  of  our  Warehouse  and  Distribution  segment.  Our 
cold  chain  logistics  activity  in  China  also  grew,  particularly 
in  the  cold  chain  transportation  and  warehouse  business  that 
helped pushed our profit margin up.

By leveraging on our superior IT capabilities and management 
expertise,  our  Software-as-a-Service  has  made  very  good 
progress by providing our clients with Weika, TMS, WMS and 
Control  Tower  which  have  been  integrated  into  our  clients’ 
supply chain operations and management.

In  addition  to  our  various  business  development  projects,  we 
also  focused  on  improvements  to  our  overall  operations  by 
tackling  challenges  in  areas  such  as  operational  productivity, 
cost control, asset efficiency, and raising our quality services to 
new levels in order to enhance our competitive position in the 
industry.

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018CargoSmart’s Customer Innovation Center (CIC) was officially 
launched in San Jose in early 2018 to improve our engagement 
with shippers through workshops where we can better identify 
their  needs  and  challenges.  By  leveraging  lean  and  agile 
methods  and  applying  a  design  thinking  approach,  we  are 
able  to  iteratively  create,  build  and  offer  more  comprehensive 
solutions to the market. To address the pain points of shippers 
and  forwarders  without  adequate  levels  of  transparency  and 
control  of  their  shipment  delivery  schedules,  CargoSmart 
launched a cloud-based, AI-powered platform called “ForeSea” 
in  September  2018  to  provide  the  cargo  visibility  with 
predictive  analytics  capabilities  they  need.  Shippers  and  their 
logistics  partners  would  be  able  to  share  a  common  platform 
to  visualize  the  progress  of  all  shipments,  proactively  manage 
any potential disruptions, and enhance the overall collaborative 
experience across stakeholders. The performance measurement 
information  also  provided  the  opportunity  for  optimized 
planning and supply chain improvements.

To  enhance  operational  efficiency  and  the  decision-making 
process  in  marine  operations,  the  Robo-advisor  solution  was 
introduced  in  May  2018  to  leverage  CargoSmart’s  GVVMC 
and  AI  enabled  technologies  to  provide  better  berth  visibility 
and  bunker  optimization.  The  advanced  visibility  of  the 
vessel’s berthing windows at the upcoming port  calls  not only 
improved  the  collaboration  between  marine  operators,  port 
agents  and  ship  masters  to  minimize  port  waiting  times,  but 
also  offered  vessels  the  opportunity  to  effectively  improve 
bunker efficiency at sea. The bunker optimization model allows 
for better control of bunker consumption with various schedule 
recovery strategies and to that end, different schedule recovery 
simulations  and  optimization  models  were  added  in  the  third 
and fourth quarters of 2018. From May to December 2018, and 
compared  to  the  same  period  in  the  year  before,  we  observed 
that the overall bunker consumption level reduced significantly 
while vessel sea time increased. Moving forward, more complex 
schedule recovery optimization models will be added to further 
improve the operational efficiency of marine operations.

Operations Review

CargoSmart

CargoSmart  initiated  the  launch  of  a  blockchain  shipping 
alliance named the Global Shipping Business Network (GSBN), 
which  aims  to  establish  a  digital  baseline  that  connects  all 
stakeholders  and  facilitate  collaborative  innovation  and  digital 
transformation  initiatives  in  the  supply  chain.  CargoSmart 
leverages  existing  shipping  domain  knowledge,  expertise  in 
developing  software  architecture  and  application  solutions 
with  blockchain  technologies  to  establish  the  foundation 
of  the  platform.  The  first  CargoSmart  application  to  pilot 
the  operation  of  the  GSBN  platform  is  Dangerous  Goods 
Application  (DG.ConnectDLT).  It  enables  forwarders  and 
shippers to digitize DG documents using Artificial Intelligence 
(AI)  techniques  and  automatically  connects  it  with  relevant 
parties  in  the  shipping  cycle  with  real-time  access.  The 
application  will  streamline  and  shorten  the  DG  approval 
process  and  will  bring  a  new  level  of  transparency  to  all 
relevant  parties.  The  application  is  in  Beta  Pilot  testing  in 
December 2018 and will be in General Release in early 2019.

22

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Operations Review

2323

One IT Model

To  create  further  synergy  in  the  IT  systems  development  for 

both  OOCL  and  COSCO  Shipping  Lines,  a  comprehensive 

review  was  conducted  and  the  One  IT  resources  deployment 

model  established  to  identify  the  most  suitable  architecture 

platform  and  technology  solution  for  implementation  where 

the  IT  resources  from  both  companies  will  be  allocated  to 

support  the  development,  delivery  and  implementation  of  the 

systems.

PROPERTY

Based on an independent valuation as at 31st December 2018, 

Wall  Street  Plaza  was  included  in  the  consolidated  balance 

sheet  at  US$310  million.  A  revaluation  of  US$40  million 

occurred  in  the  first  half  of  the  year,  and  was  reflected  in  the 

consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  for  that  period  and  in 

the  consolidated  balance  sheet  as  at  30th  June  2018.  After 

offsetting  a  total  of  US$0.5  million  of  capital  expenditure 

related  to  the  building  in  2018,  the  net  fair  value  gain  for  the 

full year comes to US$39.5 million.

As  at  31st  December  2017,  Wall  Street  Plaza  was  valued  at 

US$270 million with a net fair value gain of US$43.4 million in 

2017.

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Responsibility

Corporate Responsibility

The Group places the 
utmost importance on 
environmental care and 
community support. 
Despite the current difficult 
economic environment, we 
must continue to address 
the long-term threat of 
climate change.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2018

24

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Corporate Responsibility
Corporate Responsibility

The  Group  prides  itself  upon  being  a  responsible  corporate 
citizen and it employs the highest standards of business ethics 
in  all  that  it  does.  Headed  by  a  senior  management  Steering 
Committee  and  a  Global  Security,  Safety  and  Environment 
Care Officer, the Group embraces the core values of Corporate 
Social Responsibility at all levels.

The  Group  places  the  utmost  importance  on  environmental 
care  and  community  support.  Despite  the  current  difficult 
economic  environment,  we  must  continue  to  address  the 
long-term  threat  of  climate  change.  We  strive  to  play  our  part 
in  tackling  this  global  problem  through  engagement  with 
organisations  such  as  the  Business  Environment  Council, 
the  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  and  the  World  Wildlife 
Fund.  Throughout  the  year,  the  Group  has  won  awards  and 
accolades for its environmental performance, and OOIL Group 
employees  around  the  world  have  been  actively  supporting 
their  local  communities  through  various  environmental 
initiatives.

The  Group  is  dedicated  to  promoting  sustainable  business 
practices  in  the  supply  chain.  Our  Corporate  Sustainable 
Procurement  Policy  has  been  implemented  in  every  aspect 
of  our  business  and  at  every  stage  of  the  supply  chain. 
For  example,  under  our  vendor  and  supplier  selection 
mechanism,  a  self-assessment  of  the  potential  contractor 
must  be  completed  to  confirm  their  compliance  to  our  Safety, 
Security,  Environmental  and  Social  Guidelines,  where  on-
site verification of their facilities may  be conducted if deemed 
necessary.  Once  compliance  is  confirmed  we  would  review 
and  work  with  our  vendors  to  ensure  compliance  levels  are 
maintained.

In  addition,  the  OOCL  Carbon  Calculator  is  designed  to 
assist  OOCL  customers  measure  CO2  emissions  in  their 
supply  chains.  The  scope  of  the  calculator  spans  across 
vessels,  trucks,  feeders,  and  rail  with  over  70,000  port  pairs 
recorded.  OOCL  spearheaded  the  project  in  2010,  partnering 
with  the  Department  of  Logistics  and  Maritime  Studies  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Polytechnic  University.  The  Calculator  has  been 
checked and verified for its methodology, accuracy and carbon 
footprint  calculations  by  The  American  Bureau  of  Shipping 
(ABS) Consulting.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2018

2525

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Responsibility

OUR ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES
The  Group  recognises  that  businesses  must  take  responsibility 
for  their  industry’s  effects  on  the  environment.  Our  company 
is  dedicated  to  meeting  the  needs  of  the  present  without 
compromising  those  of  the  future.  We  encourage  sustainable 
economic  development  through  innovative  environmental 
care  measures  and  believe  that  by  taking  a  proactive  role  in 
caring  for  the  environment,  we  can  help  minimise  our  carbon 
footprint, improve air quality and make the world a better place 
to live for ourselves and future generations.

We actively participate in green programmes and have received 
recognition for our achievements and best practices, including:

The  Safety,  Quality  and  Environmental  (SQE)  Management 
System  Certificate  –  OOCL  was  the  first  container  shipping 
line  in  the  world  to  have  achieved  the  SQE  certification 
which  consolidates  the  ISM-Code,  ISO  9001  and  ISO  14001 
requirements.

Vessel  Speed  Reduction  Programs  –  Each  year,  OOCL  has 
been  fully  compliant  to  reducing  vessel  speed  when  entering 
within both 20 and 40 nautical miles of the Port of Long Beach 
and  Port  of  Los  Angeles  harbors.  Our  efforts  have  effectively 
contributed to improving the air quality by reducing emissions 
such  as  smog  forming  nitrogen  oxides  NOx,  diesel  particulate 
matter  and  greenhouse  gases.  Port  officials  estimate  that  if  all 
vessels comply with the Program, the amount of NOx produced 
by container ships would be reduced by nearly 550 tons a year.

Ballast  Water  Management  Program  –  All  container  ships 
discharge  ballast  water,  which  can  contain  organisms  that 
may  be  harmful  to  other  environments.  We  have  a  policy  of 
exchanging  ballast  water  only  in  the  open  sea  (200  nautical 
miles  away  from  the  nearest  coastline)  to  achieve  zero  ballast 
water  exchange  when  berthed  at  the  port.  Although  it  is  not 
mandated  by  the  International  Maritime  Organization  (IMO), 
OOCL’s  new  buildings  are  already  equipped  with  an  IMO 
approved  Ballast  Water  Treatment  System  to  effectively  treat 
ballast water before discharging.

Hong  Kong  Green  Organisation  Certification  (HKGOC)  – 
The  HKGOC  aims  to  benchmark  the  performance  of  “green” 
organisations  to  encourage  them  to  sustain  their  various 
environmental  best  practices.  It  also  presents  organisations 
with  the  opportunity  to  demonstrate  their  commitment  to 
improve different aspects of their environmental performance. 
In  appreciation  of  our  efforts  towards  environmental 
protection,  OOCL  was  given  the  status  of  “Hong  Kong  Green 
Organisation”  (HKGO)  by  the  Environmental  Campaign 
Committee  (ECC)  from  being  a  Gold  Winner  in  the  Hong 
Kong Awards for Environmental Excellence (HKAEE).

“Class  of  Excellence”  Wastewi$e  Label  –  OOCL  also 
received  environmental  recognition  for  our  participation 
and  performance  in  the  Wastewi$e  Label  Scheme  under 
the  Hong  Kong  Awards  for  Environmental  Excellence 
(HKAEE)  programme.  Under  the  Scheme,  participants  must 
achieve  at  least  nine  goals  or  more,  covering  at  least  two  of 
three  Wastewi$e  categories  in  order  to  be  granted  with  the 
“Class  of  Excellence”  Wastewi$e  Label.  The  three  categories 
include  Waste  Avoidance  &  Reduction  Measures,  Collection 
and  Recycling  of  Recyclable  Materials,  and  Purchase  or 
Manufacture of Recycled Products.

OOIL  becomes  a  FTSE4Good  Developed  Index  Constituent 
– The FTSE4Good Developed Index is one of the world’s most 
recognised  and  respected  indices  measuring  the  performance 
of  companies  demonstrating  strong  Environmental,  Social 
and  Governance  (ESG)  standards  for  investors  committed 
to  socially  responsible  investments.  OOIL  is  honoured  to  be 
the  first  Hong  Kong-based  enterprise  in  the  international 
transportation  and  logistics  industry  to  be  included  in  the 
Index.  Independently  assessed  according  to  the  Index  criteria, 
OOIL has met all ESG requirements to become a constituent of 
the Index for the fourth consecutive year since December 2015, 
an  important  milestone  in  the  company’s  efforts  to  achieving 
long-term sustainability objectives.

Hang  Seng  Corporate  Sustainability  Index  –  The  Group  is  a 
founding constituent of the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability 
Index,  launched  in  2010  to  recognise  the  top  30  companies 
with  the  highest  scores  in  areas  such  as  environmental  care, 
social  impact,  and  corporate  governance  (ESG).  We  have 
been  selected  as  a  constituent  of  the  Hang  Seng  Corporate 
Sustainability  Benchmark  Index  for  the  eighth  consecutive 
year, reflecting our continual outstanding performance in ESG. 
We  received  the  highest  sustainability  score  in  the  industrials 
sector from the latest sustainability performance review. These 
are  remarkable  achievements  as  well  as  recognition  of  our 
efforts  to  achieving  consistent  and  long-term  sustainability 
objectives.

Stop  Shipping  Shark,  Whale,  Dolphin,  and  Their  Related 
Products  –  On  15th  February  2016,  OOCL  announced  that 
bookings for whale, shark, dolphin, and their related products 
will  not  be  accepted.  This  new  policy  shows  our  commitment 
and  best  practices  in  supporting  the  global  effort  to  curb  the 
trade of at-risk, endangered and protected marine species.

26

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Responsibility

WWF-Hong  Kong  conservation  talk  on  No  Shark  Fin 
Carriage  –  OOCL  has  been  engaging  with  WWF,  a  leading 
global  conservation  organisation,  on  various  environmental 
and  sustainability  projects.  On  14th  September  2018,  we 
invited  WWF-Hong  Kong  to  talk  about  the  importance  of 
ocean  biodiversity  and  the  role  of  shipping  companies  in 
implementing  the  No  Shark  Fin  Carriage  Policy  through 
a  Lunch  &  Learn  session  with  our  OOCL  Hong  Kong  and 
South  China  Region  colleagues.  The  talk  aimed  to  raise  the 
environmental  awareness  of  our  colleagues  and  focus  on 
the  prevention  of  potential  risks  in  our  operations  which  is 
particularly useful when handling suspicious shipment orders.

Qualship 21 – Offered by the US Coast Guard, the Qualship 21 
program recognises high-quality ships for their excellent safety 
and antipollution standards and encourages quality operations. 
Most  of  OOCL’s  vessels  calling  the  US  have  already  been 
Qualship 21 certified since 2004.

Environmental  Data  Verification  –  Over  the  years,  OOCL 
has  been  taking  concrete,  meaningful  and  progressive  steps 
in  our  long-term  commitment  to  protecting  the  environment 
and  reducing  emissions  in  the  communities  where  we  operate 
by  meeting  our  Greenhouse  Gas  (GHG)  verification  targets 
spanning  from  Scopes  1  to  3.  In  2018,  our  GHG  Scope  3 
reporting  and  verification  has  successfully  been  expanded  to 
include  indirect  emissions  from  not  only  business  travel  by 
air  for  employees  of  our  Hong  Kong  office,  but  also  for  our 
two  terminals,  namely  the  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal, 
LLC.  (LBCT  LLC)  in  the  United  States,  and  the  Kaohsiung 
Container Terminal (KAOCT) in Taiwan. OOCL is committed 
to  reaching  higher  standards  and  transparency  levels  in 
our  GHG  reporting  which  are  all  in  accordance  with  the 
“Greenhouse  Gas  Protocol  –  A  Corporate  Accounting  and 
Reporting Standard.” In addition to our work related to GHG, 
OOCL  has  also  been  taking  a  leadership  role  in  building 
our  Environmental,  Social  and  Governance  (ESG)  profile 
to  tackle  a  wider  spectrum  of  environmental  challenges  we 
face  across  the  industry.  Verified  by  Lloyd’s  Register  Quality 
Assurance  (LRQA),  this  is  the  fifth  consecutive  year  that 
OOCL  has  achieved  dual  reporting  standards  through  the 
use  of  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  (CCWG)  and  ISO  14064-
1:2006  verification  tools  to  certify  the  transparency,  accuracy, 
completeness,  consistency  and  relevance  of  OOCL’s  data 
disclosure on Greenhouse Gas emissions.

OOCL  Named  Company  of  the  Year  at  the  Lloyd’s  List 
Global  Awards  –  OOCL  received  resounding  applause  from 
industry  peers  for  the  coveted  “Company  of  the  Year”  win  at 
the  Lloyd’s  List  Global  Awards  ceremony  in  London  on  11th 
December  2018.  This  top  honour  in  the  awards  programme 
pays  tribute  to  an  organisation  with  marked  achievements  in 
areas such as operational excellence, digital innovation and for 
maintaining an outstanding reputation  in the industry. Highly 
regarded  as  one  of  the  most  important  events  on  the  industry 
calendar,  this  distinguished  award  celebrates  our  exceptional 
accomplishments and unflinching commitment to performance 
as  the  industr y  navigated  through  some  of  the  most 
challenging  market  environments  over  the  last  few  years.  May 
it be in our persistent focus on operational efficiency, bringing 
innovative  solutions  to  customers,  taking  our  corporate 
sustainability profile into the next level, or pushing boundaries 
in the digital technology space, OOCL left no stones unturned 
to ensure we secure our competitive position and maintain our 
service  quality  hallmark  widely  recognised  by  our  customers 
and peers in the industry. OOCL reached a number of notable 
milestones in 2018, including our work in developing Artificial 
Intelligence  (AI)  applications  for  shipping,  contributing  to 
blockchain  developments  to  improve  supply  chain  efficiency, 
and launching competitive services to new markets in Africa.

O O C L  Ho n o r e d  w i t h  H K A E E  G o l d   S t a n d i n g  a n d 
Recognised  for  Outstanding  Green  Leadership  –  On  4th 
May  2018,  OOCL  received  the  2017  Hong  Kong  Awards 
for  Environmental  Excellence  (HKAEE)  Gold  Award  in  the 
Transport  and  Logistics  Sector.  Recognised  by  the  community 
as  one  of  the  most  prestigious  and  reputable  environmental 
award  schemes  in  Hong  Kong,  the  HKAEE  encourages 
businesses  and  organisations  to  embrace  green  management 
and  innovation  with  the  opportunity  to  benchmark  their 
environmental  performance  and  commitments  towards  best 
practices  within  their  sectors.  For  the  first  time  in  the  awards 
programme, and in addition to the HKAEE Gold Award, a new 
“Outstanding  Green  Leadership  Award”  was  introduced  this 
year  to  recognise  ten  top  performers  demonstrating  excellent 
performance in the aspect of green leadership. From over 1,600 
eligible applicants in 15 industry sectors, OOCL is very proud 
to be one of the first recipients of this award. As a responsible 
and  committed  member  of  the  international  community, 
OOCL  will  continue  to  strive  for  further  improvements  in  all 
aspects  of  our  business  for  a  greener  future  in  the  generations 
to come.

2727

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018United  Nations  Global  Compact  (UNGC)  –  OOIL  was 
the  first  Hong  Kong-based  enterprise  in  the  international 
transportation and logistics industry to take part in the United 
Nations  Global  Compact.  Through  our  business  strategies, 
operation, corporate culture, and continual engagement in the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDG)  set  out  by  the  United 
Nations,  we  are  committed  to  supporting  the  Ten  Principles 
of  the  UNGC  that  sets  out  fundamental  responsibilities  in 
areas  such  as  human  rights,  labour,  environment  and  anti-
corruption.  To  demonstrate  our  long-term  commitment  in 
corporate  sustainability,  transparency,  and  accountability, 
we  aim  to  publish  a  Communication  on  Progress  (COP) 
report  on  an  annual  basis  to  describe  our  extensive  efforts 
in  implementing  the  Ten  Principles  and  SDG.  Prior  to  our 
participation  in  the  UNGC,  we  have  already  been  very  active 
in  building  up  our  work  on  SDGs.  In  our  2016  Sustainability 
Report,  we  began  to  introduce  new  targets  and  specific  action 
items  towards  the  formulation  of  relevant  SDGs  to  tackle 
environmental and social issues across industries.

Enhancing  Cetacean  Habitat  and  Observation  (ECHO) 
Program  –  OOCL  participated  in  the  Enhancing  Cetacean 
Habitat  and  Observation  (ECHO)  Program  between  1st  July 
and  31st  October  2018  to  study  how  to  reduce  the  cumulative 
effects  of  shipping  on  at-risk  whales  throughout  the  southern 
coast of British Columbia in Canada. Over the 16 weeks of this 
Program, 96% of our vessels voluntarily sailed at slower speeds 
in the research region, bringing our vessel participate rate 46% 
higher than in 2017. OOCL’s commitment and contribution to 
this Program was an important part of our sustainability work 
in  addressing  the  “SDG  14:  Life  Below  Water”  component  of 
marine life protection and conservation.

Corporate Responsibility

OOCL  is  first  in  industry  to  win  Corporate  Environmental 

Leadership  Gold  Award  –  On  31st  May  2018,  OOCL  was 

very  honoured  to  be  the  first  carrier  in  the  international 

transportation and logistics industry to receive the Gold Award 

at  the  2017  BOCHK  Corporate  Environmental  Leadership 

Awards ceremony. This distinguished awards programme aims 

to  acknowledge  outstanding  participating  organisations  for 

their  efforts  in  promoting  environmental  and  low-carbon  best 

practices  in  the  manufacturing  and  services  sectors  in  Hong 

Kong  and  the  Pan  Pearl  River  Delta  region  following  three 

rounds of assessments by a professional adjudication panel and 

independent assessors.

Seatrade  Maritime  Awards  Asia  –  On  25th  April  2018, 

OOCL received the new Green Shipping Award from Seatrade 

Maritime  Awards  Asia  in  Singapore.  This  overreaching 

award  recognises  the  company’s  effort  in  green  technology 

investment, carbon management, compliance to environmental 

regulations  and  promotion  in  environmental  awareness.  Being 

the first award winner in this category, we attribute our success 

to  the  initiatives  we  made  in  addressing  global  environmental 

challenges  over  the  years.  They  include  our  proactive  agenda 

in  adhering  to  the  United  Nations’  Sustainable  Development 

Goals  (SDGs),  green  investments  on  our  assets,  research 

on  green  IT  solutions,  and  Greenhouse  Gas  control  in  our 

business operations.

Singapore  Environmental  Achievement  Awards  (SEAA)  –

OOCL was proud to receive the 2018 Singapore Environmental 

Achievement  Award  (Regional)  at  a  ceremony  held  at  the 

Singapore Environment Council’s (SEC) Conference Day event 

on  30th  August  2018.  The  SEAA  (Regional)  Award  category 

recognises  local  or  international  companies  and  organisations 

with  outstanding  environmental  performance  in  Asia,  and 

this  year,  the  regional  scope  has  been  expanded  to  welcome 

companies  from  Greater  China,  Japan,  South  Korea,  and 

ASEAN countries to take part in the awards scheme.

28

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Responsibility

Since  2000,  all  our  vessels  have  been  installed  with 
environment-friendly  NOx-controlled  propulsive  engines 
while  advanced  slide  fuel  injection  valves  are  adopted  to  help 
reduce  NOx  emissions  by  30%.  All  our  new  buildings  since 
2011  are  also  equipped  with  Alternative  Maritime  Power 
(AMP)  Systems,  also  known  as  “Cold  Ironing”,  which  allows 
the  vessel  to  use  shore  supplied  electricity  instead  of  burning 
fuel when at berth. OOCL is fully compliant to the EU, North 
America  and  IMO  mandated  requirements  of  using  0.1%  or 
lower  sulphur  content  fuel  in  all  SOx  Emission  Control  Areas 
(SECA).  We  are  also  compliant  to  the  requirements  of  using 
0.1%  sulphur  content  fuel  when  our  vessels  are  berthed  at 
designated  EU  ports.  We  also  ensure  that  the  sulphur  content 
of our fuel is well below the IMO prescribed standard of 3.5% 
when our vessels sail in the high seas. In 2018, OOCL achieved 
an average sulphur content of 2.63%.

Our Offices – Our focus is to create and maintain a “paperless 
office”  environment  by  eliminating  the  use  of  faxes  and 
unnecessary  paper  documents.  As  a  business  which  has 
traditionally  relied  on  paper  documentation  with  customers, 
such  as  bills  of  lading  and  invoices,  we  have  successfully 
taken  innovative  measures  to  effectively  reduce  our  paper 
consumption since 2006.

We have implemented a “reduce, re-use and recycle” campaign 
in  all  our  offices  around  the  world,  encouraging  employees 
to  switch  off  computers  after  work,  powering  off  copiers  and 
lights  after  use,  and  to  install  energy  saving  office  equipment, 
such  as  energy  efficient  light  bulbs.  We  also  have  mandatory 
training  for  all  staff  in  safety,  security  and  environmental 
issues,  and  organise  OOCL  Green  Week  every  July  in  offices 
around the world.

2929

OOCL  Sponsors  and  Participates  in  Walk  for  Nature  2018 
–  On  3rd  November  2018,  our  Hong  Kong  colleagues  and 
their  guests  participated  in  the  Walk  for  Nature  2018  at  the 
iconic  Mai  Po  Nature  Reserve.  Walk  for  Nature  is  an  annual 
fundraising  event  of  the  WWF,  which  supports  the  Reserve’s 
work  on  local  biodiversity  and  land  conservation.  OOCL  was 
one of the sponsors of the event where the participants learned 
more  about  the  experience  of  migratory  birds’  journey  to 
Hong Kong and through a series of related activities also raised 
their  awareness  and  knowledge  of  conservation  issues  and 
sustainable  living  in  Mai  Po.  OOCL  supports  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  set  out  by  the  United  Nations 
and  our  participation  in  this  event  shows  our  support  and 
commitment  to  the  United  Nation’s  SDG  15:  Life  on  Land, 
which  aims  to  ensure  that  the  conservation,  restoration,  and 
the  sustainable  use  of  resources  of  wetlands  are  in  line  with 
obligations  under  international  agreements.  To  continue  with 
our  commitment  in  meeting  other  relevant  SDGs,  we  will 
cooperate  with  industry  bodies  and  environment-focused 
organisations in addressing different environmental challenges.

Our Vessels – The best way to reduce harmful emissions in the 
shipping industry is to reduce the consumption of fuel. For well 
over  a  decade  OOCL  implemented  a  fuel  saving  programme 
including weather routing systems, slow steaming (addition of 
extra  vessels  on  service  loops  and  travelling  at  slower  speeds), 
minimising  ballast  water  to  help  achieve  a  lighter  vessel  load, 
and  achieving  better  trim  of  ship  draughts  by  good  stowage, 
thereby  burning  less  fuel.  By  taking  these  measures,  we  have 
reduced  our  CO2  emissions  by  more  than  50%  since  2004.  In 
addition  to  reducing  our  emissions,  we  are  able  to  help  our 
customers  achieve  a  lower  carbon  footprint  in  their  supply 
chains.

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Responsibility

Our  Containers  –  Today,  OOCL  only  uses  CFC-free 
refrigerants  for  all  our  refrigerated  (reefer)  containers. 
OOCL’s newest reefer containers have one of the lowest power 
consumption  in  the  industry,  and  we  install  ThermoKing 
“EcoPower”  gensets  for  better  energy  efficiency.  All  our 
containers  have  been  applied  with  tin-free  paint  and 
introduced the use of eco-friendly bamboo floorboards instead 
of using traditional hardwood ones.

The Group’s sustainability and environmentally conscious best 
practices often exceeds legal requirements and general industry 
standards  in  the  countries  where  it  operates.  As  a  responsible 
and  committed  member  of  the  international  community,  the 
Group  will  continually  strive  for  further  improvements  in  all 
aspects of its business.

SECURITY
In  a  world  where  global  cargo  security  threats  always  increase 
the  complexities  of  the  international  trade  community,  OOCL 
is strongly committed to the security of our operations against 
possible  compromise  and  to  the  maintenance  of  the  highest 
level  of  compliance  in  security  related  areas.  From  our  offices 
to  ports,  warehouses,  shore  facilities  and  onboard  our  vessels, 
we  work  with  the  responsible  authorities  to  ensure  that  every 
measure  is  in  place  to  maintain  the  highest  commercial  and 
operational  security  standards  possible  at  all  times,  while  all 
employees are educated and regularly updated through security 
training.

The Group’s Corporate Security Policy and internal guidelines 
comply  with  the  US  Customs-Trade  Partnership  Against 
Terrorism  (C-TPAT)  initiative,  EU  Authorised  Economic 
Operator  (AEO)  Programme,  and  we  actively  work  with 
various  governments  and  authorities  around  the  world  to 
counter  any  act  that  would  impinge  upon  maritime  or  cargo 
security. Under our policy, we have internal security checks to 
all  of  its  holdings  and  our  security  profile  has  been  validated 
by  the  US  Customs  and  Border  Protection  agency  through 
physical  checks  of  the  offices  and  facilities  of  the  Group 
including terminals, warehouses, depots and vessels.

Our  company  meets  the  International  Ship  and  Port  Facility 
Security Code (ISPS Code), which ensures that security threats 
are  detected  and  assessed  while  preventive  measures  are  in 
place  on  our  vessels  and  at  our  port  facilities.  A  designated 
officer  on  each  ship  and  at  each  port  facility  reports  to  the 
Company  Security  Officer  who  oversees  the  security  plans, 
drills  and  training.  With  this  in  place,  all  our  vessels  continue 
to  have  an  exemplary  record  containing  zero  breaches  of 
security  and  clean  detention  records.  In  addition,  to  provide 
world-class  quality  and  secure  information  to  customers 
and  partners,  our  Global  Data  Centre  has  also  achieved  and 
maintained ISO 27001 certification.

OOCL  has  been  certified  as  a  “Partners  in  Protection”  (PIP) 
carrier by the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) Partners 
in  Protection.  It  is  a  voluntary  program  established  by  the 
CBSA  to  enhance  border  security,  combat  organised  crime 
and  terrorism,  detect  and  prevent  contraband  smuggling,  and 
increase  awareness  of  issues  to  secure  the  flow  of  legitimate 
goods  and  travellers  across  the  US-Canadian  border.  OOCL 
applies anti-piracy measures before our vessels transit through 
High  Risk  Areas  (HRA).  One  of  the  key  measures  is  to 
maintain  a  24-hour,  360-degree  anti-piracy  visual  and  radar 
watch and to deploy additional watch-keepers at the bridge and 
on  deck  while  transiting  the  HRA  to  watch  out  for  suspected 
pirate  vessels.  Physical  measures  are  also  utilised  onboard, 
such as barbed wires, spikes, and night vision binoculars. Close 
communication  is  always  maintained  between  ships  and  our 
Fleet  Management  Department  (FMD)  office.  FMD’s  24-hour 
emergency hotline is always on standby mode in the case of any 
emergency.

Traditionally,  antivirus  and  malware  detection  software 
would  provide  a  boost  to  our  computer  security  by  helping 
our  computers  stay  away  from  being  “infected”.  But  as  the 
development  of  the  Internet  is  becoming  more  sophisticated 
than ever, signature-based virus/malware detection tools alone 
are no longer sufficient today.

30

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018This  is  because  the  “Advanced  Persistent  Threat”  (APT),  a 
set  of  stealthy  and  continuous  computer  hacking  processes 
often  orchestrated  by  attackers  targeting  a  specific  entity 
by  taking  advantage  of  security  loopholes,  is  growing.  APT 
has  been  observed  to  target  organisations  and/or  nations 
for  business,  financial  and/or  political  motives.  “Corporate 
Security  Breaches”,  “Email  Spoofing”,  “Spear  Phishing”  and 
“Social  Media  Fraud”  are  some  of  the  common  types  of  cyber 
attacks.  To  boost  our  employee’s  knowledge  and  awareness 
of  cyber  security,  new  initiatives  and  programmes  have  been 
developed  to  ensure  everyone  takes  part  in  protecting  our 
assets  and  become  more  resilient  against  such  threats.  This 
includes an annual cyber security training and mandatory test 
for  all  employees,  monthly  knowledge  and  trend  updates,  and 
sophisticated monitoring and protective systems.

COMMUNITY AND EDUCATION
As  a  responsible  corporate  citizen,  the  Group  recognises 
that  the  societies  in  which  its  employees  live  and  work 
contribute  greatly  to  the  company’s  overall  success.  Care  for 
these  communities  in  which  it  operates  is  therefore  a  major 
corporate focus. The Group concentrates its community efforts 
on  charity  programmes  designed  to  provide  well-rounded 
youth  education,  charity  relief  to  the  needy,  and  cultural 
entertainment to the whole community.

OOCL  employees  across  the  world  are  encouraged  to  give 
something back to the communities in which they live through 
charitable  activities  such  as  fundraising  and  volunteering  by 
dedicating their time and  efforts to  help  others  in need.  Some 
of  the  areas  where  the  charity  donations  were  made  by  the 
Group  and  its  employees  include:  education,  social  services, 
orphanages, elderly homes, schools, children’s hospitals, cancer 
research,  multiple  sclerosis,  and  diabetes  research.  In  addition 
to financial donations, the Group also contributes in kind. We 
offer  transportation  and  logistics  support  to  send  relief  to  the 
affected  areas.  Assistance  in  the  form  of  free  transportation 
is  often  given  to  a  number  of  charitable  projects  including 
transporting  medical  diagnostic  equipment  and  supplies  from 
the  US  to  China  to  care  for  those  children  who  need  urgent 
treatments.

Corporate Responsibility

In  keeping  with  the  Group’s  long  tradition  in  supporting 
education,  the  Group,  in  partnership  with  The  Tung 
Foundation,  committed  more  than  US$500,000  in  2018  to 
scholarships through The Tung OOCL Scholarship for students 
and our employees’ children.

In  2018,  forty-six  OOCL  vessels  participated  in  the  Hong 
Kong  Voluntary  Observing  Ship  (HKVOS)  programme  by 
the  Hong  Kong  Observatory  (HKO)  to  gather  and  provide 
marine  climatology  data  needed  to  help  identify  prevailing 
weather conditions for preparing forecasts and warnings to the 
maritime  community.  To  recognise  our  outstanding  efforts  to 
help  improve  maritime  safety,  the  HKO  presented  two  “Gold 
Awards”  to OOCL France and OOCL San Francisco on  17th 
July  2018. OOCL Nagoya  was  also  presented  a  certificate  of 
appreciation  for  her  assistance  in  deploying  a  drifting  buoy 
in  the  South  China  Sea  to  measure  atmospheric  pressure  and 
temperature over the sea surface during the typhoon season in 
2017.

KEY RELATIONSHIPS WITH CUSTOMERS 
AND SUPPLIERS
“Customer  focus”  is  one  of  the  core  values  of  the  Group.  We 
believe  in  long-term,  mutually  beneficial  relationships  with 
our customers and strive to help create value for our customers 
through  collaboration  to  enhance  customer  competitiveness. 
This  is  achieved  by  seeing  things  from  the  customer’s 
perspective, trying to understand their business and anticipate 
their requirements. All employees are trained to be proactive in 
meeting  customers’  expectations  and  responding  with  a  sense 
of urgency.

“We  Take  It  Personally”  is  not  just  a  slogan  at  OOCL,  but 
also  an  attitude  that  all  employees  are  encouraged  to  adopt  in 
dealing  with  our  customers.  Each  year  we  recognise  hundreds 
of  employees  around  the  world  for  displaying  initiative  and 
going beyond the call of duty to meet our customers’ needs.

3131

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018EMPLOYEE INFORMATION
As  a  responsible  corporate  citizen  employing  the  highest 
standards  of  business  ethics  in  all  that  it  does,  the  Group 
understands  that  the  process  begins  with  the  well  treatment 
of  its  employees.  As  a  successful  corporation,  the  Group 
appreciates  that  its  success,  growth  and  performance  are 
attributable  to  the  skills,  dedication  and  teamwork  of  its 
employees. It regards people as its greatest asset and takes good 
care of them.

In  the  spirit  of  mutual  respect,  the  Group  is  an  equal 
opportunity  employer  with  a  clearly  defined  policy,  covering 
areas  such  as  treating  all  employees  with  fairness  and  dignity, 
promoting  the  corporate  culture  of  encouraging  open  and 
frank  communication  throughout  the  organisation,  investing 
in  its  employees  and  caring  for  their  hopes  and  aspirations 
through  people  development  programmes  and  education,  as 
well as recognising their efforts and achievements.

People  development  remains  a  cornerstone  of  the  corporate 
culture  and  enables  the  effective  operation  of  the  Group’s 
career  development  policy  through  recruitment  and  internal 
promotion.  The  Group  has  channelled  a  great  deal  of  time 
and effort into its various people development programmes in 
practical  and  experiential  environments  through  job  rotation, 
local  and  overseas  job  assignments,  formal  and  informal 
learning  and  development  opportunities  and  sponsorships  for 
performance enhancement building capacities of employees in 
support  of  their  growth  with  the  Group.  To  further  enhance 
practical training and better HQ/Regional cooperation, efforts 
have been made to initiate more short term cross regional job 
rotations.

Corporate Responsibility

It is the Group’s policy to maintain a diversified customer base 
across  all  geographical  regions  and  trade  lanes.  A  Key  Risk 
Indicator  (KRI)  of  customer  concentration  was  developed  in 
the year 2017 and is included in the functional risk dashboard 
for  the  Group’s  liner  business  which  is  being  monitored  on  a 
quarterly basis. Different tolerance limits for the KRI are set for 
regions,  trades  and  the  organisation  as  a  whole.  As  at  the  end 
of 2018, OOCL had approximately 27,000 active customers and 
the customer concentration was at an acceptable level.

In  the  Group’s  relationship  with  suppliers,  we  put  special 
emphasis  on  the  supplier  selection  process  in  which  both 
quantitative  and  qualitative  factors  are  considered  objectively, 
independently  and  openly,  according  to  the  Group’s  highest 
ethical  standards.  Pricing  is  not  the  Group’s  primar y 
consideration;  instead,  the  Group  focuses  its  attention  on 
the  suppliers’  quality  service,  safety  and  ethical  standards. 
“Excellence  through  quality”  is  another  core  value  of  the 
Group. While we endeavour to provide the best quality service 
to  our  customers  by  setting  high  standards  for  ourselves,  we 
demand the same high standards from our suppliers. It is also 
the  Group’s  policy  to  maintain  a  diversified  supplier  base 
across all geographical regions.

In  2017,  the  Group  developed  supplier  management  KRIs 
to  monitor  supplier  concentration  in  different  regions  and 
poor  supplier  services.  Cases  of  supplier  service  failure  were 
shared  among  employees  to  alert  them  to  the  importance  of 
communicating  our  expectations  to  the  suppliers  and  taking 
the  right  remedial  mitigating  actions.  As  at  the  end  of  2018, 
OOCL  had  approximately  19,300  active  suppliers  and  the 
supplier concentration was at an acceptable level.

32

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Responsibility

As  at  31st  December  2018,  the  Group  had  10,321  full-time 
employees.  Their  salary  and  benefit  levels  are  maintained  at 
competitive  levels.  Employees  are  rewarded  on  a  performance 
related  basis  within  the  general  policy  and  framework  of 
the  Group’s  salary  and  bonus  schemes  which  are  regularly 
reviewed.  Other  benefits  including  medical  insurance  and 
pension  funds  are  also  provided,  and  social  and  recreational 
activities are organised around the world.

In  the  interest  of  adhering  to  the  highest  ethical  standards  on 
an ongoing basis, the Group has formulated a Code of Conduct 
which serves as a guideline to ensure compliance with all local, 
national and international legal standards. It helps to preclude 
any  offences  under  local,  national  and  international  laws, 
breaches  of  confidentiality  and  non-disclosure  requirements, 
intellectual property rights infringement, as well as conflicts of 
interest,  acts  of  bribery,  corruption  or  political  contribution, 
and  any  other  corporate  misconduct.  The  Group  has  set  up 
procedures  to  identify,  manage  and  control  risks  that  may 
have  an  impact  on  the  business  of  the  Group.  Established 
in  2006,  the  Group’s  “Whistle  Blower  Policy”  is  one  of  the 
Group’s  formalised  procedures  through  which  employees  can 
anonymously  file  reports  or  register  concerns  and  governs 
the  reporting  and  investigation  of  allegations  to  suspected 
improper activities.

The  Group  is  an  equal  opportunity  employer  with  policies 
not  to  discriminate  against  any  employee  or  applicant  for 
employment  on  the  grounds  of  race,  colour,  religion,  creed, 
age,  sex,  disability,  pregnancy,  childbirth  and  related  medical 
condition,  marital  status,  sexual  orientation,  veteran  status 
and  any  other  category  as  guided  by  local  laws  and  legal 
regulations.

The  Group  employs  an  innovative  approach  to  internal 
communications,  employee  learning  and  people  development. 
The  Group  provides  support  to  its  employees  to  help  them 
deliver what customers need and unleash their potential. Since 
2010,  the  Group  has  utilised  its  intranet,  called  “InfoNet”,  as 
a  learner-centric  platform  for  dissemination  of  company  news 
and  business  updates  while  providing  its  employees  with  a 
tool  to  share  knowledge,  exchange  views  and  formulate  ideas. 
In  2011,  the  Group  adopted  a  wide  range  of  enterprise  level 
collaboration  tools.  In  addition  to  conventional  methods  of 
communication such as email, other tools such as OOCL Wiki, 
OOCL Channel, Jabber, and Tibbr, have become very effective 
in  the  global  sharing  of  information  and  knowledge  as  well  as 
facilitate  collaboration  amongst  colleagues  around  the  world. 
They  also  helped  support  accelerated  learning  by  providing 
us  with  the  means  to  leverage  resources,  ideas  and  hence 
solutions.  Since  2016,  we  have  also  implemented  the  use  of 
the  Microsoft  Office  365  cloud-based  information  platform  to 
further our internal communication goals.

3333

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Financial Review

Financial Review

Revenue for 2018 was US$591.0 million 
better than that of 2017, representing 
an increase of 10%.

34

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Analysis of Consolidated Profit and Loss Account

Summary of Group Results

Financial Review

Favourable/

(unfavourable)

US$’000

2018

2017

Change

 %

Operating revenue by activity:

Container Transport and Logistics

Other Activities

6,546,964

25,691

5,951,518

30,158

595,446

(4,467)

Group operating revenue

6,572,655

5,981,676

590,979

Operating profit by activity:

Container Transport and Logistics

Other Activities

Group operating profit

Finance costs

Share of profits of joint ventures and  

associated companies

Net gain in fair value on investment property

Profit before taxation

Taxation

195,998

27,437

223,435

(143,191)

14,324

94,568

39,500

134,068

(58,620)

92,296

102,423

194,719

(97,418)

19,134

116,435

43,436

159,871

(12,433)

Profit for the year from continuing operations

75,448

147,438

103,702

(74,986)

28,716

(45,773)

(4,810)

(21,867)

(3,936)

(25,803)

(46,187)

(71,990)

Profit/(loss) for the year from  

discontinued operation

32,718

(9,782)

42,500

Profit attributable to shareholders

108,166

137,656

(29,490)

10%

(15%)

10%

112%

(73%)

15%

(47%)

(25%)

(19%)

(9%)

(16%)

(371%)

(49%)

N/M

(21%)

Revenue  for  2018  was  US$591.0  million  better  than  that  of  2017,  representing  an  increase  of  10%.  This  increase  in  revenues  is 

attributed to an increase in both higher freight rates and liftings for the core Container Transport and Logistics business. Other 

revenue, amounting to less than 1% of the Group’s revenue for both 2018 and 2017, represented rental income from the Group’s 

investment property, Wall Street Plaza, in New York.

3535

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Container Transport and Logistics
Summary of Operating Results

US$’000

Liftings (TEUs)

Revenue per TEU (US$)

Operating revenue by location from  

continuing operations:
Asia/Australia
North America
Europe

2018

2017

6,696,919

6,298,735

890

861

4,939,679
670,225
937,060

4,427,255
655,351
868,912

5,951,518

Operating revenue from continuing operations

6,546,964

Operating costs by items from  

continuing operations:
Cargo costs
Bunker costs
Vessel and voyage costs (excluding Bunker)
Equipment and repositioning costs

(3,169,113)
(844,390)
(1,053,866)
(777,105)

(3,012,894)
(657,853)
(986,428)
(753,053)

Operating costs from continuing operations

(5,844,474)

(5,410,228)

Gross profit
Business and administrative expenses
Other income, net

Operating profit from continuing operations

702,490
(525,878)
19,386

195,998

Operating margin from continuing operations

3%

541,290
(455,358)
6,364

92,296

2%

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

6%

3%

12%
2%
8%

10%

(5%)
(28%)
(7%)
(3%)

(8%)

30%
(15%)
205%

112%

Change

398,184

29

512,424
14,874
68,148

595,446

(156,219)
(186,537)
(67,438)
(24,052)

(434,246)

161,200
(70,520)
13,022

103,702

The Container Transport and Logistics business trades under the “OOCL” name and represents the principal revenue contributor 
to the Group, accounting for over 99% of the Group’s revenue in 2018. Container Transport and Logistics will continue to be the 
core business of the Group in which the majority of the Group’s operating assets will be deployed.

Operating Revenue of Container Transport and Logistics

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

%
4
7

%
6
7

%
5
1

%
1
1

2017

%
4
1

%
0
1

2018

Asia/Australia

North America

Europe

The  operating  results  for  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  also  include  the  operation  of  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in 
Taiwan as this terminal mainly employed by OOCL and its alliance members.

36

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Asia/Australia

Revenue  from  the  Asia/Australia  area  increased  from  US$4,427.3  million  in  2017  to  US$4,939.7  million  in  2018  as  a  result  of 

increased  cargo  volumes,  and  improved  freight  rates.  Nearly  all  trades  recorded  a  rebound  in  performance  with  Trans-Pacific 

registering the largest increase in revenue terms when compared with last year.

The overall liftings of the Trans-Pacific eastbound services increased by 13% while freight rates also increased. The westbound legs 

of the Asia/Northern Europe services recorded a 14% growth in volumes amid a 1% drop in rates. Intra-Asia achieved a rise of 4% 

in liftings albeit with a 2% decrease in rates. Liftings of the Asia/Australia and New Zealand services declined by 1% as a result of 

a 26% reduction in New Zealand liftings from a corresponding 29% cut in loadable capacity.

Loadable  capacity  available  during  2018  was  5  percentage  points  higher  than  that  of  2017.  Results  from  this  region  have  always 

been dependent upon the economic environment and consumption patterns of North America and Europe.

Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in  Taiwan  is  an  integral  part  of  the  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  business  and  its  terminal 

facilities are mainly employed by OOCL and its alliance members.

North America

Revenue  increase  US$14.9  million  for  this  area  in  2018  thanks  to  increased  liftings  in  combination  with  higher  freight  rates  on 

most trades.

Westbound  liftings  of  the  North  America  West  Coast/Asia  service  and  the  US  East  Coast/Asia  service  via  the  Panama  Canal 

increased by 1% compared with last year but revenue showed a 3% rise, mainly due to higher overall freight rates. The eastbound 

Canada/Northern  Europe  and  US  East  Coast/Northern  Europe  services  recorded  a  2%  fall  in  volumes,  and  a  1%  decrease  in 

revenue.

The  overall  volumes  were  flat  while  the  average  revenue  per  TEU  across  most  of  the  outbound  cargoes  from  North  America 

recorded an increase compared with last year. Loadable capacity during 2018 was 11 percentage points higher than that of 2017.

Europe

Revenue for this area was up by US$68.1 million in 2018, recording an 8% revenue increase. The eastbound leg of the Northern 

Europe/Asia services recorded a 3% fall in revenue in 2018 while the westbound trades of the Trans-Atlantic routes showed a 6% 

increase. Intra-Europe market showed remarkable revenue growth of 57%.

The eastbound leg of the Northern Europe/Asia services saw a 14% increase in volume in 2018 at the expenses of a 16% drop in 

freight rates. Liftings for the westbound sectors to North America were flat compared to 2017 while the average revenue per TEU 

was higher from last year.

Loadable capacity during 2018 was 12 percentage points higher than that of 2017.

3737

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Financial Review

Revenue per TEU by Services

US$

1,400 

1,200 

1,000 

800 

600 

400 

Q1 2017

Q2 2017

Q3 2017

Q4 2017

Q1 2018

Q2 2018

Q3 2018

Q4 2018

Trans-Pacific

Asia-Europe

Trans-Atlantic

Intra-Asia/Australia

All Trades

Operating Costs

The principal operating costs of the container transport business, including cargo costs, vessel costs, voyage costs, equipment and 
repositioning costs, increased from 2017 mainly as a result of higher liftings and the surge in bunker cost.

Cargo  costs  mainly  consist  of  terminal  charges,  inland  transportation  costs,  commission  and  brokerage,  cargo  assessment  and 
freight tax, all of which are largely paid in the local currencies of the areas in which the activities take place. Cargo cost increased 
by 5% against 2017 level, approximating with lifting growth.

Average Market Price of Fuel Oil per Ton

US$

600

500

400

300

200

100

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr May

Jun

Jul

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

Dec

2017

2018

Voyage costs comprise mainly bunker costs, port charges, canal dues, cargo claims and insurance. Bunker costs increased from an 
average of US$326 per ton in 2017 to an average of US$436 per ton in 2018, resulting in a 28% surge in bunker costs for the year.

38

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Financial Review

Vessel costs include the operating costs and depreciation charges relating to the OOCL fleet as well as the net charter hire and slot 
hire  expenses  incurred  in  order  to  maintain  the  scheduled  service  levels.  The  total  carrying  capacity  grew  slightly  from  698,401 
TEU as at the end of 2017 to 701,463 TEU at the year end in 2018, though the total number of vessels operated by OOCL, both 
owned and chartered-in, decreased from 102 to 101.

During 2018, there was an increase in a number of vessel and voyage costs including crew wages, charter hire and slot hire. As a 
result, total vessel and voyage costs, other than bunker costs, for 2018 increased by 7% as compared with 2017.

Equipment  costs  mainly  represent  maintenance  and  repair  costs,  rental  payments,  depot  expenses  and  depreciation  charges 
relating  to  the  fleet  of  containers  equipment,  while  repositioning  costs  arise  mainly  from  the  relocation  of  empty  containers 
from  areas  of  low  activity  to  high  demand  regions.  The  container  fleet  size  increased  from  1,146,548  TEU  in  2017  to  1,251,324 
TEU in 2018 while the increment in total equipment and repositioning costs was contained at 3%. It was due to the reduction of 
depreciation charges as a result of the extension of the useful life of equipment during the second half of 2018.

Operating costs

2017

2018

14%

13%

18%

18%

56%

54%

12%

15%

Cargo costs

Bunker costs

Vessel and voyage costs
(excluding Bunker)

Equipment and 
repositioning costs

Business and Administrative Expenses

Business  and  administrative  expenses  largely  comprise  staff  costs,  office  expenses,  selling  and  marketing  costs,  professional  and 
information  system  expenses.  Business  and  administrative  expenses  increased  by  US$70.5  million,  or  15%  when  compared  with 
2017 which was mainly attributable to the increase in staff cost and adoption of a more prudent bad debt provision policy.

Other income, net

Other income, comprising principally net foreign exchange differences, net gain or loss on the disposal of assets, interest income 
from banks and other non-operating gains/losses. Net income for 2018 increased by US$13.0 million when compared with 2017 
mainly due to increase in net gain on the disposal of assets.

Operating margin from Continuing Operations

Operating  margin  from  continuing  operations  improved  from  2%  in  2017  to  3%  in  2018.  The  improvement  in  freight  rates, 
coupled with the lifting growth, helped offsetting the negative impact from rising bunker costs, leading to increased profitability 
for the Container Transport and Logistics business in 2018.

3939

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Financial Review

Other Activities

Summary of Operating Results

US$’000

Rental income
Operating costs

Gross profit
Investment income
Interest income
Income from investment in Hui Xian
Others

Operating profit

2018

25,691
(15,365)

10,326
2,025
24,025
23,812
(32,751)

27,437

2017

30,158
(15,555)

14,603
33,999
21,932
21,786
10,103

102,423

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

(15%)
1%

(29%)
(94%)
10%
9%
N/M

(73%)

Change

(4,467)
190

(4,277)
(31,974)
2,093
2,026
(42,854)

(74,986)

The  Group  owns  an  approximately  600,000  sq  ft  office  and  commercial  property,  Wall  Street  Plaza,  located  at  88  Pine  Street, 
New  York,  USA,  an  area  popularly  referred  to  as  the  “Wall  Street  area”.  The  building  was  constructed  in  1972  and  is  operated 
as  a  multi-tenanted  building.  Approximately  8,656  sq  ft  is  occupied  by  Group  companies.  The  Group  also  invests  funds  surplus 
to operations in cash and bank deposit and, on a longer term basis, in equity and bond portfolios. The Group also owns certain 
interest in Hui Xian Holdings Ltd and Hui Xian REIT.

The operating profit from Other Activities for 2018 was US$75.0 million lower than that of 2017 mainly as a result of fair value 
loss on portfolio investments and unfavourable exchange on the depreciation of Renminbi against US dollar.

Rental Income

Rental income from Wall Street Plaza was US$4.5 million lower than that of last year, with an occupancy rate of 82% as at the end 
of 2018.

Investment Income

Investment  activities  recorded  a  profit  of  US$2.0  million  for  the  year  compared  with  US$34.0  million  in  2017.  Interest  income 
from  bond  investments  amounted  to  US$23.2  million  for  2018  which  was  US$1.2  million  higher  than  last  year.  Fair  value  loss, 
disposal loss and impairment loss totalled US$22.2 million in 2018 as compared with a net gain of US$10.8 million for 2017.

US$’000

25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
0
(5,000)
(10,000)
(15,000)
(20,000)
(25,000)

Investment Income By Activities

5
9
9
,
1
2

6
2
2
,
3
2

7
8
1
,
1

0
9
9

7
1
8
,
0
1

)
2
9
1
,
2
2
(

Interest income from
investments

2017

2018

Impairment,
fair value and
disposal loss

Dividend income

40

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Interest Income

Interest income in 2018 was US$2.1 million more than that of 2017 as a result of rising interest rates.

Income from Investment in Hui Xian

Hui Xian Holdings Ltd declared and paid both cash dividends and dividends in specie in 2018, of which the Group shared a total 
of US$22.6 million. The Group also received US$1.2 million distribution from its holdings of Hui Xian REIT to add up a total of 
US$23.8 million income from investment in Hui Xian. In 2017, a total of US$21.2 million from Hui Xian Holdings Ltd, in terms of 
cash dividends and dividends in specie, and a US$0.6 million distribution from Hui Xian REIT were received.

Others

Other  items  include  business  and  administration  expenses  for  property  management,  exchange  differences  and  other 
miscellaneous items. The loss was mainly attributable to a foreign exchange loss in 2018 as a result of the depreciation of Renminbi 
against US dollar and one-off professional fees incurred in 2018.

Finance Costs

The  Group  incurs  interest  expenses  on  bank  loans  and  finance  leases.  These  borrowings  are  mostly  secured  against  vessels  and 
containers owned by the Group. Finance costs also include fees on lease administration.

Finance costs increased by US$45.8 million as compared with 2017, mainly due to a higher average cost of debt for the year.

Net Gain in Fair Value on Investment Property

As  at  31st  December  2018,  the  Group’s  investment  property,  Wall  Street  Plaza,  was  valued  at  US$310.0  million,  up  from  the 
US$270.0 million valuation at the end of 2017, by an independent valuer. After offsetting a total of US$0.5 million capital outlays, 
the  net  gain  in  fair  value  for  2018  was  therefore  US$39.5  million.  In  2017,  the  property  recorded  a  valuation  gain  of  US$50.0 
million which was offset against capital improvements of US$6.6 million to result in a net fair value gain of US$43.4 million.

Share of Profits of Joint Ventures and Associated Companies

Share of profits of joint ventures and associated companies mainly represents the Group’s investments in two depot joint ventures 
in Qingdao and Vietnam, two agency joint ventures in the Middle East and a 20% stake in two terminals in Tianjin and Ningbo. 
The  share  of  US$14.3  million  profit  from  joint  ventures  and  associated  companies  in  2018  was  US$4.8  million  less  than  that  of 
2017.

Profit before Taxation

Pre-tax  profit  for  the  year  was  US$134.1  million  compared  with  last  year  of  US$159.9  million.  Despite  that  there  was  US$103.7 
million  increase  in  earnings  by  the  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  segment,  the  earnings  by  the  Other  Activities  segment 
dropped by US$75.0 million due to fair value loss on portfolio investments, net foreign exchange loss and one-off professional fees. 
The increase in finance cost led to further drop in current year profit.

Discontinued Operation

On 6th July 2018, the Group entered into the National Security Agreement pursuant to which the Group and COSCO SHIPPING 
Holdings  Co.,  Ltd.  committed  to  divest  the  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  (“U.S.  Terminal  Business”).  The  proposed  sale  of 
the  U.S.  Terminal  Business  is  accounted  for  as  discontinued  operation  under  HKFRS  5  “Non-current  assets  held  for  sale  and 
discontinued operations”. Analysis of the results, cash flows, assets and liabilities of the U.S. Terminal Business is presented in note 
16 to the consolidated financial statements.

4141

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Financial Review

Capital Expenditure

US$’000

Container vessels and capitalised dry-docking costs

Vessels under construction

Containers and chassis

Terminal equipment

Vehicles, furniture, computer and other equipment

Computer software

Investment property

2018

30,794

31,935

301,646

23,745

22,557

1,724

500

2017

Change

18,091

297,264

227,934

45,295

16,668

6,874

6,564

12,703

(265,329)

73,712

(21,550)

5,889

(5,150)

(6,064)

412,901

618,690

(205,789)

Increase/

(decrease)

 %

70%

(89%)

32%

(48%)

35%

(75%)

(92%)

(33%)

Capital expenditure decreased from US$618.7 million in 2017 to US$412.9 million in 2018. Vessels under construction accounted 

for  8%  and  48%  of  the  total  capital  expenditure  in  2018  and  2017  respectively  while  capital  outlays  on  container  equipment 

increased from 37% of 2017 to 73% in 2018.

Vessels

In 2018, the Group took delivery of the sixth (and the last) 21,413 TEU vessel from Samsung Heavy Industries, Korea. No further 

newbuilding order was placed during the year.

42

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
Review of Consolidated Balance Sheet

Summary of Consolidated Balance Sheet

US$’000
Property, plant and equipment
Investment property and prepayments of  

lease premiums

Joint ventures and associated companies
Intangible assets
Liquid assets
Accounts receivable and other assets
Assets held for sale
Other non-current assets

TOTAL ASSETS
Accounts payable and other liabilities
Current taxation

TOTAL ASSETS LESS TRADING LIABILITIES
Long-term borrowings
Current portion of long-term borrowings

Total debt
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified  

as held for sale
Deferred liabilities
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

CAPITAL EMPLOYED
Debt to equity ratio
Net debt to equity ratio
Accounts payable as a % of revenue
Accounts receivable as a % of revenue
% return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Net asset value per ordinary share (US$)
Liquid assets per ordinary share (US$)
Share price at 31st December (US$)
Price to book ratio based on share price  

at 31st December

Property, Plant and Equipment

US$’000

Vessels
Containers and chassis
Terminal equipment
Land and buildings
Others

Financial Review

Change

(371,400)

39,480
(11,057)
(16,776)
(287,660)
45,519
472,732
113,726

(15,436)
(114,619)
433

(129,622)
(234,191)
(122,236)

(356,427)

141,048
33,140
52,617

(129,622)

2018

2017

5,880,057

6,251,457

317,452
148,616
32,428
2,246,803
799,464
472,732
156,308

10,053,860
(862,405)
(7,494)

9,183,961
3,695,834
501,922

277,972
159,673
49,204
2,534,463
753,945
–
42,582

10,069,296
(747,786)
(7,927)

9,313,583
3,930,025
624,158

4,197,756

4,554,183

141,048
110,027
4,735,130

9,183,961
0.89
0.41
12.75
9.65
2.30
7.57
3.59
6.79

–
76,887
4,682,513

9,313,583
0.97
0.43
12.38
9.86
2.99
7.48
4.05
9.67

0.90

1.29

2018

4,275,875
1,471,264
51,346
30,502
51,070

2017

4,445,780
1,296,348
423,618
33,650
52,061

5,880,057

6,251,457

Change

(169,905)
174,916
(372,272)
(3,148)
(991)

(371,400)

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(6%)

14%
(7%)
(34%)
(11%)
6%
N/M
267%

(0%)
15%
(5%)

(1%)
(6%)
(20%)

(8%)

N/M
43%
1%

(1%)

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(4%)
13%
(88%)
(9%)
(2%)

(6%)

Container Transport and Logistics remains the core business of the Group and the one in which majority of property, plant and 
equipment  is  deployed.  The  assets  largely  comprise  container  vessels,  containers,  terminal  equipment,  property  and  computer 
equipment.

4343

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

The decrease in property, plant and equipment in 2018 was mainly due to the reclassification of terminal equipment to assets held 
for sale.

Investment Property and Prepayments of Lease Premiums

US$’000

Investment property
Prepayments of lease premiums

2018

310,000
7,452

317,452

2017

270,000
7,972

277,972

Change

40,000
(520)

39,480

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

15%
(7%)

14%

Investment  property  represents  the  Group’s  commercial  building,  Wall  Street  Plaza,  in  New  York.  The  building  was  valued  at 
US$310.0 million as at the end of 2018 by an independent valuer (2017: US$270.0 million).

Joint Ventures and Associated Companies

US$’000

Joint ventures
Associated companies

2018

8,940
139,676

148,616

2017

10,833
148,840

159,673

Change

(1,893)
(9,164)

(11,057)

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(17%)
(6%)

(7%)

The  investments  in  associated  companies  comprises  minority  holdings  in  two  container  terminals  in  Tianjin  and  Ningbo.  The 
investments  in  joint  ventures  are  mainly  in  connection  with  (1)  two  container  depots  in  Qingdao  and  Vietnam,  and  (2)  two 
shipping agencies in the Middle East. The decrease in the investment value in joint ventures and associated companies for 2018 
was a result of depreciation of Renminbi and dividends received.

Intangible Assets

US$’000

Opening balances
Additions
Disposal
Amortisation

Closing balances

2018

49,204
1,724
(657)
(17,843)

2017

60,143
6,874
(6,690)
(11,123)

32,428

49,204

Change

(10,939)
(5,150)
6,033
(6,720)

(16,776)

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(18%)
(75%)
(90%)
60%

(34%)

Intangible assets mainly represent internally generated capitalised computer software development costs which are amortised over 
their useful lives, with a maximum of five years.

44

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Liquid Assets

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics

Other Activities

Cash and portfolio funds

Investments at amortised cost/  

held-to-maturity investments

2018

585,199

54,361

2017

388,187

46,700

Change

197,012

7,661

1,384,284

1,864,647

(480,363)

222,959

234,929

(11,970)

Total liquid assets

2,246,803

2,534,463

(287,660)

Increase/

(decrease)

 %

51%

16%

(26%)

(5%)

(11%)

The  Group  adopts  a  central  treasury  system  under  which  a  part  of  the  funds  surplus  to  planned  requirements  is  set  aside  for 

portfolio investments in fixed income bonds or equities managed by in-house managers under guidelines imposed by the Board.

The Group’s investment portfolios are largely invested in US dollar bonds, short-term cash deposits or similar instruments, and 

listed equities. No investments are made in derivative investment products.

Investments at amortised cost/held-to-maturity investments are entirely bonds intended to be held until maturity.

The Group’s total liquid assets at the end of 2017 and 2018 are further analyzed as follows:

US$’000

Cash and bank balances

Restricted bank balances

Portfolio investments

Investments at amortised cost/ 

held-to-maturity investments

2018

2017

Change

1,584,465

1,940,975

(356,510)

61,122

378,257

63,839

294,720

(2,717)

83,537

222,959

234,929

(11,970)

Total liquid assets

2,246,803

2,534,463

(287,660)

Accounts Receivable and Other Assets

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics

Other Activities

2018

752,806

46,658

2017

683,984

69,961

Change

68,822

(23,303)

799,464

753,945

45,519

Increase/

(decrease)

 %

(18%)

(4%)

28%

(5%)

(11%)

Increase/

(decrease)

 %

10%

(33%)

6%

4545

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Accounts receivable and other assets for Container Transport and Logistics increased by US$68.8 million to US$752.8 million at 
the end of 2018. The increase was mainly attributable to the higher revenue achieved for the year.

Ageing Analysis of Trade Receivables

2017

7%

3%

2018

19%

4%

90%

77%

Below 1 month

2-3 months

Over 3 months

Accounts Payable and Other Liabilities

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Others Activities

2018

847,083
15,322

862,405

2017

742,103
5,683

747,786

Change

104,980
9,639

114,619

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

14%
170%

15%

Accounts payable and other liabilities at the end of 2018 were US$114.6 million higher than that of 2017, mainly due to increase in 
cost provisions to cope with growth in business volume.

Ageing Analysis of Trade Payables

2017

2018

18%

4%

39%

4%

78%

57%

Below 1 month

2-3 months

Over 3 months

46

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
Total Debt

US$’000

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations

Financial Review

2018

1,758,977
2,438,779

2017

2,097,422
2,456,761

Change

(338,445)
(17,982)

4,197,756

4,554,183

(356,427)

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(16%)
(1%)

(8%)

Total debt decreased by US$356.4 million compared with 2017, as a result of repayment of bank loans during the year.

Total scheduled debt repayment between 2019 and 2023 is US$2,860.6 million, being equivalent to 68% of the total outstanding 
debt  as  at  31st  December  2018.  Details  of  the  repayment  profile  of  the  Group’s  borrowings  are  set  out  in  Note  39  to  the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Debt Profile

As at the end of 2018, 100% (2017: 100%) of the Group’s total debt was denominated in US dollar which effectively eliminated the 
risk of exchange fluctuations.

Of  the  total  US$4,197.8  million  debt  outstanding  at  the  end  of  2018,  US$871.8  million  was  fixed-rate  debt  and  the  remaining 
US$3,326.0  million  was  subject  to  floating  interest  rates  at  various  competitive  spreads  over  one-month  to  six-month  LIBOR 
(or equivalent) and mainly related to the financing of vessels and container equipment. The Group’s average cost of debt at 31st 
December 2018 was 3.7% (2017: 2.9%).

Net Debt to Equity Ratio

This ratio changed to 0.41: 1 as at the end of 2018 from 0.43: 1 as at the end of 2017 mainly due to decrease in net debts in 2018. 
This  ratio  will  be  closely  monitored  in  the  light  of  business  forecasts.  It  is  the  Group’s  objective  to  keep  this  key  ratio  below  a 
threshold of 1.0.

Net Debt to Equity Ratio

Ratio

0.40

0.20

0.00

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Shareholders’ Equity

As  at  31st  December  2018,  the  Company  had  625,793,297  shares  in  issue,  consisting  entirely  of  ordinary  shares.  With  profit 
recorded for the year, the Group’s consolidated shareholders’ equity increased by US$52.6 million to US$4,735.1 million as at the 
end of 2018 with a net asset value per ordinary share of US$7.57 (2017: US$7.48). Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity 
is a key measure for the Group’s objective to continuously enhance shareholders’ value. In 2018, this ratio dropped slightly to 2.3% 
(2017: 3.0%).

4747

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Operating Leases and Commitments

In  addition  to  the  owned  operating  assets,  the  Group  employs  assets  through  operating  lease  arrangements  as  detailed  in  Note 
44(b)  to  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements.  Assets  under  operating  lease  arrangements  consist  primarily  of  container  boxes 
and container vessels.

As  at  the  end  of  2018,  the  Group  had  outstanding  capital  commitments  amounting  to  US$91.6  million,  representing  mostly  the 
outstanding orders for containers and terminal equipment.

Analysis of Change in Liquid Assets

US$’000

Net inflow from operations

Other inflow:

Interest and investment income
Sale of property, plant and equipment and 

investments
New financing
Cash from joint ventures and associated companies
Fair value gain on financial assets at fair value 

through profit or loss

Others

Other outflow:

Interest and financing charges paid
Dividends paid to shareholders
Taxation paid
Increase in property, plant and equipment 
investments, and non-current assets

Loan repayments
Fair value loss on financial assets at fair value  

through profit or loss

Net (outflow)/inflow
Beginning liquid asset balances
Cash and cash equivalents of disposal group  

classified as held for sale
Changes in exchange rates

Ending liquid asset balances

Represented by:

Unrestricted bank balances and deposits
Restricted bank balances and deposits
Portfolio investments
Investments at amortised cost/ 
held-to-maturity investments

48

2018

597,760

2017

470,694

Change

127,066

66,373

56,206

10,167

34,745
475,920
19,852

–
11,771

66,969
1,106,882
11,288

4,713
13,280

(32,224)
(630,962)
8,564

(4,713)
(1,509)

608,661

1,259,338

(650,677)

(129,261)
–
(15,837)

(495,549)
(773,827)

(90,095)
(13,388)
(10,241)

(481,729)
(788,914)

(19,500)

–

(1,433,974)

(1,384,367)

(227,553)
2,534,463

345,665
2,186,946

(53,733)
(6,374)

–
1,852

(39,166)
13,388
(5,596)

(13,820)
15,087

(19,500)

(49,607)

(573,218)
347,517

(53,733)
(8,226)

2,246,803

2,534,463

(287,660)

1,584,465
61,122
378,257

1,940,975
63,839
294,720

(356,510)
(2,717)
83,537

222,959

234,929

(11,970)

2,246,803

2,534,463

(287,660)

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

27%

18%

(48%)
(57%)
76%

N/M
(11%)

(52%)

(43%)
N/M
(55%)

(3%)
2%

N/M

(4%)

N/M
16%

N/M
N/M

(11%)

(18%)
(4%)
28%

(5%)

(11%)

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

A  net  outflow  of  US$227.6  million  was  recorded  in  2018  compared  with  a  net  inflow  of  US$345.7  million  in  2017.  Operating 

inflow  of  US$597.8  million  for  the  year  was  US$127.1  million  higher  than  that  of  2017  with  improved  operating  results.  The 

capital  payments  in  2018  mainly  reflected  the  scheduled  stage  payments  arranged  for  the  ordered  vessels  and  the  acquisition  of 

container and terminal equipment. The less drawdowns in 2018 also reflected decrease in financing of vessels delivered and less 

financing made in relation to acquisition of equipment during the year. Total liquid asset balances decreased to US$2,246.8 million 

at the end of 2018, against US$2,534.5 million in 2017.

Liquidity

As  at  31st  December  2018,  the  Group  had  total  liquid  asset  balances  of  US$2,246.8  million  compared  with  debt  obligations  of 

US$501.9 million repayable in 2019. Total current assets at the end of 2018 amounted to US$3,247.2 million against total current 

liabilities of US$1,512.9 million. The Group’s shareholders’ equity contains no loan capital. The Group from time to time prepares 

and updates cashflow forecasts for asset acquisitions, to serve project development requirements, as well as working capital needs, 

from  time  to  time  with  the  objective  of  maintaining  a  proper  balance  between  a  conservative  liquidity  level  and  an  effective 

investment of surplus funds.

4949

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Board of Directors

Board of Directors

Mr. Xu Lirong, aged 61, has been an Executive Director and the Chairman 
of the Board of Directors of the Company, and the chairman of the Executive 
Committee  and  the  Nomination  Committee  of  the  Company  since  3rd 
August 2018. He is also a director, the chairman of the board and a member 
of  the  Executive  Committee  of  Orient  Overseas  Container  Line  Limited,  a 
wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  the  Company,  since  3rd  August  2018.  Mr.  Xu 
holds  an  MBA  degree  from  Shanghai  Maritime  University  and  is  a  senior 
engineer.  Mr.  Xu  is  currently  the  chairman  of  the  board  and  the  Party 
Secretary  of  China  COSCO  SHIPPING  Corporation  Limited  (an  indirect 
controlling  shareholder  of  the  Company),  and  has  been  appointed  as  an 
executive  director  and  the  chairman  of  the  board  of  directors  of  COSCO 
SHIPPING  Holdings  Co.,  Ltd.  (an  intermediate  holding  company  of  the 
Company  and  listed  in  both  Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong)  since  30th  August 
2018. Mr. Xu started his career in March 1975, and he had been the deputy 
head of Ship Management Department, the assistant to the general manager, 
the  deputy  general  manager  and  the  general  manager  of  Shanghai  Ocean 
Shipping Co., Ltd., the deputy manager, the manager and the Party Secretary 
of  COSCO  Shanghai  Freight  Forwarding  Company,  the  president  and  the 
Party  Secretary  of  Shanghai  Shipping  Exchange,  the  general  manager,  a 
member of the Party Committee and the deputy Party Secretary of COSCO 
SHIPPING  Lines  Co.,  Ltd.,  the  deputy  general  manager,  a  member  of  the 
Party Committee and the deputy secretary of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings 
Co.,  Ltd.,  the  vice  president,  the  chairman  of  labour  union  and  a  member 
of  the  Party  Committee  of  China  Ocean  Shipping  Company  Limited,  the 
director,  the  general  manager,  a  member  of  the  Party  Committee,  the 
chairman  of  the  board  and  the  Party  Secretary  of  China  Shipping  Group 
Company Limited.

Mr.  Huang  Xiaowen,  aged  56,  has  been  an  Executive  Director  and  the  Chief  Executive 
Officer  of  the  Company,  and  a  member  of  the  Executive  Committee  and  the  chairman 
of the Inside Information Committee and the Risk Committee of the Company since 3rd 
August  2018.  He  is  also  a  director  of  certain  subsidiaries  of  the  Company.  Mr.  Huang 
holds an EMBA degree from China Europe International Business School and is a senior 
engineer.  Mr.  Huang  is  currently  the  deputy  general  manager  and  a  Party  Committee 
member of China COSCO SHIPPING Corporation Limited (“China COSCO SHIPPING”, 
an indirect controlling shareholder of the Company), the vice chairman and an executive 
director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  Co.,  Ltd.  (an  intermediate  holding  company 
of  the  Company  and  listed  in  both  Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong),  the  chairman  of  the 
board  of  directors  and  a  non-executive  director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Ports  Limited  (a 
company  listed  in  Hong  Kong),  the  chairman  of  the  board  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines 
Co.,  Ltd.,  the  chairman  of  the  board  and  an  executive  director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING 
Energy  Transportation  Co.,  Ltd.  (a  company  listed  in  both  Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong), 
the chairman of the board of COSCO SHIPPING Bulk Co., Ltd., and a director of certain 
subsidiaries  of  China  COSCO  SHIPPING.  Mr.  Huang  started  his  career  in  1981,  and 
he  had  been  the  section  chief  of  the  container  shipping  section  of  Guangzhou  Ocean 
Shipping Company Limited, the general manager of container transportation department 
of  China  Ocean  Shipping  Company  Limited,  the  container  business  advisor  of  Shanghai 
Haixing  Shipping  Co.,  Ltd.,  the  deputy  general  manager,  the  managing  director  and  the 
deputy  Party  Secretary  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Development  Co.,  Ltd.,  the  chairman  of 
China  Shipping  Haisheng  Co.,  Ltd.,  the  deputy  general  manager  and  a  member  of  the 
Party Committee of China Shipping Group Company Limited. Mr. Huang has more than 
30 years of experience in the shipping industry.

Xu Lirong

Huang Xiaowen

50

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Board of Directors

Mr.  Wang  Haimin,  aged  46,  has  been  an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company  and 
a  member  of  the  Executive  Committee,  the  Finance  Committee,  the  Compliance 
Committee, the Inside Information Committee and the Risk Committee of the Company 
since  3rd  August  2018.  He  has  been  a  director,  the  co-Chief  Executive  Officer  and  a 
member  of  the  Executive  Committee  of  Orient  Overseas  Container  Line  Limited,  a 
wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  the  Company,  since  3rd  August  2018.  He  is  also  a  director 
of  certain  subsidiaries  of  the  Company.  Mr.  Wang  holds  a  master  degree  in  business 
administration  from  Fudan  University  and  is  an  engineer.  Mr.  Wang  is  currently  an 
executive  director,  the  general  manager  and  the  deputy  Party  Secretary  of  COSCO 
SHIPPING  Holdings  Co.,  Ltd.  (“COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings”,  an  intermediate  holding 
company  of  the  Company  and  listed  in  both  Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong),  a  director  of 
China COSCO SHIPPING Corporation Limited (“China COSCO SHIPPING”, an indirect 
controlling  shareholder  of  the  Company),  the  managing  director  and  the  deputy  Party 
Secretary of COSCO SHIPPING Lines Co., Ltd. (“COSCO SHIPPING Lines”), and a non-
executive  director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Ports  Limited  (“COSCO  SHIPPING  Ports”,  a 
company listed in Hong Kong). Mr. Wang had been the head of planning and cooperation 
department  of  the  strategic  planning  division,  the  deputy  general  manager  of  the 
corporation  planning  division  and  the  general  manager  of  the  strategy  and  development 
division of COSCO SHIPPING Lines, the general manager of the transportation division 
of  China  COSCO  SHIPPING,  the  deputy  general  manager  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Ports 
(person  in  charge),  the  deputy  general  manager  (person  in  charge),  the  deputy  Party 
Secretary  and  the  general  manager  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines,  and  the  deputy  general 
manager  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings.  Mr.  Wang  has  over  20  years  of  experience  in 
corporate management in the shipping industry. He has extensive experience in container 
shipping, operation of terminal and enterprise management.

Mr. Zhang Wei, aged 45, has been an Executive Director of the Company and a member 
of  the  Executive  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee,  the  Inside  Information 
Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company  since  3rd  August  2018.  Mr.  Zhang 
holds  a  master  degree  in  management  from  Fudan  University  and  is  an  engineer.  Mr. 
Zhang is currently the vice chairman of the board of directors, an executive director and 
the  general  manager  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Ports  Limited  (a  company  listed  in  Hong 
Kong),  and  an  executive  director  and  deputy  general  manager  of  COSCO  SHIPPING 
Holdings Co., Ltd. (an intermediate holding company of the Company and listed in both 
Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong),  and  a  non-executive  director  of  Qingdao  Port  International 
Co.,  Ltd.  (a  company  listed  in  Hong  Kong).  Mr.  Zhang  had  been  the  executive  deputy 
general  manager  of  the  American  trade  division  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines  Co.,  Ltd. 
(“COSCON”),  the  deputy  general  manager  of  the  American  Branch  of  COSCON,  the 
general  manager  of  the  strategy  and  development  division  of  COSCON,  the  general 
manager of the transportation division, the general manager of the operating management 
division and the executive deputy director of the integration management office of China 
Ocean  Shipping  Company  Limited/COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  Co.,  Ltd.  Mr.  Zhang 
has  over  20  years  of  work  experience  in  the  shipping  industry.  He  has  extensive  work 
experience in container shipping, strategic planning and enterprise management.

Wang Haimin

Zhang Wei

5151

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Board of Directors

Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew

Yan Jun

Wang Dan

52

Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew, aged 54, has been an Executive Director of the Company 
since  2nd  November  2011  and  is  a  member  of  the  Executive  Committee,  the  Finance 
Committee, the Inside Information Committee and the Risk Committee of the Company. 
He  has  been  a  Director  and  a  member  of  the  Executive  Committee  of  Orient  Overseas 
Container  Line  Limited  (“OOCLL”),  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  the  Company,  since 
March  2006.  He  was  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  Senior  Managing  Director  of 
OOCLL  from  1st  July  2012  to  2nd  August  2018,  and  has  been  re-designated  to  co-Chief 
Executive  Officer  of  OOCLL  since  3rd  August  2018.  He  is  also  a  director  of  various 
subsidiaries of the Company. Between 1993 and 1998, he has served the Group in various 
capacities  including  Director  of  Reefer  Trade  of  OOCLL.  The  last  position  Mr.  Tung 
held  in  Hong  Kong  Dragon  Airlines  Limited  prior  to  joining  OOCLL  in  2006  was  the 
Chief  Operating  Officer.  Mr.  Tung  holds  a  Bachelor  degree  from  Princeton  University 
and  a  Master  of  Business  Administration  degree  from  Stanford  University  in  the  USA. 
Mr.  Tung  is  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  Cathay  Pacific  Airways  Limited 
(a  company  listed  in  Hong  Kong)  and  Standard  Chartered  Bank  (Hong  Kong)  Limited. 
He  is  currently  a  member  of  the  Hong  Kong  Logistics  Development  Council,  a  member 
of  the  Hong  Kong  Maritime  and  Port  Board,  the  Chairman  of  the  Maritime  and  Port 
Development Committee; and a member of the Chief Executive’s Council of Advisers on 
Innovation and Strategic Development since 21st March 2018. He was the Vice-Chairman 
of the International Chamber of Commerce Commission for Transport & Logistics and a 
member of the Executive Committee of Hong Kong Shipowners Association.

Mr. Yan Jun, aged 51, has been a Non-Executive Director of the Company and a member 
of the Nomination Committee and the Risk Committee of the Company since 3rd August 
2018.  Mr.  Yan  holds  an  MBA  Degree  in  Business  Management  from  Antai  College  of 
Economics  and  Management  of  Shanghai  Jiaotong  University.  Mr.  Yan  is  currently  Vice 
Secretary of the CPC Committee, Board Director and President of Shanghai International 
Port  (Group)  Co.,  Ltd.  (“SIPG”)  (a  company  listed  in  Shanghai).  Mr.  Yan  had  been  a 
Member of the CPC Committee of Shanghai Port Container Terminal Co., Ltd (“SPCT”); 
Branch  Secretary  of  the  CPC  Committee  and  General  Manager  of  SPCT,  Waigaoqiao 
Terminal  Branch;  Secretary  of  the  CPC  Committee  and  General  Manager  of  SIPG 
Zhendong Container Terminal Branch; Secretary of the CPC Committee, Board Director 
and General Manager of SIPG Jiujiang Port Co., Ltd; Assistant to President, Vice Secretary 
of the CPC Committee, and Vice President of SIPG.

Ms.  Wang  Dan,  aged  49,  has  been  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  and  a 
member  of  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company  since  3rd  August  2018.  Ms.  Wang 
holds a master degree in International Finance from the Graduate School of the People’s 
Bank  of  China,  now  known  as  Tsinghua  University  PBC  School  of  Finance.  Ms.  Wang 
is  an  Executive  Vice  President  of  the  Silk  Road  Fund  Co.,  Ltd.  (“SRF”)  and  a  director  of 
SIBUR Holding (a public joint stock company in Russia with its bonds traded on Moscow 
Exchange).  Ms.  Wang  had  worked  at  the  International  Department  and  the  Monetary 
Policy  Department  II  of  the  People’s  Bank  of  China  (PBOC),  and  also  served  as  an 
advisor to the Executive Director for China of PBOC at the International Monetary Fund. 
Before  joining  SRF,  she  served  as  the  Deputy  Director-General  of  the  Monetary  Policy 
Department II of PBOC.

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Board of Directors

Mr.  Ip  Sing  Chi,  aged  65,  has  been  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  and  a 
member  of  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company  since  3rd  August  2018.  Mr.  Ip  holds 
a  bachelor  of  Arts  degree.  He  is  currently  the  Group  Managing  Director  of  Hutchison 
Port  Holdings  Limited  and  the  chairman  of  Yantian  International  Container  Terminals 
Limited.  He  is  also  an  executive  director  of  Hutchison  Port  Holdings  Management 
Pte.  Limited  (the  trustee-manager  of  Hutchison  Port  Holdings  Trust  which  is  listed  in 
Singapore),  an  independent  non-executive  director,  the  chairman  of  the  Remuneration 
and  Appraisal  Committee,  a  member  of  the  Strategy  Committee  and  the  Nomination 
Committee  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Energy  Transportation  Co.,  Ltd.  (a  company  listed  in 
both  Shanghai  and  Hong  Kong),  an  independent  non-executive  director  of  Piraeus  Port 
Authority  S.A.,  and  a  non-independent  non-executive  director  of  Westports  Holdings 
Berhad (a company listed in Malaysia). Mr. Ip was the founding chairman (in 2000-2001) 
of the Hong Kong Container Terminal Operators Association Limited, and he had been an 
outside director of Hyundai Merchant Marine Co., Ltd. (a company listed in Korea), and 
an independent non-executive director of COSCO SHIPPING Ports Limited (a company 
listed in Hong Kong). Mr. Ip has over 35 years of experience in the maritime industry.

Ip Sing Chi

Ms.  Cui  Hongqin,  aged  45,  has  been  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  and  a 
member of the Risk Committee of the Company since 3rd August 2018. Ms. Cui holds a 
bachelor  degree  in  Economics  from  Shanxi  University  of  Economics  and  Management, 
and  is  a  senior  accountant  and  certified  public  accountant.  She  is  currently  the  deputy 
director  of  the  Finance  Department  of  State  Development  &  Investment  Corp.,  Ltd.,  a 
director and the general manager of Rongshi International Holding Company Limited, a 
director and the general manager of SDIC Finance Leasing Co., Ltd. Ms. Cui held various 
positions  in  State  Development  and  Investment  Corporation,  including  assistant  to  the 
director  of  the  Finance  and  Accounts  Department,  head  of  the  Funds  Department,  the 
deputy  director,  the  deputy  director  (person  in  charge)  and  the  business  head  of  the 
Accounts  Department,  and  the  senior  business  manager  of  the  Planning  and  Finance 
Department.

Cui Hongqin

Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  aged  71,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director 
of  the  Company  since  2nd  January  2015.  He  is  the  chairman  of  the  Remuneration 
Committee  and  a  member  of  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Nomination  Committee,  the 
Finance  Committee,  the  Share  Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company.  He 
was  an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company  from  1st  December  2003  to  30th  June  2012, 
a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  from  1st  July  2012  to  1st  January  2015  and  a 
consultant of the Company from 1st July 2012 to 31st December 2014. Mr. Chow holds a 
Bachelor of Science degree in Chemistry and Physics from the University of Hong Kong 
and  a  Master  of  Business  Administration  degree  from  the  Chinese  University  of  Hong 
Kong. He did not hold directorships in any other public companies listed in Hong Kong 
and overseas in the last three years.

Chow Philip Yiu Wah

5353

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Board of Directors

Wong Yue Chim Richard

Chung Shui Ming Timpson

54

Professor  Wong  Yue  Chim  Richard,  aged  66,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive 
Director  of  the  Company  since  December  2003.  He  is  the  chairman  of  the  Audit 
Committee  and  a  member  of  the  Remuneration  Committee  of  the  Company.  He 
graduated  from  University  of  Chicago  with  Bachelor’s,  Master’s  and  Ph.D.  degrees  in 
Economics  and  is  Chair  of  Economics  at  The  University  of  Hong  Kong.  He  has  been 
active  in  advancing  economic  research  on  policy  issues  in  Hong  Kong  and  China.  He 
was  awarded  the  Silver  Bauhinia  Star  in  1999  by  the  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  for  his  contributions  in  education,  housing,  industry 
and  technology  development.  He  was  appointed  Justice  of  the  Peace  in  July  2000. 
Professor  Wong  is  currently  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  three  other 
listed  companies  in  Hong  Kong,  namely  Great  Eagle  Holdings  Limited,  Pacific  Century 
Premium Developments Limited and Sun Hung Kai Properties Limited. He was formerly 
an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  CK  Life  Sciences  Int’l.,  (Holdings)  Inc.,  a 
company listed in Hong Kong, and Link Asset Management Limited, the manager of Link 
Real Estate Investment Trust, a unit trust listed in Hong Kong.

Dr.  Chung  Shui  Ming  Timpson, GBS, JP,  aged  67,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-
Executive  Director  of  the  Company  and  the  chairman  of  the  Finance  Committee  and  a 
member of the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee of the Company since 
3rd  August  2018.  Dr.  Chung  holds  a  bachelor  of  Science  degree  from  the  University  of 
Hong  Kong,  a  master  degree  in  Business  Administration  from  the  Chinese  University  of 
Hong  Kong  and  a  honorary  doctoral  degree  in  Social  Sciences  from  the  City  University 
of  Hong  Kong.  He  is  a  fellow  member  of  The  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified  Public 
Accountants.  Dr.  Chung  is  currently  an  independent  non-executive  director  of  China 
Everbright Limited, China Overseas Grand Oceans Group Limited, China Unicom (Hong 
Kong)  Limited,  Glorious  Sun  Enterprises  Limited,  Jinmao  Hotel  and  Jinmao  (China) 
Hotel  Investments  and  Management  Limited,  Miramar  Hotel  and  Investment  Company, 
Limited  (all  listed  on  the  Hong  Kong  Stock  Exchange);  and  China  Construction  Bank 
Corporation  and  China  Railway  Group  Limited  (both  listed  on  the  Stock  Exchanges  in 
both  Hong  Kong  and  Shanghai);  and  an  external  director  of  China  COSCO  SHIPPING 
Corporation  Limited  (an  indirect  controlling  shareholder  of  the  Company).  Dr.  Chung 
had been an audit supervisor I of Coopers & Lybrand, an independent director of China 
State  Construction  Engineering  Corporation  Limited  (listed  on  the  Shanghai  Stock 
Exchange),  an  independent  non-executive  director  of  Henderson  Land  Development 
Company  Limited  (listed  on  the  Hong  Kong  Stock  Exchange),  the  chairman  of  China 
Business  of  Jardine  Fleming  Holdings  Limited  and  the  deputy  chief  executive  officer 
of  BOC  International  Limited.  Dr.  Chung  is  currently  a  member  of  the  13th  National 
Committee  of  the  Chinese  People’s  Political  Consultative  Conference  and  a  Pro-
Chancellor  of  the  City  University  of  Hong  Kong.  He  had  also  served  many  public 
organizations, including the chairman of the Council of the City University of Hong Kong, 
the chairman of the Hong Kong Housing Society and a member of the Executive Council 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Board of Directors

Mr.  Yang  Liang  Yee  Philip,  aged  70,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director 

of  the  Company  and  the  chairman  of  the  Share  Committee  and  a  member  of  the  Audit 

Committee and the Nomination Committee of the Company since 3rd August 2018. Mr. 

Yang is currently an independent non-executive director of COSCO SHIPPING Holdings 

Co., Ltd. (an intermediate holding company of the Company and listed in both Shanghai 

and  Hong  Kong).  He  is  a  full  time  arbitrator  in  international  commercial  and  maritime 

arbitration,  the  Honorary  Chairman  of  Hong  Kong  International  Arbitration  Centre, 

the  member  of  the  International  Advisory  Board  of  China  International  Economic  and 

Trade  Arbitration  Commission,  the  Asian  International  Arbitration  Centre  in  Malaysia 

and  the  Korean  Commercial  Arbitration  Board,  the  member  of  the  General  Committee 

of  Singapore  Chamber  of  Maritime  Arbitration.  Mr.  Yang  had  been  the  chairman  of 

Hong  Kong  International  Arbitration  Centre,  the  vice  Chairman  of  the  Documentary 

Committee  of  the  Baltic  International  Maritime  Council  in  Denmark,  the  President 

Yang Liang Yee Philip

of  Asia-Pacific  Regional  Arbitration  Group,  the  Hong  Kong  representative  of  ICC 

International Court of Arbitration, the Chairman of the East Asia branch of the Chartered 

Institute  of  Arbitrators.  Mr.  Yang  has  extensive  experience  in  dealing  with  cases  related 

to  international  commercial,  maritime  and  trade  law  and  is  very  familiar  with  laws 

and  practice  in  such  areas.  He  acts  as  an  arbitrator  in  Hong  Kong,  London,  Singapore, 

Malaysia, Australia, Austria, Korea, the USA and the PRC and has published/issued over 

600  arbitration  awards  in  the  past  over  30  years  as  a  sole  or  co-arbitrator.  He  has  also 

published many books and articles on international commercial, maritime and trade law 

and  practice.  Mr.  Yang  also  devoted  himself  to  the  educational  activities  in  various  law 

schools  in  Hong  Kong  and  Mainland  China  and  is  a  visiting  professor  in  more  than  ten 

universities.

Ms.  Chen  Ying,  aged  48,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the 

Company and a member of the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee and the Share 

Committee  of  the  Company  since  3rd  August  2018.  Ms.  Chen  holds  a  master  degree  in 

Business  Administration  from  Fudan  University,  MBA  (Finance  and  Finance  major)  in 

Maastricht college in Netherland and graduated from the Finance Department of Renmin 

University of China. She has qualified as a certified public accountant in Australia, CIMA 

(registered  management  accountant)  and  a  senior  accountant  in  China.  Ms.  Chen  had 

been  the  vice  chairman  of  Shanghai  Chongyang  Investment  Co.,  Ltd.  from  March  2016 

to  June  2018.  During  the  period  from  1993  to  2016,  she  had  been  the  deputy  general 

manager  and  the  secretary  of  the  board  of  directors  of  Baoshan  Iron  Steel  Co.,  Ltd, 

the  secretary  of  the  board  of  directors,  the  assistant  general  manager  and  the  deputy 

general  manager  of  the  Baosteel  Group  Co.,  Ltd.  Ms.  Chen  has  more  than  twenty  years’ 

experience in financial management of large enterprises, more than ten years’ experience 

Chen Ying

as top executives in the top 500 of the world companies and has extensive experience in 

corporate finance and accounting management, capital market communication, corporate 

governance, internal control and risk management.

5555

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Senior Management 

Senior Management 

Xiang Chen

Erxin Yao

Ms.  Chen,  aged  55,  has  been  the  Director  and  a  member  of 
Executive  Committee  of  OOCL  and  was  also  appointed  the 
Director  of  Strategy  Coordination  since  August  2018.  She 
started  her  career  in  1985  and  served  successively  as  Deputy 
Manager,  Manager,  Deputy  General  Manager  of  Marketing 
Division,  General  Manager  of  Business  and  Process  System 
Division  of  COSCON.  She  was  a  Deputy  Managing  Director 
of  COSCON  from  2006  to  2016,  and  has  been  the  Deputy 
Managing  Director  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Lines  since  2016. 
Ms.  Chen  graduated  from  Shanghai  Maritime  University, 
majoring  in  Transportation  and  Management.  She  has  a 
Master’s degree and the qualification of Senior Economist.

Mr.  Yao,  aged  62,  has  been  the  Director  and  a  member  of 
Executive  Committee  of  OOCL  since  January  2010,  and  the 
Director of Corporate Planning and Corporate Administration 
since  January  2013.  He  joined  the  Group  in  1993  and  has 
served  the  Group  in  various  capacities  for  25  years,  including 
as  Executive  Vice-President  and  Head  of  Corporate  Services 
of  OOCL  Logistics  in  Hong  Kong,  Managing  Director  of 
Orient  Overseas  Container  Line  (China)  Co.,  Ltd.  and  OOCL 
Logistics  (China)  Limited  based  in  Shanghai,  and  President 
of  OOCL  (USA)  Inc.  Mr.  Yao  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Arts  from 
Toronto/Fudan  University  joint  program  and  a  Master  of 
International Affairs from Columbia University.

Stephen Ng

Mingwen Zhang

Mr.  Ng,  aged  60,  has  been  the  Director  and  a  member  of 
Executive  Committee  of  OOCL  since  August  2010,  and  the 
Director  of  Trades  since  July  2012.  He  is  also  the  official 
spokesperson  for  OOCL.  Before  being  transferred  back  to 
Hong  Kong  in  2010  to  serve  as  the  Director  of  Corporate 
Planning,  he  worked  in  California  for  seven  years  as  Head 
of  Trans-Pacific  Trade.  He  joined  the  Group  in  1987  and 
has  served  in  various  capacities  for  31  years.  Mr.  Ng  holds  a 
Bachelor of Social Sciences degree from the University of Hong 
Kong and a Master of Business Administration degree from the 
Chinese University of Hong Kong.

Mr.  Zhang,  aged  41,  has  been  the  Director  and  a  member 
of  Executive  Committee  of  OOCL  since  August  2018,  and 
was  also  appointed  the  Chief  Financial  Officer  of  COSCO 
SHIPPING  Holdings,  OOIL  and  OOCL.  He  has  nearly  20 
years  of  working  experience  in  the  shipping  industry.  Mr. 
Zhang graduated from the Faculty of Finance at the Shanghai 
University of Finance and Economics, majoring in Investment 
Economics,  and  from  the  Antai  College  of  Economics  & 
Management  at  the  Shanghai  Jiao  Tong  University,  majoring 
in  Business  Administration  where  he  obtained  a  Bachelor’s 
degree  in  Economics  and  a  Master’s  degree  in  Business 
Administration.  Mr.  Zhang  is  a  Chartered  Financial  Analyst 
(CFA) and a Senior Accountant.

56

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Senior Management 

Steve Siu

Lammy Lee

Mr.  Siu,  aged  61,  has  been  the  Director  and  a  member  of 
Executive  Committee  of  OOCL  since  November  2006  and 
was  appointed  Chief  Information  Officer.  He  was  the  Chief 
Executive  Officer  of  CargoSmart  since  January  2002.  He 
joined the Group in 1987 and has served the Group in various 
capacities for 31 years. Mr. Siu holds a Bachelor of Science and 
a Master of Science from University of Essex, UK, and a Master 
of Business Administration jointly organized by Northwestern 
University  and  the  Hong  Kong  University  of  Science  and 
Technology.

Ms.  Lee,  aged  57,  has  been  the  Director  and  a  member  of 
Executive  Committee  of  OOCL  since  April  2011.  She  was 
appointed the Company Secretary and Group Legal Advisor of 
OOIL  since  February  1997  and  Compliance  Officer  of  OOIL 
since June 2004. She joined the Group in 1988 and has served 
the  Group  in  various  capacities  for  30  years.  Ms.  Lee  holds 
a  Bachelor  of  Laws  from  Queen  Mary  College,  University  of 
London, a Barrister and member of Lincoln’s Inn and admitted 
as an advocate and solicitor of the High Court of Malaya.

Michael Fitzgerald

Kenny Ye

Mr. Fitzgerald, aged 45, has been the Director of OOCL since 
June  2018  and  a  member  of  Executive  Committee  since  2014. 
He  joined  the  group  in  September  2014  as  Group  Finance 
Director  and  has  been  the  Group  Deputy  Chief  Financial 
Officer  since  December  2015.  He  started  his  career  at  KPMG 
in London in August 1995, and having qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant,  moved  to  the  Structured  Finance  division  of 
Société Générale in January 1999, where he enjoyed an almost 
16-year  career,  holding  various  posts  in  London,  Hong  Kong 
and  Paris.  Mr.  Fitzgerald  holds  the  degrees  of  Bachelor  and 
Master of Arts from the University of Oxford, and is a Fellow 
of  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  in  England  and 
Wales.

Mr.  Ye,  aged  55,  has  been  the  Director  of  OOCL  since  June 
2018  and  was  appointed  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  OOCL 
Logistics  and  a  member  of  Executive  Committee  of  OOCL 
since  November  2015.  He  joined  the  Group  in  1994  and  has 
served the Group in various capacities for 24 years. Following 
his  assignment  in  Shanghai,  he  was  transferred  to  Hong 
Kong  in  2004  and  has  served  the  Group  in  various  capacities, 
including  as  Director  of  Asia-Europe  Trade,  Director  of 
Intra-Asia  Trade  and  the  Chief  Operating  Officer  of  OOCL 
Logistics.  Mr.  Ye  holds  a  Diploma  of  Accounting  in  Lixin 
Accounting Institute and a Master of Business Administration 
from Oklahoma City University.

5757

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Senior Management 

Raymond Fung

Teddy Fung

Mr.  Fung,  aged  60,  has  been  the  Director  of  OOCL  since 
June  2018  and  a  member  of  Executive  Committee  since 
November  2015.  He  was  appointed  Director  of  Trades  since 
January 2016 and Director of Intra-Asia Trade until 2015. Mr. 
Fung  joined  the  Group  in  1983  and  has  served  the  Group  in 
various  capacities  for  35  years,  including  as  General  Manager 
of  Operations,  Managing  Director  of  OOCL  (UAE),  Director 
of  Australia  Trade,  and  General  Manager  of  Corporate 
Methods  and  Tools.  Mr.  Fung  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Business 
Administration  General  Business  Management  from  the 
Chinese University of Hong Kong.

Mr. Fung, aged 58, has been the Director of OOCL since June 
2018  and  a  member  of  Executive  Committee  since  November 
2015.  He  was  appointed  the  Director  of  Regions  Management 
since January 2016 and Director of Corporate Operation since 
September 2013. He joined the Group in 1994 and has served 
the  Group  in  various  capacities  for  24  years,  including  as 
General  Manager  of  OOCL  South  China  sub-region,  Director 
of  Reefer  Trade,  and  Managing  Director  of  OOCL  Hong 
Kong  Branch.  Mr.  Fung  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Social  Science  in 
Economics and a Master of Arts in Transport Studies from the 
University of Hong Kong.

58

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Financial Calendar

Financial Calendar

Announcement of results for the half year ended 30th June 2018

3rd August 2018

Despatch of 2018 Interim Report to shareholders

30th August 2018

Announcement of results for the year ended 31st December 2018

22nd March 2019

Despatch of 2018 Annual Report to shareholders

25th April 2019

Closure of the Register of Members 

(to ascertain the shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting)

10th May 2019 to 

17th May 2019 

(Both days inclusive)

2018 Annual General Meeting

17th May 2019

Closure of the Register of Members 
(to ascertain the shareholders entitled to receive the proposed final dividend  
for the year ended 31st December 2018)

24th May 2019 to 
28th May 2019 
(Both days inclusive)

5959

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
Shareholder Information

Shareholder Information

ORDINARY SHARES

Issued shares
Nominal value per share
Board lot

ANNUAL REPORT

625,793,297 shares (as at 31st December 2018)
US$0.10
500 shares

This annual report is available in both English and Chinese.

Shareholders can obtain copies by writing to the Company’s Hong Kong branch share registrar:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited

17M Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong

If you are not a shareholder, please write to:

Orient Overseas (International) Limited

31st Floor, Harbour Centre

25 Harbour Road

Wanchai, Hong Kong

Attention: Company Secretary

This annual report is also available at our website at http://www.ooilgroup.com.

SHAREHOLDER SERVICES

Any  matter  relating  to  your  shareholding,  including  transfer  of  shares,  change  of  name  or  address  and  loss  of  share  certificates, 

should be addressed in writing to:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited

17M Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong

Telephone: (852) 2862 8555

Facsimile: (852) 2865 0990

SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES

Any matter relating to shareholders’ rights should be addressed in writing to:

Orient Overseas (International) Limited

31st Floor, Harbour Centre

25 Harbour Road

Wanchai, Hong Kong

Attention: Company Secretary

Our enquiry hotline is operational during normal office hours:

Telephone: (852) 2833 3888

Facsimile: (852) 2531 8147

60

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Shareholder Information

SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION

Ordinary shareholder information as at 31st December 2018:

Type of shareholders

Type of shareholders

Number

Percentage

Number

Percentage

Shareholders

Shares of US$0.10 each

Corporate

Individual

Distribution of shareholdings

Size of shareholdings

1 – 10,000

10,001 – 100,000

100,001 – 1,000,000

1,000,001 or above

18

567

585

3.0769%

96.9231%

624,731,734

1,061,563

99.8304%

0.1696%

100.00%

625,793,297

100.00%

Shareholders

Shares of US$0.10 each

Number

Percentage

Number

Percentage

568

13

1

3

585

97.0940%

2.2222%

0.1710%

0.5128%

504,009

398,203

259,000

624,632,085

0.0805%

0.0636%

0.0414%

99.8145%

100.00%

625,793,297

100.00%

Ten largest ordinary shareholders

At  31st  December  2018,  the  interests  of  the  ten  largest  ordinary  shareholders  of  the  Company,  as  recorded  in  the  Company’s 

principal register and Hong Kong branch register of members, were as follows:

Name of ordinary shareholders

ordinary shares held

Percentage

Number of 

Faulkner Global Holdings Limited

HKSCC Nominees Limited

Shanghai Port Group (BVI) Development Co., Limited

Mok Kwun Cheung

Po Leung Kuk

Fung Sun Kwan

Ho Hin Kwong

Ho Fuk Chuen

Leung Wong Kit Ling

Chow Mung Ha

315,779,045

246,899,504

61,953,536

259,000

70,500

45,022

42,454

40,000

35,000

32,420

50.46%

39.45%

9.90%

0.04%

0.01%

0.01%

0.01%

0.01%

0.01%

0.01%

6161

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

Corporate Governance Report

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE

The  Board  of  Directors  (the  “Board”)  and  the  management  of  the  Company  are  committed  to  maintaining  high  standards  of 

corporate  governance  and  the  Company  considers  that  effective  corporate  governance  makes  an  important  contribution  to 

corporate success and to the enhancement of shareholder value.

The Company has adopted its own corporate governance code (the “CG Code”), which in addition to applying the principles as set 

out in the Corporate Governance Code and Corporate Governance Report (the “SEHK Code”) contained in Appendix 14 to the 

Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”), also incorporates 

and conforms to local and international best practices. The CG Code sets out the corporate governance principles applied by the 

Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) and is constantly reviewed to ensure transparency, accountability and independence.

Throughout the year 2018, the Company complied with the SEHK Code, save for the following:

(cid:127)  Code Provision

(cid:127) 

Prior  to  3rd  August  2018,  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen,  the  ex-Chairman,  Chief  Executive  Officer,  President  and  Executive 

Director of the Company, assumed the roles of both Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. After close 

of the Offer (as defined in the composite document dated 6th July 2018) on 27th July 2018, there were changes to the 

Board composition and the Board committees and other key positions of the Group. With effect from 3rd August 2018, 

and with the appointment of Mr. Xu Lirong and Mr. Huang Xiaowen as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the 

Company respectively on the same date, the Company has complied with all the code provisions of the SEHK Code.

(cid:127)  Recommended Best Practices

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

the remuneration of senior management is disclosed in bands

operational results, instead of financial results, are announced and published quarterly

62

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Corporate Governance Report

We have set out in this report our guiding principles and rationale for implementation of the CG Code as well as the status of the 
Company’s compliance with Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules during the year 2018:

A.  BOARD OF DIRECTORS

1.  Board Composition

The Board is currently comprised of five Executive Directors, four Non-Executive Directors and five Independent Non-
Executive Directors.

Executive Directors

Mr. Xu Lirong (Chairman)
Mr. Huang Xiaowen (Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. Wang Haimin
Mr. Zhang Wei
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew

Non-Executive Directors

Mr. Yan Jun
Ms. Wang Dan
Mr. Ip Sing Chi
Ms. Cui Hongqin

Independent Non-Executive Directors

Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip
Ms. Chen Ying

The  biographical  details  of  the  Directors  are  set  out  on  the  Company’s  website  at  http://www.ooilgroup.com  and  on 
pages 50 to 55 of this annual report.

The Directors have formal letters of appointment setting out the key terms and conditions of their appointment, and are 
for a fixed term of three years and subject to re-election by rotation at least once every three years.

The  Directors  have  extensive  corporate  and  strategic  planning  experience  and  industry  knowledge.  All  Independent 
Non-Executive Directors are financially independent from the Group bringing independent and diversified experience, 
competencies, skills and judgment to the Group’s strategy and policies through their informed contributions. The Board 
considers that there is a reasonable balance between the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors and has 
provided adequate checks and balances for safeguarding the interests of the shareholders and the Group.

The  Company  has  received  from  each  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  a  written  annual  confirmation  of  their 
independence and considers that all the Independent Non-Executive Directors have satisfied their independence to the 
Group up to the date of this annual report.

During the year 2018, the Board complied with the Listing Rules’ requirement in having at least three Independent Non-
Executive  Directors  representing  at  least  one-third  of  the  Board,  including  at  least  one  with  appropriate  professional 
qualifications or accounting or related financial management expertise.

Directors’ and Officers’ Liabilities Insurance

Since  1992,  the  Company  has  arranged  insurance  cover  for  directors’  and  officers’  liabilities  including  cover  for 
Directors, officers and senior management of the Group arising out of corporate activities.

6363

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

2.  Board and Management Responsibilities

The  Board  is  responsible  for  the  overall  strategic  direction  and  management  of  the  business  and  affairs  of  the  Group 
with  the  objective  of  enhancing  shareholder  value  and  presenting  a  balanced,  clear  and  understandable  assessment  of 
the Company’s performance, position and prospects in the annual and interim reports, and announcements and other 
financial  disclosures  as  required  under  the  Listing  Rules,  and  reports  to  regulators  any  information  required  to  be 
disclosed pursuant to statutory requirements.

The Board has a fiduciary duty and statutory responsibility towards the Company and the Group. Other responsibilities 
include formulation of the Group’s overall strategies and policies, setting of corporate and management targets and key 
operational  initiatives,  setting  of  policies  on  risk  management  and  internal  control  systems  pursuant  to  the  Group’s 
strategic  objectives,  monitoring  and  control  of  operational  and  financial  performance,  and  approval  of  budgets  and 
major  capital  expenditures,  major  investments,  material  acquisitions  and  disposals  of  assets,  corporate  or  financial 
restructuring, significant operational, financial and management matters.

The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business of the Group to the management of the Group under the 
leadership  and  supervision  of  the  Chief  Executive  Officer,  who  will  organise,  execute,  implement  and  report  to  the 
Board on the adoption of the Company’s strategies, policies and objectives by the Group pursuant to the resolutions of 
the Board.

The Board also delegates certain specific responsibilities to nine committees (Executive Committee, Audit Committee, 
Remuneration  Committee,  Nomination  Committee,  Risk  Committee,  Compliance  Committee,  Finance  Committee, 
Share Committee and Inside Information Committee). The composition and functions of each committee are described 
below.  These  committees  have  specific  functions  and  authority  to  examine  issues  and  report  to  the  Board  with  their 
recommendations (if appropriate). The final decision rests with the Board, unless otherwise provided for in the terms of 
reference of the relevant committees.

The  Company  Secretary  provides  the  Directors  with  updates  on  developments  regarding  the  Listing  Rules  and  other 
applicable  regulatory  requirements.  Any  Director  may  request  the  Company  Secretary  to  organise  independent 
professional  advice  at  the  expense  of  the  Company  to  assist  the  Directors  to  effectively  discharge  their  duties  to  the 
Company. No such independent professional advice was requested by any Director in year 2018.

3.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Mr. Xu Lirong is the Chairman of the Company and Mr. Huang Xiaowen is the Chief Executive Officer of the Company 
with the respective roles set out in writing.

a.  The  primary  role  of  the  Chairman  is  to  provide  leadership  to  the  Board  and  to  ensure  that  the  Board  functions 

effectively in the discharge of its responsibilities. His duties include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

ensure that Directors are briefed and have received timely, accurate, complete and clear information on issues 
to be discussed at Board meetings;

ensure  that  the  Board  works  effectively  and  performs  its  responsibilities,  and  that  all  key  and  appropriate 
issues  are  discussed  in  a  timely  manner  and  that  good  corporate  governance  practices  and  procedures  are 
established, implemented and maintained;

approve  the  agenda  drawn  up  by  the  Company  Secretary  for  each  Board  meeting  taking  into  account  any 
matter proposed by other Directors for inclusion in the agenda;

promote  a  culture  of  openness  and  debate  by  facilitating  the  effective  contribution  of  the  Non-Executive 
Directors (including Independent Non-Executive Directors) in particular and ensuring constructive relations 
between  the  Executive  Directors  and  the  Non-Executive  Directors;  and  encourage  Directors  with  different 
views  to  voice  their  concerns,  allow  sufficient  time  for  discussion  of  issues  and  ensure  that  Board  decisions 
fairly reflect Board consensus;

64

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

hold  meetings  at  least  annually  with  the  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors  without  the  presence  of  the 
other Directors;

ensure effective communication with shareholders and that their views are communicated to the Board; and 
to

attend  the  annual  general  meetings  and  invite  the  chairmen  of  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration 
Committee, the Nomination Committee and the other Board committees, or in the absence of the chairman 
of the respective Board committees, other members of the related Board committees to be available to answer 
questions at the annual general meetings.

In case of an equality of votes at any Board meeting, the Chairman shall be entitled to a second or casting vote.

b.  The primary role of the Chief Executive Officer is to be responsible for the day-to-day management and operation 

of the business of the Group. His duties include to:

– 

provide  leadership  and  supervise  the  effective  management  of  the  Group  and  to  establish  and  review  from 
time to time the management system of the Group;

– 

set up programmes for management development and succession planning for the Group;

–  monitor and control the operational and financial performance of the Group;

– 

– 

– 

organise,  execute,  implement  and  report  to  the  Board  on  the  adoption  of  the  Company’s  strategies,  policies 
and objectives by the Group pursuant to the resolutions of the Board;

provide  information  to  the  Board  (as  necessary)  to  enable  the  Board  to  monitor  the  performance  of 
management and operation of the Group; and to

organise  the  implementation  of  the  Board’s  decision  and  implement  such  duties  as  directed  or  delegated  by 
the Board.

4.  Board Meetings

Regular Board meetings are scheduled one year in advance to maximise the attendance of Directors. The Board meets at 
least four times each year and has a formal schedule of matters referred to it for consideration and decision. Additional 
meetings may be convened as and when necessary. Notice of at least fourteen days is served for regular Board meetings 
and reasonable notice is given for all other Board meetings. Directors are consulted and provided with an opportunity 
to include matters to the agenda for discussion at the Board meetings. The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in 
preparing the agenda for each Board meeting and to ensure that applicable rules and regulations regarding the meetings 
are observed. The final agenda together with the Board papers are distributed to the Directors at least three days before 
the Board meetings.

If a Director (who may also be a substantial shareholder of the Company) has a conflict of interest in any matter to be 
considered by the Board, the Company Secretary shall ensure that such matter is dealt with by a physical Board meeting 
rather  than  a  written  resolution.  If  considered  appropriate,  the  Board  meeting  shall  be  attended  by  the  Independent 
Non-Executive Directors who have no material interests in the matter. The affected Director shall abstain from voting 
on any such resolution in which they or any of their associates have a material interest and shall not be counted in the 
quorum present at that Board meeting.

The Company Secretary shall ensure that the procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed. Copies of all 
signed minutes of the Board are sent to the Directors for their records.

6565

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

5.  Director Induction and Continuous Professional Development

Newly  appointed  Director  will  receive  comprehensive  induction  on  appointment  to  ensure  understanding  of  the 
Directors’ responsibilities and obligations under the Listing Rules and relevant regulatory requirements.

In  addition  to  Directors’  attendance  at  meetings  and  review  of  papers  and  circulars  provided  by  the  Company,  the 
Directors  are  committed  to  participating  in  continuous  professional  development  programme  to  develop  and  refresh 
their knowledge and skills to help ensure that their contribution to the Board remains informed and relevant.

The programme for continuous professional development of Directors takes various forms including:

(cid:127) 

the  Company  briefing  Directors  on  important  issues  which  have  a  material  impact  on  the  Group’s  business, 
financial  and  operational  matters  including  major  investments,  corporate  governance  practices  and  funding 
strategy;

(cid:127)  Directors meeting senior management of the Group on issues specific to the Group’s business;

(cid:127)  Directors reading materials and updates on the regulatory changes followed by briefings by the Company Secretary 

of the Company, if requested; and

(cid:127)  Directors  attending  external  seminars  on  business,  financial,  governance,  regulatory  and  other  issues  relevant  to 

the Group’s activities.

Below  is  the  record  of  participation  in  continuous  professional  development  programme  by  the  Directors  of  the 
Company  in  year  2018  relevant  to  the  directors’  duties  and  responsibilities,  regulatory  updates  and  business,  financial 
and operational matters of the Group.

Reading materials

Attending external 
seminars/briefings

Executive Directors
Mr. Xu Lirong (Note 1)
Mr. Huang Xiaowen (Note 1)
Mr. Wang Haimin (Note 1)
Mr. Zhang Wei (Note 1)
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Tung Chee Chen (Note 2)
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan (Note 2)

Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Yan Jun (Note 1)
Ms. Wang Dan (Note 1)
Mr. Ip Sing Chi (Note 1)
Ms. Cui Hongqin (Note 1)
Professor Roger King (Note 2)

Independent Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson (Note 1)
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip (Note 1)
Ms. Chen Ying (Note 1)
Mr. Simon Murray (Note 2)
Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward (Note 2)
Mr. Kwok King Man Clement (Note 2)

66

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

✓

✓

✓

✓
✓

✓
✓
✓

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

Notes:

1. 

2. 

appointed as Directors of the Company with effect from 3rd August 2018.

resigned as Directors of the Company with effect from 3rd August 2018.

Ms. Lammy Lee, the Company Secretary of the Company, undertook no less than fifteen hours of professional training 
in year 2018 to update her skills and knowledge.

6.  Supply of and Access to Information

All  Directors  have  access  to  the  Board’s  and  the  Committees’  papers  and  other  materials  either  from  the  Company 
Secretary or the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer so that they are able to make informed decisions on matters 
placed before them.

7.  Nomination of Directors

The Company follows a formal, considered and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors based on 
a  nomination  policy  (the  “Nomination  Policy”)  formally  adopted  in  2018  providing  the  selection  criteria  of  potential 
candidates  for  directorship  of  the  Company,  and  the  procedures  for  appointment  of  Directors  of  the  Company  and 
certain  significant  positions  of  the  Group,  for  the  Board  to  achieve  a  balance  of  skills,  experience  and  diversity  of 
perspectives appropriate to the requirements of the Company’s strategic focus and specific business needs. Recognising 
the  vitality  of  diversity  for  the  Board,  the  Company  has  also  adopted  a  board  diversity  policy  (the  “Board  Diversity 
Policy”) in 2013.

The  Nomination  Committee  reviews  the  structure,  size  and  composition  of  the  Board  regularly  and  makes 
recommendation  to  the  Board  to  complement  the  corporate  strategy  of  the  Company.  The  appointment  of  a  new 
Director  is  a  collective  decision  of  the  Board,  taking  into  consideration  both  the  Nomination  Policy  and  the  Board 
Diversity Policy. The Board believes that changes to the Board composition shall be managed without undue disruption, 
and  shall  continue  to  provide  a  balanced  composition  of  the  Executive  Directors  and  the  Non-Executive  Directors 
(including Independent Non-Executive Directors) so that there is a strong independent element in the Board, which can 
effectively exercise independent judgement.

Each  Director  shall,  after  his  appointment  and  semi-annually  thereafter,  disclose  to  the  Board  the  number  and  nature 
of  offices  held  by  such  Director  in  other  public  companies  and  organisations  and  any  other  significant  commitments, 
together with the identity of the public companies and organisations and an indication of time involved.

At  the  annual  general  meeting  of  the  Company  held  on  4th  May  2018  (the  “2017  AGM”),  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen, 
Professor Roger King and Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward retired and were re-elected as Directors of the Company, and they 
resigned from all positions in the Company with effect from 3rd August 2018 as a result of the completion of the Offer 
(as defined in the composite document dated 6th July 2018).

8.  Board Committees

In  addition  to  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee  and  the  Nomination  Committee  established  in 
compliance with the Listing Rules, the other committees comprise of the Executive Committee, the Finance Committee, 
the  Share  Committee,  the  Compliance  Committee,  the  Inside  Information  Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee. 
Each  committee  has  its  own  well  defined  scope  of  duties  and  terms  of  reference.  The  terms  of  reference  of  the  Audit 
Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee are available on the Company’s website and 
the HKEXnews website. The Company Secretary shall also make available the terms of reference of all the committees to 
any shareholder upon receipt of a written request from such shareholder. The members of a committee are empowered 
to  make  decisions  on  matters  within  the  terms  of  reference  of  such  committee.  Copies  of  all  signed  minutes  of  the 
committees are sent to the members of the respective committees and the Directors of the Company for their records.

6767

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

a.  Executive Committee

The  Executive  Committee  was  established  in  1996.  All  its  members  are  Executive  Directors.  It  is  currently 
comprised of Mr. Xu Lirong (chairman of the Executive Committee), Mr. Huang Xiaowen, Mr. Wang Haimin, Mr. 
Zhang Wei and Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of the Executive Committee.

The Executive Committee operates as an executive management committee under the direct authority of the Board. 
Its primary duties include to:

– 

formulate strategies and policies and to set corporate and management targets and operational initiatives and 
policies on risk management and plans and operational directions for the Group;

–  monitor, control and manage operational and financial performance and business affairs of the Group;

– 

– 

– 

– 

review,  discuss  and  approve  (if  appropriate)  (i)  press  announcements,  circulars  and  other  documents 
(including  inside  information  and  financial  information)  required  to  be  disclosed  pursuant  to  the  Listing 
Rules,  regulatory  or  statutory  requirements;  (ii)  submissions  from  the  Compliance  Committee,  the  Finance 
Committee and the Share Committee and, if appropriate, to recommend to the Board for consideration and 
approval;

approve capital expenditure for a specified amount;

liaise  and  consult  with,  advise  and  make  recommendations  to  its  subsidiaries  and  make  such  decisions  with 
regard thereto as the Executive Committee shall in its absolute discretion think fit, and refer such matters as it 
thinks fit to the Board for consideration, approval and/or ratification, if necessary; and to

report to the Board on its decisions, and any matter in respect of which it considers that action is needed, and 
its recommendations as to the steps to be taken.

b.  Audit Committee

The  Audit  Committee  was  established  in  1992.  All  its  members  are  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors.  It  is 
currently comprised of Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard (chairman of the Audit Committee), Mr. Chow Philip 
Yiu Wah, Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson, Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip and Ms. Chen Ying, with Mr. Fung Yee Chung 
Vincent, the Head of Internal Audit as the secretary of the Audit Committee, and Ms. Lammy Lee as the assistant 
secretary of the Audit Committee.

The  Audit  Committee  is  delegated  by  the  Board  with  the  responsibility  to  provide  an  independent  review  and 
supervision  of  financial  reporting  and  to  ensure  the  effectiveness  of  the  Group’s  risk  management  and  internal 
control  systems  and  the  adequacy  of  the  external  and  internal  audit.  To  perform  its  duties,  the  Audit  Committee 
is  provided  with  sufficient  resources  and  is  supported  by  the  Internal  Audit  Department  to  examine  all  matters 
relating to the Group’s adopted accounting principles and practices and to review all material financial, operational 
and compliance controls. The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are posted on the Company’s website.

The primary duties of the Audit Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

recommend  to  the  Board  the  appointment,  re-appointment  and  removal  of  the  external  auditor,  and  to 
approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor, and any question of its resignation 
or dismissal;

act as the key representative body overseeing the Company’s relation with the external auditor;

seek from the external auditor, on an annual basis, information about policies and processes for maintaining 
independence  and  monitoring  compliance  with  relevant  requirements,  including  provision  of  non-audit 
services and requirements regarding rotation of audit partners and staff;

68

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

– 

discuss  with  the  external  auditor  any  recommendation  arising  from  the  audit,  and  to  review  the  external 
auditor’s  management  letter,  any  material  queries  raised  by  the  external  auditor  to  management  about 
accounting records, financial statements or systems of control and management’s response, and to ensure that 
the Board will provide timely response to the issues raised in the external auditor’s management letter;

establish  and  review  from  time  to  time  the  procedure  to  review  and  monitor  the  external  auditor’s 
independence  and  objectivity,  and  the  effectiveness  of  the  audit  process  in  accordance  with  the  applicable 
standards and the scope of the external auditor, and to discuss and understand the factors considered by the 
external auditor in determining the nature and scope of the audit and reporting obligations before the audit 
commences;

establish and review from time to time the policy relating to hiring of employees or former employees of the 
external auditor and monitor the application of such policy; and to consider whether as a result of such hiring 
there has been any impairment of the auditor’s judgment or independence in respect of the audit;

establish and review from time to time the policy on engaging external auditor to supply non-audit services 
and  to  review  such  services  do  not  impair  the  external  auditor’s  independence  or  objectivity  in  relation  to 
non-audit  services  including  whether  the  skills  and  experience  of  the  external  auditor  make  it  a  suitable 
supplier  of  non-audit  services;  whether  there  are  safeguards  in  place  to  ensure  that  there  is  no  threat  to  the 
objectivity  and  independence  of  the  audit  because  the  external  auditor  provides  non-audit  services;  and 
the  nature  of  non-audit  services,  the  related  fee  levels  and  fee  levels  individually  and  in  total  relative  to  the 
external auditor;

– 

review the Group’s financial and accounting policies and practices;

–  monitor  the  integrity  of  the  Company’s  financial  statements,  annual,  quarterly  (if  prepared  for  publication) 
and interim financial reports and to review any significant financial reporting judgments contained in them, 
with particular focus on changes in accounting policies and practices, major judgmental areas, any significant 
audit adjustments, the going concern assumption and any qualifications, compliance with any applicable legal 
requirements and accounting standards, and compliance with the requirements of the Listing Rules and other 
legal requirements in relation to financial reporting;

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

consider  any  significant  or  unusual  items  that  are,  or  may  need  to  be,  reflected  in  the  report  and  financial 
statements  and  to  give  due  consideration  to  any  matter  that  has  been  raised  by  the  Financial  Compliance 
Officer  of  the  Company,  the  external  auditor,  the  Head  of  Internal  Audit  or  the  staff  responsible  for  the 
accounting and financial reporting function;

review  with  the  Group’s  management,  the  external  auditor  and  the  internal  auditor,  the  adequacy  of  the 
Group’s  policies  and  procedures  regarding  internal  control  system  (including  financial,  operational  and 
compliance  controls)  to  ensure  that  such  system  is  effective  with  audit  trails  to  protect  the  accuracy  and 
integrity  of  financial  data  and  to  pursue  relevant  enquiries  into  matters  having,  or  likely  to  have,  a  material 
effect on the business and financial conditions of the Group. The result of the review is to be reported in the 
Corporate Governance Report of the Company, including a Directors’ statement that they have conducted a 
review of its internal control system;

provide  an  independent  review  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  risk  management  system  including  the  risk 
management framework, policies and processes;

discuss  with  the  management  the  scope  and  quality  of  the  risk  management  and  internal  control  systems 
and  to  ensure  that  management  has  performed  its  duty  to  have  effective  systems  including  the  adequacy  of 
resources, staff qualifications and experience, training programmes and budget and experience of staff of the 
accounting, internal audit and financial reporting functions;

review findings of internal investigation and management’s response of any suspected frauds or irregularities 
or failures of risk management and internal controls or infringements of laws, rules and regulations;

6969

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

– 

review the scope and effectiveness of the internal audit functions and to review the results of the internal audit 
functions  regularly  with  the  internal  auditor  matters  including  planning  of  the  Audit  Committee  meetings 
and, if required by the internal auditor, the internal audit programme; and to ensure co-ordination between 
the  internal  and  external  auditors  and  that  the  internal  audit  function  is  adequately  resourced  and  has 
appropriate standing within the Company and to review and monitor its effectiveness;

review  the  effectiveness  and  monitor  the  use  of  the  whistleblowing  policy  and  procedures  for  employees  to 
raise  concerns,  in  confidence,  to  the  Audit  Committee  about  improprieties  in  financial  reporting,  internal 
control  and  other  matters;  and  to  ensure  that  proper  arrangements  are  in  place  for  fair  and  independent 
investigation of these improprieties and for appropriate follow-up action;

report to the Board on the matters raised in the SEHK Code; and to

report to the Board, identifying and making recommendations on any matter where action or improvement is 
needed and to consider other topics identified and referred to the Audit Committee by the Board.

Under  the  Group’s  whistleblowing  policy,  employees  may  report  any  concern  regarding  accounting,  internal 
accounting controls and auditing matters to the Audit Committee without fear of dismissal or retaliation, in order 
to  ensure  that  the  Group  complies  with  all  the  applicable  laws  and  regulations,  accounting  standards,  accounting 
controls and audit practices. The Audit Committee will review each complaint and decide on how the investigation 
should be conducted. In year 2018, the Audit Committee received no complaint from employees.

The Audit Committee held two meetings during the year ended 31st December 2018. The following is a summary 
of work performed by the Audit Committee during the year 2018:

(i) 

reviewed and discussed the annual financial statements for 2017 and the interim financial statements for 2018 
with the external auditor and management of the Company, with recommendations to the Board for approval;

(ii)  reviewed the significant audit and accounting issues arising from the external auditor’s statutory audit of the 

2017 annual financial statements and issues arising from the review of the 2018 interim financial statements;

(iii)  reviewed the impact of the new and revised accounting standards on the Company;

(iv)  reviewed the external auditor’s audit strategy and approach;

(v)  reviewed the non-audit services provided by the external auditor in 2017;

(vi)  met with the external auditor without the presence of the management to discuss issues from the audits and 

any other matters the external auditor might raise;

(vii)  reviewed the Internal Audit Department’s audit objectives and approval of the annual internal audit plan;

(viii) reviewed  the  findings  and  recommendations  of  the  Internal  Audit  Department  on  the  audits  carried  out  on 

the principal activities of the Group during the year 2017;

(ix)  reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems;

(x)  reviewed  the  relevant  sections  in  the  Corporate  Governance  Report  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2017 

concerning the Audit Committee;

(xi)  reviewed the adequacy of the resources, staff qualifications and experience, training programmes and budget 

and experience of staff of the Company’s accounting, internal audit and financial reporting functions;

(xii) reviewed the continuing connected transactions and their annual caps;

70

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

(xiii) reviewed the continuous implementation of the whistleblowing policy; and

(xiv) reviewed and refined the terms of reference of the Audit Committee.

The minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are prepared by the secretary of the Audit Committee with details of 
all matters considered by the attendees and of decisions reached, including any concern raised by the attendees and 
dissenting views expressed. The final version of the minutes is sent to the attendees for their records. The minutes 
are open for inspection by the Committee members and the Board members.

c.  Remuneration Committee

The Remuneration Committee was established in 2005. A majority of its members are Independent Non-Executive 
Directors. It is currently comprised of Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah (chairman of the Remuneration Committee), Mr. 
Zhang  Wei  and  Professor  Wong  Yue  Chim  Richard,  with  Ms.  Lammy  Lee  as  the  secretary  of  the  Remuneration 
Committee.

The primary duties of the Remuneration Committee include to:

– 

review and recommend to the Board the Company’s policy and structure of the remuneration of the Directors 
of  the  Company,  senior  management  (including  the  chief  executive  officer  of  the  principal  division  of  the 
Group)  and  employees  of  the  Group  including  performance-based  bonus  scheme  on  the  basis  that  they  are 
fairly but responsibly rewarded for their individual contribution to the overall performance of the Company;

– 

establish and review a formal and transparent procedure for developing remuneration policy;

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(i)  review  and  approve  the  management’s  remuneration  proposals  with  reference  to  the  Board’s  corporate 
goals  and  objectives;  and  determine  the  remuneration  packages  of  individual  Executive  Directors  of  the 
Company  and  senior  management  (including  the  chief  executive  officer  of  the  principal  division  of  the 
Group); and (ii) recommend to the Board the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

consult the Chairman of the Board and/or Chief Executive Officer of the Company about their remuneration 
proposals  for  the  other  Executive  Directors  of  the  Company  and  senior  management  (including  the  chief 
executive officer of the principal division of the Group);

review and approve compensation payable to the Executive Directors of the Company and senior management 
(including  the  chief  executive  officer  of  the  principal  division  of  the  Group)  for  any  loss  or  termination  of 
office to ensure that it is consistent with contractual terms and is otherwise fair and not excessive;

review and approve compensation arrangements relating to dismissal or removal of Directors for misconduct 
to ensure that they are consistent with contractual terms and are otherwise reasonable and appropriate;

ensure that no Director or any of his associates or senior management (including the chief executive officer of 
the principal division of the Group) is involved in deciding his own remuneration; and to

advise the Board any matter relating to the remuneration or reward of the Executive Directors of the Company 
or  senior  management  (including  the  chief  executive  officer  of  the  principal  division  of  the  Group)  or 
employees of the Group.

7171

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

The  Remuneration  Committee  held  three  meetings  during  the  year  ended  31st  December  2018.  The  works 
performed by the Remuneration Committee during the year 2018 include:

(i) 

reviewed the Company’s policy and remuneration structure for the Directors of the Company, and the senior 
management and employees of the Group, and ensured compliance of disclosure with the Listing Rules and in 
line with best practices;

(ii)  reviewed the procedure for developing remuneration policy;

(iii)  reviewed  the  discretionary  management  bonus  of  the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Company,  and  the  senior 

management and employees of the Group for the year 2017;

(iv)  reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  or  determined  with  delegated  responsibilities,  as  the  case  may  be, 
in accordance with the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, the remuneration packages of the 
Directors of the Company, and the senior management of the Group for the year 2018;

(v)  reviewed and recommended to the Board the fees payable to the newly appointed Directors and the members 
of  the  Board  committees  of  the  Company,  and  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan  as  the  financial  consultant  of  the 
Company following his resignation; and

(vi)  reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  the  retention  plan  of  valuable  staff  of  the  Company  to  ensure  the 

stability of the workforce.

No Director was involved in determining his own remuneration.

d.  Nomination Committee

The  Nomination  Committee  was  established  in  2012.  A  majority  of  its  members  are  Independent  Non-Executive 
Directors. It is currently comprised of Mr. Xu Lirong (chairman of the Nomination Committee), Mr. Yan Jun, Mr. 
Chow Philip Yiu Wah, Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson and Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the 
secretary of the Nomination Committee.

The primary duties of the Nomination Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review  and  recommend  to  the  Board  the  Nomination  Policy  on  selection  criteria  of  potential  candidates  for 
directorship of the Company;

review and recommend to the Board the succession plan to ensure the stability of the Board to complement 
the Company’s corporate strategy;

review and report annually on implementation of the Board Diversity Policy and the Nomination Policy of the 
Company, and progress (if relevant);

review  the  structure,  size  and  composition  (including  gender,  age,  cultural  and  education  background, 
ethnicity,  skills,  knowledge,  industry  experience  and  length  of  service)  of  the  Board  at  least  annually  and 
recommend any proposed change to the Board to complement the Company’s corporate strategy;

receive  from  the  Board  referral  of  suitable  qualified  candidate  for  it  to  assess  if  the  potential  candidate 
meets  the  selection  criteria,  which  shall  be  based  on  the  Nomination  Policy  and  the  Board  Diversity  Policy 
appropriate  for  the  Group’s  strategic  focus  and  specific  business  needs;  assess  and  recommend  to  the  Board 
for approval the nomination of a selected candidate as a director of the Company either to fill a casual vacancy 
or as an addition to the existing Board and/or a member of any Board committee of the Company;

review  and  recommend  to  the  Board  the  appointment  or  re-appointment/re-election  of  Directors  and 
succession  plan  for  Directors  to  maintain  a  balance  of  skills,  knowledge,  experience  and  diversity  of 
perspectives of the Board;

72

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

assess and report to the Board the qualifications of any person proposed by a shareholder of the Company for 
election as a director of the Company to ensure compliance with the Nomination Policy of the Company and 
the requirements as provided in the Listing Rules are satisfied;

assess the independence of the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

regularly review and report to the Board the contribution required by a Director of the Company to perform 
his responsibilities and whether he is spending sufficient time in performing them;

assess performance of the Executive Directors and conduct a regular evaluation of the Board’s performance by 
a member of the Nomination Committee, who is an Independent Non-Executive Director, and report results 
of the evaluation to the Board; and to

review the appointment of the chief executive officer of the principal division of the Group and report result 
of the review to the Board of the Company for consideration and approval.

The Nomination Committee held two meetings during the year ended 31st December 2018. The works performed 
by the Nomination Committee during the year 2018 include:

(i) 

reviewed the Company’s policy for nomination of Directors;

(ii)  reviewed procedures for appointment of new Directors and plans for orderly succession;

(iii)  reviewed the implementation of the Board Diversity Policy of the Company;

(iv)  reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board of the Company;

(v)  reviewed and recommended to the Board on the changes in the directorship and officership of the Company, 
the changes in the membership of certain committees of the Company, and the appointment of the financial 
consultant for transitional period;

(vi)  recommended re-election of the retiring directors at the annual general meeting of the Company held on 4th 

May 2018;

(vii)  assessed independence of the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

(viii) reviewed the contribution of the Directors of the Company for the year 2017; and

(ix)  evaluated performance of the Board and assessed performance of the Executive Directors of the Company by 
a member of the Nomination Committee who is an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company in 
accordance with the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee.

The Board Diversity Policy is summarised as follows:

– 

– 

the Company ensures that its Board has the appropriate balance of skills, breadth of experience, independence 
and  objectivity,  engagement  and  credibility,  rigour  and  structure  and  diversity  of  perspectives  of  the  Board 
required to support the execution of its strategic focus and specific business needs in order for the Board to be 
effective;

selection  of  candidates  will  be  based  on  a  range  of  perspectives,  including  but  not  limited  to  gender,  age, 
cultural and educational background, ethnicity, industry experience, skills, knowledge and length of service. 
The  Board’s  appointment  should  be  based  on  meritocracy  and  diversity  of  perspectives  appropriate  for  the 
Group’s strategic focus and specific business needs and the contribution that the selected candidates will bring 
to the Board; and

7373

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

– 

the  Nomination  Committee  will  take  into  consideration  of  the  Board  Diversity  Policy  in  identifying  and 
nominating suitable qualified candidates to become members of the Board, and shall ensure that the selected 
candidates  shall  have  the  breadth  of  experience,  independence  and  objectivity,  engagement  and  credibility, 
rigour and structure.

The Nomination Policy is summarised as follows:

– 

– 

the Board is responsible for the selection and appointment of Directors of the Company and for nomination of 
the Directors of the Company for election by the shareholders of the Company thereafter at regular intervals 
by  rotation  so  as  to  achieve  a  balance  of  skills,  experience  and  diversity  of  perspectives  appropriate  to  the 
requirements  of  the  Company’s  strategic  focus  and  specific  business  needs.  The  Nomination  Committee  is 
responsible for evaluating and nominating candidates for approval by the Board.

the  Nomination  Committee  will  assess  if  the  potential  candidate  meets  the  selection  criteria,  which  shall 
be  based  on  the  Nomination  Policy  and  the  Board  Diversity  Policy  appropriate  for  the  Company’s  strategic 
focus and specific business needs under the formalised procedure for selection and appointment of Directors 
of  the  Company  and  key  management  of  the  principal  division  of  the  Group.  Contribution  by  the  potential 
candidate shall bring to the Board reflecting the followings:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

structure, size and composition of the current Board;

time commitment to the Board;

diversity of the Board in all its aspect as set out in the Board Diversity Policy;

reputation and integrity;

Board succession plan;

requirements as provided in the Listing Rules; and

other factors that the Board may consider appropriate.

– 

the  Nomination  Committee  will  monitor  and  review  the  Nomination  Policy  periodically  to  ensure  that  it 
remains  relevant  to  the  Company’s  strategic  focus  and  business  needs  and  reflects  both  current  regulatory 
requirements and good corporate governance.

e.  Risk Committee

The Risk Committee was established in 2015 and is currently comprised of Mr. Huang Xiaowen (chairman of the 
Risk Committee), Mr. Wang Haimin, Mr. Zhang Wei, Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew, Mr. Yan Jun, Ms. Wang Dan, 
Mr. Ip Sing Chi, Ms. Cui Hongqin, Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah, Mr. Zhang Mingwen and Ms. Lammy Lee, with Mr. 
Mok Yun Lee Paul as the secretary of the Risk Committee.

The primary duties of the Risk Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

establish  risk  appetite,  risk  management  strategy,  and  a  strong  and  independent  internal  control  and  review 
systems;

align strategic direction and business objective of the Group with risk appetite;

oversight on adequacy of the Group’s risk management policies, process and system. In pursuing the Group’s 
strategic direction and business objective, aims to optimise risk and return;

– 

identify, assess and manage principal risks to pursue the Group’s strategic and business objective;

74

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

provide direction on the importance of risk management and risk management culture;

formulate, implement and review environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) strategies of the Group; and 
to

identify,  assess  and  manage  ESG-related  risks  and  ensure  appropriate  and  effective  ESG  risk  management 
systems are in place.

The Risk Committee held two meetings and passed resolutions by way of written resolution during the year ended 
31st December 2018. The works performed by the Risk Committee during the year 2018 include:

(i) 

reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  the  Group’s  risk  appetite,  risk  management  strategies,  risk 
management policies, process and system in pursuit of the Group’s strategic direction and business objectives;

(ii) 

identified, reviewed, assessed and managed principal risks of the Group to pursue the Group’s strategic and 
business objectives;

(iii)  reviewed  and  reported  to  the  Board  the  Company’s  compliance  with  the  SEHK  Code  in  relation  to  the  risk 

management; and

(iv)  reviewed and reported to the Board the Company’s compliance with the Listing Rules in relation to the ESG 

related compliance.

f.  Compliance Committee

The Compliance Committee was established in 2004 and is currently comprised of Ms. Lammy Lee (chairperson of 
the Compliance Committee), Mr. Wang Haimin, Mr. Zhang Mingwen, Mr. Michael Fitzgerald, Mr. Lam Tuen Pei 
Pius  and  Mr.  Fung  Yee  Chung  Vincent.  The  Board  has  delegated  the  responsibility  for  monitoring  the  corporate 
governance compliance to the Compliance Committee.

The primary duties of the Compliance Committee include to:

– 

review, monitor and provide administrative support on the compliance control of the Group and compliance 
of the following corporate governance functions of the Company:

(a)  on  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  corporate  governance  and  make  recommendations  to  the 

Board;

(b)  on  the  training  and  continuous  professional  development  of  Directors  and  senior  management  of  the 

Group;

(c)  on the Company’s policies and practices on compliance with legal and regulatory requirements;

(d)  on the development of the code of conduct and compliance manuals (if any) applicable to employees of 

the Group and Directors of the Company;

(e)  on the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and the SEHK Code;

(f) 

to report the above items (a) to (e) to the Board regularly; and

(g) 

to  prepare  (i)  the  Corporate  Governance  Report  covering  all  mandatory  disclosure  requirements  as  set 
out in the Listing Rules; and/or (ii) information required to be disclosed by the Compliance Committee 
in  the  Company’s  results  announcements,  the  annual  reports,  the  interim  reports  and  any  other 
documents, pursuant to the Listing Rules;

7575

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

review and report to the Board regularly the shareholders’ communication policy to ensure its effectiveness; 
and to

ensure the Company is in compliance with the Listing Rules including disclosure and compliance obligations 
for  matters  including  notifiable  transactions,  connected  transactions,  continuing  connected  transactions, 
advance  to  an  entity,  financial  assistance  and  guarantees  to  affiliated  companies  of  the  Company,  loan 
agreements  with  covenants  relating  to  specific  performance  of  the  controlling  shareholder  of  the  Company, 
breach of a loan agreement by the Company, disclosure of financial information pursuant to Appendix 16 to 
the Listing Rules, and general obligations of disclosure under rule 13.09 of the Listing Rules.

The Compliance Committee held three meetings during the year ended 31st December 2018. The works performed 
by the Compliance Committee during the year 2018 include:

(i) 

reviewed  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  corporate  governance,  risk  management,  and  made 
recommendations to the Board;

(ii)  reviewed and recommended to the Board the adoption of a dividend policy and the Nomination Policy and 
the revisions to terms of reference of certain committees of the Company, the Company’s CG Code to align 
and comply with the up-to-date SEHK Code and related Listing Rules;

(iii)  reviewed and monitored the training and continuous professional development of Directors of the Company;

(iv)  reviewed  and  monitored  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  compliance  with  legal  and  regulatory 
requirements, particularly on legal, financial and accounting, internal control and audit, risk management and 
ESG related compliance;

(v)  reviewed and monitored the code of conduct and compliance manuals (if any) applicable to employees of the 

Group and Directors of the Company;

(vi)  reviewed the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and the SEHK Code and the disclosure requirements 

in the Corporate Governance Report;

(vii)  reviewed the Company’s compliance with the disclosure requirements in the Sustainability Report;

(viii) reviewed and reported to the Board on the effectiveness of the shareholders’ communication policy;

(ix)  reviewed  and  reported  to  the  Board  on  the  notifiable  transactions,  connected  transactions,  continuing 

connected transactions and the significant contracts of the Group; and

(x)  reviewed  the  regulatory  compliance  by  the  Group  following  the  change  of  controlling  shareholder  of  the 

Group upon the completion of the Offer (as defined in the composite document dated 6th July 2018).

g.  Finance Committee

The  Finance  Committee  was  established  in  1993  and  is  currently  comprised  of  Dr.  Chung  Shui  Ming  Timpson 
(chairman  of  the  Finance  Committee),  Mr.  Wang  Haimin,  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew,  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu 
Wah, Ms. Chen Ying and Mr. Zhang Mingwen, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of the Finance Committee.

The primary duties of the Finance Committee include to:

– 

– 

assist in the financial requirements of the Group including financing, refinancing, leasing, purchase and sale 
of vessels, properties and equipment and the financing of the business operations of the Group;

report to the Board on its decisions, and any matter in respect of which it considers that action is needed, and 
its recommendation as to the steps to be taken; and to

76

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

– 

discuss  and  review  the  disclosure  obligations  of  the  Company  on  financial,  accounting  or  related  issues 
on  compliance  with  the  Listing  Rules  and  refer  transactions  with  their  recommendations  to  the  Executive 
Committee of the Company for its endorsement and/or approval.

h.  Share Committee

The Share Committee was established in 1992 and is currently comprised of Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip (chairman 
of the Share Committee), Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah and Ms. Chen Ying, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of 
the Share Committee.

The primary duties of the Share Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

deal  with  and  grant  approval  on  the  removal  of  the  ordinary  shares  of  the  Company  from  the  Principal 
Register in Bermuda to the Branch Register in Hong Kong or vice versa;

deal  with  share  transactions  including,  but  not  limited  to  share  repurchases,  issue  of  bonus  shares,  scrip 
dividend schemes, top up placings, share subscriptions and placement of the Company’s shares;

give  authorisation  to  the  Company’s  Principal  Registrar  and  Branch  Registrar  to  issue  share  certificates  to 
shareholders who have reported loss of share certificates and in connection with the above share transactions; 
and to

discuss and review the disclosure obligations of the Company on share transactions and compliance with the 
Listing Rules.

i. 

Inside Information Committee

The  Inside  Information  Committee  was  established  in  2013  and  is  currently  comprised  of  Mr.  Huang  Xiaowen 
(chairman  of  the  Inside  Information  Committee),  Mr.  Wang  Haimin,  Mr.  Zhang  Wei,  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung 
Andrew and Ms. Lammy Lee.

The primary duties of the Inside Information Committee include to:

– 

ensure proper systems and control are in place to collect, review and verify potential inside information;

– 

identify, assess and escalate potential inside information to the attention of the Board; report to the Board on 
the  recommendation  of  the  Inside  Information  Committee,  and  any  matter  in  respect  of  which  it  considers 
that  action  is  needed,  and  its  recommendation  as  to  the  actions  to  be  taken  and  what  information  to  be 
disclosed;

– 

vet and clear announcements or other public disclosures; and to

– 

supervise the Company’s compliance with continuing disclosure obligations.

j. 

Independent Board Committee

The  Independent  Board  Committee  was  established  in  2017  for  the  purpose  of  making  recommendation  to  the 
shareholders of the Company as to whether the Offer (as defined in the composite document dated 6th July 2018) 
is  fair  and  reasonable  and  as  to  acceptance.  The  Independent  Board  Committee  was  dissolved  subsequent  to  the 
close of the Offer (as defined in the composite document dated 6th July 2018) on 27th July 2018.

7777

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

9.  Attendance Records of Board Meetings, Board Committees Meetings and General Meetings

The attendance records of each Director of the Board Committees of the Company at the relevant meetings held in year 
2018 are as follows:

Actual Attendance/Number of Meetings a Director is entitled to attend

Executive 
Committee

Audit 
Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

Nomination 
Committee

Risk 
Committee

Compliance 
Committee

Finance 
Committee

Share 
Committee

No. of meetings held during the year

Executive Directors
Mr. Xu Lirong (Chairman) (Note 1)
Mr. Huang Xiaowen  

(Chief Executive Officer) (Note 1)

Mr. Wang Haimin (Note 1)
Mr. Zhang Wei (Note 1)
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Tung Chee Chen (Note 2)
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan (Note 2)

Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Yan Jun (Note 1)
Ms. Wang Dan (Note 1)
Mr. Ip Sing Chi (Note 1)
Ms. Cui Hongqin (Note 1)
Professor Roger King (Note 2)

Independent Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson (Note 1)
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip (Note 1)
Ms. Chen Ying (Note 1)
Mr. Simon Murray (Note 2)
Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward (Note 2)
Mr. Kwok King Man Clement (Note 2)

Board

7

2/2
1/2

2/2
1/2
7/7
5/5
5/5

2/2
1/2
2/2
2/2
4/5

6/7
7/7
2/2
2/2
2/2
3/5
5/5
3/5

9

0/2
2/2

2/2
1/2
9/9
7/7
7/7

–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

3

–
–

–
N/A
–
3/3
–

–
–
–
–
–

3/3
3/3
–
–
–
–
–
–

2

2

N/A
–

–
–
–
2/2
–

N/A
–
–
–
–

2/2
2/2
N/A
N/A
–
–
–
–

–
N/A

N/A
N/A
2/2
2/2
2/2

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
2/2

2/2
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

3

–
–

0/1
–
–
–
2/2

–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

1

–
–

N/A
–
N/A
–
–

–
–
–
–
1/1

1/1
–
N/A
–
N/A
–
–
–

2

–
–

–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
1/1

2/2
–
–
1/1
1/1
–
–
–

2

–
–

–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–

2/2
2/2
N/A
N/A
N/A
1/2
1/2
2/2

80%

Inside 
Information 
Committee

2017 AGM

0

1

–
N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

N/A
N/A

N/A
N/A
1/1
1/1
1/1

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
0/1

1/1
1/1
N/A
N/A
N/A
0/1
1/1
1/1

Average attendance rate

86.79%

78.57%

100%

100%

100%

66.67%

100%

100%

N/A

77.78%

Notes:

1. 

2. 

appointed as Directors of the Company with effect from 3rd August 2018.

resigned as Directors of the Company with effect from 3rd August 2018.

10.  Securities Transactions by Directors

The  Company  has  adopted  its  own  code  of  conduct  regarding  securities  transactions  by  Directors  on  terms  no  less 
exacting than the required standard set out in the Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers 
(the “Model Code”) contained in Appendix 10 to the Listing Rules.

All  Directors  have  confirmed,  following  specific  enquiry  by  the  Company,  that  they  have  fully  complied  with  the 
required  standards  set  out  in  both  the  Company’s  own  code  and  the  Model  Code  for  the  year  ended  31st  December 
2018.

78

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

11.  Share Interests of Directors and Senior Management

a.  Directors

Directors’ interests in the shares of the Company are set out on pages 90 and 91 of this annual report.

b.  Senior Management

As at 31st December 2018, the number of shares of the Company held by the senior management of the Group are 
as follows:

Name

Ms. Chen Xiang
Mr. Erxin Yao
Mr. Stephen Ng
Mr. Zhang Mingwen
Mr. Steve Siu
Ms. Lammy Lee
Mr. Michael Fitzgerald
Mr. Kenny Ye
Mr. Raymond Fung
Mr. Teddy Fung

Number of shares held

2,000
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

12.  Emoluments of Directors and Senior Management (Note)

a.  Emoluments of Directors

The emoluments of the Directors of the Company for the year ended 31st December 2018 are set out on pages 142 
and 143 of this annual report.

b.  Emoluments of Senior Management

The emoluments of the senior management of the Group for the year ended 31st December 2018 are set out below:

Emolument bands (US$)

0 – 64,102
256,401 – 320,500
320,501 – 384,600
384,601 – 448,700
448,701 – 512,800
512,801 – 576,900
576,901 – 641,000
641,001 – 705,100
769,201 – 833,300

Total

Note: biographical details of senior management are set out on pages 56 to 58 of this annual report.

Number of individuals 
2018

2
0
2
1
1
1
1
1
1

10

7979

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

B.  ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT

1.  External Auditor

PricewaterhouseCoopers  was  re-appointed  as  the  Company’s  external  auditor  by  shareholders  at  the  2017  AGM  until 
the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.

The Company has established a policy on appointment of external auditor in providing non-audit services, setting out 
the principles by which an external auditor may be appointed to provide non-audit services, with a view to ensuring the 
independence of the external auditor.

The fee in respect of audit and non-audit services provided by the external auditor to the Company for the year ended 
31st December 2018 is set out on page 144 note 11 to the consolidated financial statements of this annual report.

2.  Directors’ and Auditor’s Acknowledgement

All Directors acknowledged their responsibilities for preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 
31st December 2018.

PricewaterhouseCoopers,  the  external  auditor  of  the  Company,  acknowledged  the  reporting  responsibilities  in  the 
auditor’s report on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2018.

3.  Internal Controls

The  Board  is  responsible  for  establishing  and  maintaining  appropriate  and  effective  internal  control  systems  for  the 
Group,  and  through  the  Audit  Committee,  conducts  reviews  of  the  effectiveness  of  such  systems  at  least  annually, 
covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management functions. 
The process used in reviewing the effectiveness of these internal control systems includes discussion with management 
on risk areas identified by management of the Company and principal division of the Group and review of significant 
issues  arising  from  internal  and  external  audits.  The  Company’s  internal  control  systems  comprise  a  well  established 
organisational structure and comprehensive policies and standards. Procedures have been designed to safeguard assets 
against  unauthorised  use  or  disposition,  to  maintain  proper  accounting  records,  for  assurance  of  the  reliability  of 
financial  information  for  internal  use  or  publication,  and  to  ensure  compliance  with  applicable  laws  and  regulations. 
The  purpose  of  the  Company’s  internal  control  is  to  provide  reasonable,  but  not  absolute,  assurance  against  material 
misstatement or loss and to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure in operational systems and achievement of the 
Company’s objectives.

The Board has established the following measures to provide effective internal controls:

– 

– 

– 

a  distinct  organisational  structure  for  the  principal  division  with  defined  authority  responsibilities  and  control/
measures;

an  annual  budget  for  the  principal  division  allocating  resources  in  accordance  with  identified  and  prioritised 
business opportunities. The annual budget for the principal division is approved by the Board on an annual basis;

a  comprehensive  management  accounting  system  for  the  principal  division  to  provide  financial  and  operational 
performance  indicators  to  the  relevant  management,  and  financial  information  for  reporting  and  disclosure 
purposes. Actual operational results are measured against budget each month. Detailed forecasts for the year and 
long-term forecasts of profit and loss, cash flow and balance sheets are regularly reviewed and updated. Variances 
to budget are analysed and explained and appropriate action taken, if necessary;

80

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

systems and procedures are in place to identify, measure, manage and control risks including business, compliance, 
operational,  financial  and  information  services  risks  that  may  have  an  impact  on  the  Group  and  the  principal 
division.  Exposure  to  these  risks  is  monitored  by  the  Executive  Committee  and  the  management  of  the  principal 
division;

clearly defined procedures are in place for the control of capital and major expenditure commitments, off-balance 
sheet financial instruments and the supervision, control and review of the investment portfolio; and

the  Internal  Audit  Department  performs  independent  reviews  of  the  risks  and  controls  identified  to  provide 
reasonable  assurance  to  management  of  the  Company  and  principal  division  and  the  Audit  Committee  that 
controls have been set in place and adequately addressed.

The  internal  audit  function,  which  is  centrally  controlled,  monitors  compliance  with  policies  and  standards  as  well  as 
the  effectiveness  of  internal  control  structures  across  the  Company  and  the  Group.  To  preserve  the  independence  of 
the internal audit function, the Head of Internal Audit reports functionally to the Audit Committee whose chairman is 
an Independent Non-Executive Director who has direct access to the Board. Using a risk-based approach, the Internal 
Audit  Department  plans  its  internal  audit  schedules  annually  in  consultation  with,  but  independent  of,  management 
of  the  Company  and  the  principal  division.  The  Internal  Audit  Department  has  unrestricted  access  to  information 
that  allows  it  to  review  all  aspects  of  the  Group’s  risk  management,  control  and  governance  processes.  Independent 
reviews of different financial, business and functional operations and activities are conducted with audit resources being 
focused on high risk areas. Ad hoc reviews are also conducted on areas of concern identified by the Audit Committee 
and  management  of  the  Company  and  the  principal  division.  The  management  of  the  Company  and  the  principal 
division including the affected subsidiary are notified of the deficiencies noted for rectification, and the Internal Audit 
Department follows up with the implementation of audit recommendations.

The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board assesses the effectiveness of the internal control system including detecting 
fraud  and  other  irregularities  by  reviewing  the  Internal  Audit  Department’s  work  and  findings.  On  a  yearly  basis,  the 
Internal Audit Department summarises the major audit findings and other relevant information that have come to the 
Internal Audit Department’s attention during the course of the audits and reports to the Audit Committee.

According to the 2018 Internal Audit report, the Group’s internal control system is functioning effectively, there was no 
significant weakness found in the course of the audits carried out during the year, and there is no change in the nature 
and  extent  of  significant  risks  as  well  as  the  scope  and  quality  of  management’s  ongoing  monitoring  of  the  risks  and 
the  internal  control  system.  The  Audit  Committee  has  concluded  that  the  Group  has  maintained  sound  and  effective 
internal  controls  to  safeguard  the  Group’s  assets,  and  there  is  an  ongoing  process  in  place  for  identifying,  evaluating 
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The Board, therefore, is of the view that there are no significant 
frauds,  irregularities,  internal  control  deficiencies  or  suspected  infringement  of  laws,  rules  and  regulations  that  cause 
the Board to believe that the systems of internal control are ineffective or inadequate, and there are no significant areas 
of concern which may affect shareholders. The Board is satisfied that the Company and the Group have fully complied 
with the code provisions on internal control as set forth in the SEHK Code for the year ended 31st December 2018.

To  ensure  on-going  compliance  with  the  SEHK  Code,  the  Audit  Committee  reviewed  the  adequacy  of  staffing  of  the 
accounting, internal audit and financial reporting functions on behalf of the Board and was satisfied with the adequacy 
of resources, staff qualifications and experience, training programmes and budget of the Company’s accounting, internal 
audit and financial reporting functions.

8181

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

The  Company  has  implemented  the  following  procedures  and  internal  controls  for  the  handling  and  dissemination  of 
inside information:

a) 

it monitors any inside information and makes appropriate announcement as required by the Listing Rules;

b) 

it conducts its affairs by reference to the “Guidelines on Disclosure of Inside Information” issued by the Securities 
and Futures Commission;

c) 

it has established procedures for handling external affairs about the Group; and

d) 

it has established guidelines to be followed by senior management and employees in dealing with confidential and 
inside information.

4.  Risk Management

The Board acknowledges that risks are inherent in our business and the market in which we operate, and we undertake 
and monitor risks in pursuit of our strategic and business objectives. Our approach is if risks are effectively managed, 
it  can  be  a  value  driver  for  competitive  advantage  and  the  exercising  of  risk  management  abilities  can  become  an 
advantage to differentiate the Group from its competitors.

The Group has built and maintained sound and effective risk management and internal control systems to safeguard the 
Group’s  assets,  but  not  absolute  assurance  against  material  misstatement  or  loss  and  to  manage  rather  than  eliminate 
risks  of  failure  in  operational  systems  and  achievement  of  the  Group’s  strategic  business  objectives.  In  the  context  of 
the  Group’s  capital  structure  and  business  models;  it  would  re-assess  the  risk  appetite  on  a  regular  basis,  taking  into 
consideration  the  Group’s  business  strategies  and  return  targets.  The  risk  strategy  of  the  Group,  adopting  a  proactive 
approach, would be determined upon analysis results for a specific risk through the risk management process; and once 
risk is identified based on the risk strategy, it will be managed so that it can be understood, minimised, transferred or 
contained, through a group-wide risk management framework.

The Risk Committee delegates to the management, the design and setting of risk management parameters, who would 
work  with  relevant  stakeholders  of  its  business  and  operation  units  to  identify  key  risk  areas  to  be  assessed  and  risk 
control measures formulated to mitigate and guide each local and regional office. The key risk management areas would 
be  regularly  reviewed  to  identify  areas  for  improvement,  from  which  where  necessary,  the  development  of  policies 
and procedures for the Group to manage and control risks that might have an impact on the Group and the principal 
division  including  potential  risks  in  critical  business  areas  that  are  both  strategic  and  operational  levels,  to  ensure 
business  continuity,  to  optimise  business  result,  and  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  relevant  rules  and  regulations. 
The Risk Committee reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems and 
internal audits are conducted as part of ongoing review on the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control 
systems. Emerging risks that may have an impact on the Group are also discussed in the Risk Committee meetings and 
shared with the Audit Committee.

The  Group’s  risk  management  organisation  structure  has  a “top-down”  approach  on  oversight,  risk  identification  and 
assessment, and mitigation of risk at corporate level; and a “bottom-up” approach on risk identification and assessment, 
and mitigation of risk at business unit level and cross functional areas for its risk management.

Based  on  the  Group  risk  management  principles  and  culture  in  taking  justifiable  calculated  risk  in  business  decision 
after identifying the inherent risks, exploring possible mitigation and assessing all relevant costs and benefits as a result 
of the decision; and promoting a risk-intelligent culture in the organisation, in which a risk-averse, risk-seeking or risk-
neutral attitude might be adopted as and when the circumstances justified; risk management policy is set up to ensure 
common understanding of risk principles and encouraging a risk intelligent culture on a group-wide level. Our policies 
and guidelines are periodically reviewed and amended when considered necessary in line with the dynamic changes in 
our business environment and operations.

82

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

The Group has (i) a formalised enterprise risk management (“ERM”) process, taking into consideration of the Group’s 
organisation  structure  and  nature  of  business;  and  (ii)  developed  a  risk  register  with  a  principal  risk  dashboard  that 
summarises major risks whose potential consequences are significant at group level and may trigger risk events that in 
aggregate, become significant to the Group as at a given time, and a functional risk dashboard. This provides a point-in-
time assessment of the risk profile of the Group for the Risk Committee and the Board on the nature and extent of the 
risks faced by the Group.

The  Group  has  adopted  an  activity-based  “three  lines  of  defence”  risk  governance  model  to  delegate  and  coordinate 
essential risk management and control duties in a clear and cohesive manner:

a)  First line of defence – Functional units establish risk and control environments in the Group’s day-to-day business 
operations, and as risk owners, are responsible for risk identification, formulation of risk mitigation strategies and 
upward reporting of risk monitoring progress;

b) 

Second line of defence – The Risk Management Department monitors the risk management system and facilitates 
the  development  and  setting  of  policies  and  guidelines  and  its  effective  implementation.  It  provides  advice  and 
guidance to the first-line functional units on implementation of the risk management and internal control systems; 
and

c)  Third line of defence – The Internal Audit Department provides independent review on the effectiveness of the risk 

management and internal control systems.

The  Group’s  ERM  process  is  underpinned  by  its  risk  culture,  which  is  aligned  to  the  overall  ethics  and  culture  of 
the  Group.  The  ERM  process  consists  of  eight  process  components:  internal  environment,  objective  setting,  risk 
identification, risk assessment, risk response, control activities, communication and monitoring; and is used to identify, 
evaluate  and  manage  the  significant  risks  to  the  Group.  The  functional  units  translate  the  risk  events  and  incorporate 
the  Group  risk  appetite  into  quantitative  tolerance  limits  to  monitor  and  manage  the  identified  material  risks  in  line 
with  the  Board’s  strategies;  before  communicating  their  recommended  mitigation  plans  to  the  Risk  Management 
Department. The Group risk register allows categorisation and prioritisation of risks, risk documentation and reporting, 
and the monitoring of the ongoing development of risks.

For the year ended 31st December 2018, following management confirmation to the Risk Committee on its scope and 
quality  of  its  ongoing  risks  monitoring  and  internal  control  systems;  and  satisfaction  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  risk 
management and internal control systems with no significant control failings or weaknesses and no significant areas of 
concern identified which might affect the shareholders of the Company, the Risk Committee has reported twice to the 
Board on their review and confirmation of its satisfaction on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and 
internal control systems, including the scope and quality of the Group’s ongoing monitoring of risks.

The  Board  confirmed  that  the  Group’s  risk  management  and  internal  control  systems  are  functioning  adequately  and 
effectively. The Board is satisfied that the Company and the Group have fully complied with the code provisions on risk 
management as set forth in the SEHK Code for the year ended 31st December 2018.

C.  COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS

The  Company  attaches  great  importance  to  communications  with  shareholders.  Extensive  information  on  the  Group’s 
activities,  business  strategies  and  developments  is  provided  in  the  Company’s  annual  reports  and  interim  reports. 
Shareholders  of  the  Company  are  encouraged  to  attend  the  annual  general  meetings  of  the  Company  which  offer  a 
valuable  forum  for  dialogue  and  interaction  with  management.  The  Chairman  of  the  Board  and  the  chairpersons  of  the 
Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee,  the  Nomination  Committee  and  other  Board  committees,  or  in  their 
absence, another member of the relevant committee, are available at the annual general meetings to answer questions from 
shareholders on the business of the Group. A separate resolution is proposed by the Chairman in respect of each issue at the 
general meetings.

8383

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

The  Company  has  also  established  a  shareholders’  communication  policy  to  ensure  shareholders  are  provided  with  ready, 

equal and timely access to balanced and understandable information about the Company. The policy is regularly reviewed to 

ensure its effectiveness and is available on written request to the Company Secretary.

The most recent shareholders’ meeting of the Company was the 2017 AGM held at Dynasty Room, 7th Floor, The Dynasty 

Club, South West Tower, Convention Plaza, 1 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong on 4th May 2018, at which the following 

ordinary resolutions were passed with the voting results as follows:

Ordinary Resolutions

Number of Votes (%)

For

Against

1.

To consider and adopt the audited Financial Statements and the Reports of 

492,302,055

the Directors and the Auditor for the year ended 31st December 2017.

(100%)

0

(0%)

2(a). To re-elect Mr. Tung Chee Chen as Director.

2(b). To re-elect Professor Roger King as Director.

2(c). To re-elect Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward as Director.

484,955,941

7,346,116

(98.507803%)

(1.492197%)

490,889,132

1,412,925

(99.712996%)

(0.287004%)

475,366,872

16,526,685

(96.640191%)

(3.359809%)

3.

To authorise the Board of Directors to fix the Directors’ remuneration.

491,032,446

1,269,611

(99.742107%)

(0.257893%)

4.

To re-appoint Messrs. PricewaterhouseCoopers as Auditor and to authorise 

475,101,863

17,200,194

the Board of Directors to fix their remuneration.

(96.506171%)

(3.493829%)

5(a). To grant a general mandate to the Directors to allot, issue and deal with the 

445,841,123

46,460,934

Company’s shares.

(90.562515%)

(9.437485%)

5(b). To grant a general mandate to the Directors to repurchase the Company’s 

491,042,946

1,259,111

shares.

(99.744240%)

(0.255760%)

5(c). To extend the general mandate to issue shares to cover the shares 

445,992,298

46,309,759

repurchased by the Company under Resolution No. 5(b).

(90.593223%)

(9.406777%)

Since the publication of the Company’s 2010 interim report, the Company has offered to the shareholders of the Company 

the  following  options  to  choose  the  language  and  means  of  receipt  of  the  corporate  communications  of  the  Company  in 

support of environment protection and for the purpose of saving printing and mailing costs:

(1) 

to  read  the  corporate  communication  published  on  the  Company’s  website  at  http://www.ooilgroup.com  in  place  of 

receiving  printed  copies,  and  receive  an  e-mail  notification  or  a  printed  notification  letter  (as  the  case  may  be)  of  the 

publication of the corporate communication on website; or

(2) 

to  receive  either  the  printed  English  version,  the  printed  Chinese  version  or  both  the  printed  English  and  Chinese 

versions of the Company’s corporate communication.

84

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance Report

D.  SHAREHOLDERS’ RIGHTS

1.  Convening a special general meeting

Pursuant to the Bermuda Companies Act and the Company’s Bye-law, the shareholder(s) of the Company holding not 
less than one-tenth of the paid up capital of the Company having the right to vote at general meetings of the Company 
shall have the right, by written requisition sent to the Company’s registered office at Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, 
Hamilton  HM11,  Bermuda  and  to  the  Company’s  principal  office  at  33rd  Floor,  Harbour  Centre,  25  Harbour  Road, 
Wanchai, Hong Kong, for the attention of the Company Secretary of the Company, to require a special general meeting 
(the “SGM”) to be called by the Board for the transaction of any business specified in such requisition.

The written requisition must state the purposes of the general meeting, signed by the shareholder(s) concerned and may 
consist of several documents in like form, each signed by one or more of those shareholders.

Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  Company’s  branch  share  registrar  (the  “Registrar”)  that  the  shareholder(s) 
submitting the requisition is/are qualified to attend and vote at any general meeting, the Company will convene a SGM 
by serving sufficient notice in accordance with the statutory requirements to all the registered shareholders.

2.  Putting forward proposals at general meetings

The shareholder(s) of the Company holding (i) not less than one-twentieth of the total voting rights of all shareholders 
having the right to vote at the general meeting of the Company; or (ii) not less than 100 shareholders of the Company, 
can submit:

(i)  a written request stating the resolution intended to be moved at an annual general meeting; or

(ii)  a statement of not more than 1,000 words with respect to the matter referred to in any proposed resolution or the 

business to be dealt with at a particular general meeting.

The  written  request/statement  must  be  signed  by  the  shareholder(s)  concerned  and  deposited  at  the  Company’s 
registered office at Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda and to the Company’s principal office 
at 33rd Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong, for the attention of the Company Secretary of 
the Company, not less than six weeks before the annual general meeting in the case of a requisition requiring notice of a 
resolution and not less than one week before the general meeting in the case of any other requisition.

Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  Registrar  of  the  Company  that  the  shareholder(s)  making  the  proposal  is/are 
qualified to attend and vote at the general meeting, the Company will:

(i) 

include the resolution in the agenda for the annual general meeting; or

(ii)  circulate the statement for the general meeting,

provided that the shareholder(s) concerned have deposited a sum of money sufficient to meet the Company’s expenses 
in serving the notice of the resolution and/or circulating the statement to all the registered shareholders.

3.  Putting enquiries to the Board

Shareholders  who  have  enquiries  to  put  to  the  Board  of  the  Company  may  write  to  the  Company  Secretary  of  the 
Company at 31st Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong.

8585

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

4.  Dividends

Shareholders  of  the  same  class  of  shares  shall  have  equal  rights  to  dividends  and  distributions.  In  2018,  the  Company 
has formally adopted a dividend policy (the “Dividend Policy”) that balances the objectives of appropriately rewarding 
the  shareholders  for  their  investment  and  retaining  reserves  for  long-term  development  and  future  expansion  of  the 
Company, and enhances transparency facilitating shareholders and investors to make informed investment decisions.

The Dividend Policy has a target annual dividend payout of 25% of the consolidated net profit attributed to shareholders 
in any financial year whether as interim and/or final dividends, subject to, inter alia, the financial performance, liquidity 
position,  future  plans  and  working  capital  requirements  of  the  Company  and  the  prevailing  economic,  financial, 
business and regulatory circumstances. The Company may also declare special dividends from time to time in addition 
to the semi-annual dividends.

The  declaration  of  dividends  is  subject  to  the  sole  discretion  of  the  Board.  There  can  be  no  assurance  that  dividends 
will  be  paid  in  any  particular  amount  of  any  given  period.  The  Dividend  Policy  shall  not  constitute  a  legally  binding 
document in respect of future dividend declaration of the Company and/or in no way oblige the Company to declare a 
dividend at any time or from time to time. The distribution and payment of dividends of the Company will be subject to 
compliance with the Company’s Bye-laws and applicable laws and regulations.

Details of the dividend paid by the Company during the year 2018 are set out on page 146 of this annual report.

E.  INVESTOR RELATIONS

The Company continues to promote and enhance investor relations and communication with its investors. The Company’s 
investor  relations  team  maintains  regular  dialogue  with  institutional  investors,  analysts  and  fund  managers  to  keep  them 
abreast of the Group’s development.

Shareholders, investors and members of the public are able to access up-to-date corporate information and events related to 
the Group on the Company’s website.

1.  Shareholdings Information

As at 31st December 2018:

Authorised  share  capital:  US$205,000,000,  comprising  900,000,000  ordinary  shares  of  US$0.1  each,  65,000,000  limited 
voting convertible redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each and 50,000,000 redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each.

Issued and fully-paid up capital: US$62,579,329.7 comprising 625,793,297 ordinary shares of US$0.1 each.

Details of the shareholding of the ordinary shares of the Company by the type of shareholders as at 31st December 2018 
are as follows:

Number of 
Shareholders

Shareholders 
% of total

Number 
of Shares

624,731,734
1,061,563

3.0769%
96.9231%

18
567

585

100.00%

625,793,297

Type of Shareholders

Corporate
Individual

Total

86

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Corporate Governance Report

Details of the shareholding of the ordinary shares of the Company by range as at 31st December 2018 are as follows:

Size of shareholdings

1 – 10,000

10,001 – 100,000

100,001 – 1,000,000

1,000,001 or above

Total

2.  Public Float

Number of 

Shareholders 

Shareholders

568

13

1

3

585

% of total

97.0940%

2.2222%

0.1710%

0.5128%

100.00%

Based on information that is publicly available to the Company and within the knowledge of the Directors, the Company 

maintained at least 25% of public float as at 31st December 2018.

3.  Financial Calendar

Important dates for the coming financial year are set out on page 59 of this annual report.

4.  Memorandum of Association and Bye-Laws

There  are  no  changes  to  the  memorandum  of  association  and  bye-laws  of  the  Company  (the  “Constitutional 

Documents”)  during  the  year  2018.  The  consolidated  version  of  the  Constitutional  Documents  is  available  on  the 

Company’s website and on the HKEXnews website.

8787

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Report of the Directors

Report of the Directors

The  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Company  (the  “Board”)  presents  this  report  together  with  the  audited  consolidated  financial 
statements for the year ended 31st December 2018.

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

The principal activity of the Company is investment holding and the activities of its principal subsidiaries, associated companies 
and joint ventures are set out on pages 175 to 183 of this annual report.

GROUP RESULTS

The consolidated results of the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Group”) are set out on page 105 of 
this annual report.

DIVIDENDS

The Board did not declare the payment of an interim dividend for the year ended 31st December 2018.

The Board has recommended the payment of a final dividend of US7.7 cents (HK$0.601 at the exchange rate of US$1: HK$7.8) 
per ordinary share for the year ended 31st December 2018 to be paid on 2nd July 2019 to the shareholders of the Company whose 
names appear on the register of members of the Company on 28th May 2019. Shareholders should complete the dividend election 
form  (if  applicable)  and  return  it  to  the  Company’s  Hong  Kong  branch  share  registrar,  Computershare  Hong  Kong  Investor 
Services Limited at 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong, not later than 4:30 p.m. on 20th 
June 2019.

BUSINESS REVIEW

A  review  of  the  business  of  the  Group  and  an  analysis  of  the  Group’s  performance  during  the  year  are  provided  in  Chairman’s 
Statement on pages 10 to 13, Operations Review on pages 14 to 23 and Financial Review sections on pages 34 to 49 of this annual 
report.  Description  of  the  principal  risks  and  uncertainties  that  the  Group  is  facing  can  be  found  in  Chairman’s  Statement  on 
pages 10 to 13 and Operations Review on pages 14 to 23. Also, the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group 
can  be  found  in  note  3  to  the  consolidated  financial  statements.  No  important  events  affecting  the  Group  have  occurred  since 
the  end  of  the  financial  year  ended  31st  December  2018.  The  Group’s  future  business  development  is  provided  in  Chairman’s 
Statement  on  pages  10  to  13  and  Operations  Review  on  pages  14  to  23  of  this  annual  report.  In  addition,  discussions  on  the 
Group’s  environmental  policies  and  performance  and  compliance  with  the  relevant  laws  and  regulations  and  an  account  of  the 
Group’s  key  relationships  with  its  employees,  customers  and  suppliers  and  stakeholders,  that  have  a  significant  impact  on  the 
Group are contained in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 24 to 33 of this annual report and in the Company’s 2018 
Sustainability Report to be published in accordance with the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of 
Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”).

On 7th July 2017, it was jointly announced by Faulkner Global Holdings Limited (“COSCO SHIPPING Offeror”), Shanghai Port 
Group (BVI) Development Co., Limited (“SIPG Offeror”, collectively with COSCO SHIPPING Offeror the “Joint Offerors”) and 
COSCO SHIPPING Holdings Co., Ltd. (“COSCO SHIPPING Holdings”) and the Company that UBS AG Hong Kong Branch, on 
behalf of the Joint Offerors, made a pre-conditional voluntary general cash offer to acquire all of the issued shares of the Company 
at an offer price in cash of HK$78.67 per share of the Company (the “Offer”), subject only to the satisfaction or waiver of the pre-
conditions (the “Pre-conditions”).

On  29th  June  2018,  the  Joint  Offerors,  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  and  the  Company  jointly  announced  that  all  the 
Pre-conditions were satisfied. Further information of the Offer, the close of the Offer and the restoration of public float are set out 
in the composite document dated 6th July 2018 and the joint announcements dated 27th July 2018 and 17th August 2018.

88

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Report of the Directors

DIRECTORS
The Directors of the Company during the year and up to the date of this report were:

Executive Directors

Mr. Xu Lirong (Chairman) (Note 1)
Mr. Huang Xiaowen (Chief Executive Officer) (Note 1)
Mr. Wang Haimin (Note 1)
Mr. Zhang Wei (Note 1)
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Tung Chee Chen (Note 2)
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan (Note 2)

Non-Executive Directors

Mr. Yan Jun (Note 1)
Ms. Wang Dan (Note 1)
Mr. Ip Sing Chi (Note 1)
Ms. Cui Hongqin (Note 1)
Professor Roger King (Note 2)

Independent Non-Executive Directors

Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson (Note 1)
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip (Note 1)
Ms. Chen Ying (Note 1)
Mr. Simon Murray (Note 2)
Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward (Note 2)
Mr. Kwok King Man Clement (Note 2)

Notes:

1. 

2. 

appointed as Directors of the Company with effect from 3rd August 2018.

resigned as Directors of the Company with effect from 3rd August 2018.

In accordance with bye-law 86(2) of the Bye-laws of the Company (the “Bye-laws”), Mr. Xu Lirong, Mr. Huang Xiaowen, Mr. Wang 
Haimin,  Mr.  Zhang  Wei,  Mr.  Yan  Jun,  Ms.  Wang  Dan,  Mr.  Ip  Sing  Chi,  Ms.  Cui  Hongqin,  Dr.  Chung  Shui  Ming  Timpson,  Mr. 
Yang Liang Yee Philip and Ms. Chen Ying, appointed as Directors of the Company on 3rd August 2018, will hold office until the 
next following annual general meeting of the Company to be held on 17th May 2019 (the “Annual General Meeting”) and, being 
eligible, will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.

In addition, in accordance with bye-law 87(2) of the Bye-laws, Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard will retire by rotation. Professor 
Wong Yue Chim Richard has informed the Board that he will not offer himself for re-election pursuant to bye-law 87(4)(c) of the 
Bye-laws and accordingly will retire as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from the conclusion of 
the Annual General Meeting.

None  of  the  Directors  has  a  service  contract  with  the  Company  or  any  of  its  subsidiaries  which  is  not  determinable  by  the 
employing company within one year without payment of compensation, other than statutory compensation.

The  Company  has  received  from  each  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company,  confirmation  of  his  independence 
pursuant to rule 3.13 of the Listing Rules and considers all of them are independent.

8989

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Report of the Directors

DIRECTORS’ RIGHTS TO ACQUIRE SHARES OR DEBENTURES
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries was a party to any arrangement to enable the Directors of the Company to acquire 
benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate at any time during 
the year or at the end of the year.

DIRECTORS’ AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S INTEREST

1.  Significant Contracts

The Group shares the rental of office premises at Harbour Centre, Hong Kong on an actual cost reimbursement basis with 
Island  Navigation  Corporation  International  Limited  (“INCIL”),  which  is  owned  by  Tung  family  trusts.  Such  arrangement 
continued during the year 2018, and the total amount of rental on an actual cost reimbursement basis paid by INCIL to the 
Group for the year ended 31st December 2018 was approximately US$1,621,000.

Yuensung Investment Company Limited (“Yuensung”), a company controlled by Mr. C U Tung, the uncle of Mr. Tung Chee 
Chen (who ceased to be Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director of the Company on 3rd August 
2018), also shared the rental of an office premises at Harbour Centre, Hong Kong with our Group during the year 2018. Such 
arrangement was terminated as of 31st December 2018 and the total amount of rental on an actual cost reimbursement basis 
paid by Yuensung to the Group for the year ended 31st December 2018 was approximately US$92,000.

Except for the above (other than contracts amongst Group companies), no other contracts or arrangements of significance in 
relation to the Group’s business to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party, and in which a Director of the 
Company had a material interest, subsisted at the year end or at any time during the year.

2.  Shares

As at 31st December 2018, the issued share capital of the Company consisted of 625,793,297 ordinary shares (the “Shares”). 
The  interests  and  short  positions  of  the  Directors  and  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Company  in  the  Shares,  the  underlying 
Shares  and  the  debentures  of  the  Company  or  any  of  its  associated  corporations  (within  the  meaning  of  Part  XV  of  the 
Securities and Futures Ordinance (“SFO”)) as recorded in the register kept by the Company pursuant to Section 352 of the 
SFO or otherwise notified to the Company and The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Stock Exchange”) pursuant 
to  the  Model  Code  for  Securities  Transactions  by  Directors  of  Listed  Issuers  (the  “Model  Code”)  contained  in  the  Listing 
Rules, were as follows as at 31st December 2018:

(a)  Long positions in the Shares, underlying Shares and debentures of the Company:

Nil

(b)  Long Positions in the shares, underlying shares and debentures of associated corporation of the Company:

Name of 
associated 
corporation

Name of 
Director

COSCO SHIPPING  
Ports Limited

Zhang Wei

Capacity

Beneficial 
owner

Number of 
ordinary 
shares held 
as personal 
interest

306,896

Number of 
outstanding 
share options 
granted

1,500,000 
(Note)

Total number 
of interests

Percentage

1,806,896

0.06%

90

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Report of the Directors

Note:

The share options were granted on 19th June 2018 under the Share Option Scheme of COSCO SHIPPING Ports Limited (“COSCO SHIPPING 
Ports”) at an exercise price of HK$7.27 per share. These share options are exercisable from 19th June 2020 to 18th June 2023. According to the 
terms of the COSCO SHIPPING Ports Share Option Scheme, options under each grant have a validity period of five years commencing from 
the date of grant and cannot be exercised during the two-year period commencing from the date of grant (the “Restriction Period”). Besides, 
subject to the fulfilment of the relevant vesting conditions, share options will be vested in three batches evenly over a period of three years after 

the expiry of the Restriction Period, i.e. (a) 33.3% of the share options will be vested on 19th June 2020; (b) 33.3% of the share options will be 

vested on 19th June 2021; and (c) 33.4% of the share options will be vested on 19th June 2022. Details of the vesting conditions for the share 
options are set out in the section headed “11. Performance Target before the Options can be granted and vested — Performance Conditions for 
the vesting of Share Options” in the circular of the COSCO SHIPPING Ports dated 18th May 2018. No consideration was paid by the grantees 
for the acceptance of share option.

Save  as  disclosed  above,  as  at  31st  December  2018,  none  of  the  Directors  or  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Company  had  any 
interest  or  short  position  in  the  Shares,  the  underlying  Shares  and  the  debentures  of  the  Company  or  any  of  its  associated 
corporation (within the meaning of the SFO) which were required to be: (a) notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange 
pursuant to Divisions 7 and 8 of Part XV of the SFO (including interests and short positions which they are taken or deemed 
to have under such provisions of the SFO); or (b) entered in the register kept by the Company pursuant to Section 352 of the 
SFO; or (c) notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange pursuant to the Model Code.

3.  Directors’ Interests in Competing Business

During  the  year  of  2018,  Mr.  Xu  Lirong,  Mr.  Huang  Xiaowen,  Mr.  Wang  Haimin  and  Mr.  Zhang  Wei,  Executive  Directors 

of  the  Company,  held  directorships  and/or  senior  management  positions  in  China  COSCO  SHIPPING  Corporation 

Limited, an indirect controlling shareholder of the Company, its subsidiaries or its associates which are engaged in the same 

business of container shipping, management and operation of container terminals and/or logistics services (the “Competing 

Companies”) as the Group.

As  the  Board  of  the  Company  is  independent  of  the  board  of  directors  of  the  Competing  Companies,  the  Directors  of  the 

Company are of the view that the Group is capable of carrying on its business independently of, and at arm’s length from the 

businesses of the Competing Companies.

Save as disclosed above, and to the best knowledge of the Directors of the Company, none of the Directors of the Company 

had an interest in any business which competes or is likely to compete, either directly or indirectly, with the business of the 

Group during the year.

MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS

No contracts concerning the management and administration of the whole or any substantial part of any business of the Company 

were entered into during the year or subsisted at the end of the year.

9191

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Report of the Directors

SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS’ SHARE INTEREST
As at 31st December 2018, the following persons (other than the Directors or the Chief Executive of the Company) had an interest 
or short position in the Shares and the underlying Shares which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of 
Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO as recorded in the register required to be kept by the Company under Section 336 of the 
SFO:

Name

Nature of interest

Number of Shares interested 
(Long position)

Percentage

Faulkner Global Holdings Limited

Beneficial owner

469,344,972

COSCO SHIPPING Holdings  

(Hong Kong) Limited

COSCO SHIPPING Holdings Co., Ltd.

China Ocean Shipping Company  

Limited

China COSCO SHIPPING Corporation 

Limited

Interest of controlled 
corporation

Interest of controlled 
corporation

Interest of controlled 
corporation

Interest of controlled 
corporation

469,344,972 (Note 1)

469,344,972 (Note 2)

469,344,972 (Note 3)

469,344,972 (Note 4)

Shanghai Port Group (BVI) Development 

Beneficial owner

61,953,536

Co., Limited

Shanghai International Port Group  

(HK) Co., Ltd.

Shanghai International Port (Group)  

Co., Ltd.

PSD Investco Inc.

Green Amber Investment Limited

Silk Road Fund Co., Ltd.

Buttonwood Investment Platform Ltd.

Notes:

Interest of controlled 
corporation

Interest of controlled 
corporation

61,953,536 (Note 5)

61,953,536 (Note 6)

Beneficial owner

38,513,150

Interest of controlled 
corporation

Interest of controlled 
corporation

Interest of controlled 
corporation

38,513,150 (Note 7)

38,513,150 (Note 8)

38,513,150 (Note 9)

75%

75%

75%

75%

75%

9.90%

9.90%

9.90%

6.15%

6.15%

6.15%

6.15%

COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  (Hong  Kong)  Limited  (“COSCO  SHIPPING  HK”)  holds  100%  of  the  shares  of  Faulkner  Global  Holdings  Limited 
(“Faulkner”) and, accordingly, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Faulkner has an interest.

COSCO SHIPPING Holdings Co., Ltd. (“COSCO SHIPPING Holdings”) holds 100% of the shares of COSCO SHIPPING HK and, accordingly, has 
an indirect interest in the same Shares in which COSCO SHIPPING HK has an interest.

China  Ocean  Shipping  Company  Limited  (“China  Ocean”)  holds  45.47%  of  the  shares  of  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  and,  accordingly,  has  an 
indirect interest in the same Shares in which COSCO SHIPPING Holdings has an interest.

China  COSCO  SHIPPING  Corporation  Limited  (“China  COSCO  SHIPPING”)  holds  100%  of  the  shares  of  China  Ocean  and,  accordingly,  has 
an  indirect  interest  in  the  same  Shares  in  which  China  Ocean  has  an  interest.  Both  China  Ocean  and  China  COSCO  SHIPPING  are  state-owned 
enterprises established in the People’s Republic of China.

Shanghai International Port Group (HK) Co., Ltd. (“SIPG HK”) holds 100% of the shares of Shanghai Port Group (BVI) Development Co., Limited 
(“SIPG BVI”) and, accordingly, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which SIPG BVI has an interest.

Shanghai International Port (Group) Co., Ltd. holds 100% of the shares of SIPG HK and, accordingly, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in 
which SIPG HK has an interest.

Green Amber Investment Limited (“Green Amber”) holds 100% of the shares of PSD Investco Inc. (“PSD”) and, accordingly, has an indirect interest 
in the same Shares in which PSD has an interest.

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

92

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Report of the Directors

8. 

9. 

Silk Road Fund Co., Ltd. (“Silk Road Fund”) holds 100% of the shares of Green Amber and, accordingly, has an indirect interest in the same Shares 
in which Green Amber has an interest.

Buttonwood  Investment  Platform  Ltd.  holds  65%  of  the  shares  of  Silk  Road  Fund  and,  accordingly,  has  an  indirect  interest  in  the  same  Shares  in 
which Silk Road Fund has an interest.

Save as disclosed herein, as at 31st December 2018, the Company has not been notified by any person (other than the Directors 
or the Chief Executive of the Company) who had an interest or short position in the Shares or the underlying Shares which were 
required to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO, or which were recorded 
in the register required to be kept by the Company under Section 336 of the SFO.

CONNECTED TRANSACTIONS
During  the  year  ended  31st  December  2018,  the  Group  had  the  following  continuing  connected  transactions  (the  “Continuing 
Connected Transactions”):

(1)  Continuing Connected Transactions constituted by the following agreements entered into by 

OOCL (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. (“OTWL”), a previous Taiwanese subsidiary of the Group:

a)  CMT Master Agreement

Pursuant  to  a  master  agreement  dated  29th  June  2005,  as  supplemented  by  the  supplemental  agreements  dated  10th 
December 2007, 15th December 2010, 4th December 2013 and 5th December 2016 (the “CMT Master Agreement”), all 
entered  into  between  OTWL  and  Chinese  Maritime  Transport  Ltd.  (“CMT”),  CMT  agreed  to  provide  and  to  procure 
members  of  the  CMT  group  to  provide  various  services  to  the  Group  including,  inter  alia,  (i)  trucking  service;  (ii) 
leasing  of  equipment  (including  chassis  and  tractors);  (iii)  maintenance  and  repair  services  for  generator  sets  and 
chassis;  (iv)  freight  station  depot  and  container  storage  facilities;  (v)  container  yard  and  gate  services;  and  (vi)  crew 
manning services, for successive periods of three years subject to the annual caps of US$57,800,000, US$60,700,000 and 
US$63,800,000 for the financial years of 2017, 2018 and 2019 respectively.

b)  AII Master Agreement

Pursuant  to  a  master  agreement  dated  29th  June  2005,  as  supplemented  by  the  supplemental  agreement  dated  10th 
December 2007, 15th December 2010, 4th December 2013 and 5th December 2016 (the “AII Master Agreement”), all 
entered into between OTWL and Associated International Inc. (“AII”), AII agreed to provide and to procure members 
of the AII group to provide various services to the Group including, inter alia, (i) provision of office premises; and (ii) 
freight station depot and container storage facilities, for successive periods of three years subject to the annual caps of 
US$2,800,000 for each of the financial years of 2017, 2018 and 2019.

Mr. John Peng is the controlling shareholder of CMT and AII, and a deemed connected person of certain then Directors 
and substantial shareholders of the Company. Mr. Peng and accordingly CMT and AII are therefore connected persons 
of the Company as defined in the Listing Rules.

The  arrangements  with  CMT  group  and  AII  group  ceased  as  connected  transactions  following  the  change  of  the 
Company’s controlling shareholder and the sale of the Group’s two Taiwanese companies, including OTWL.

During the period from 1st January 2018 to 30th June 2018, US$13,089,000 was paid by OTWL to the CMT group for 
the services under CMT Master Agreement and US$540,000 was paid by OTWL to the AII group for the services under 
AII Master Agreement.

(2)  Continuing Connected Transactions constituted by the following agreements entered into by the 

Company (for itself and on behalf of its subsidiaries and associates)

Prior  to  completion  of  the  Offer,  both  the  Group  and  China  COSCO  SHIPPING  and  its  subsidiaries  and  associates 
(collectively the “COSCO SHIPPING Group”) have been providing each other various liner, logistics, bunker, terminal and 
equipment procurement services (as the case may be). On 24th July 2018, China COSCO SHIPPING has become an indirect 
controlling  shareholder  of  the  Company.  Accordingly,  members  of  the  COSCO  SHIPPING  Group  are  connected  persons 
of  the  Company  as  defined  in  the  Listing  Rules.  As  such,  the  following  agreements  entered  into  between  the  Company 
and  China  COSCO  SHIPPING  on  24th  July  2018  for  continuation  of  the  aforesaid  services  which  constitute  continuing 
connected transactions of the Company.

9393

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Report of the Directors

a)  Business Master Agreement

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 24th July 2018 entered into between the Company (for itself and on behalf of its 
subsidiaries  and  associates)  and  China  COSCO  SHIPPING  (for  itself  and  on  behalf  of  its  subsidiaries  and  associates), 
both  parties  agreed  to  provide  and  to  procure  members  of  its  group  to  provide  to  each  other  services  related  to 
containerized  liner,  logistics  and  information  technology  (the  “Business  Master  Agreement”).  The  Business  Master 
Agreement is for a term ending on 31st December 2019 and is subject to renewal for successive periods of three years.

The  following  table  is  a  summary  of  the  annual  caps  for  each  of  the  transactions  contemplated  under  the  Business 
Master Agreement for the financial years ended 31st December 2018 and 2019 and the transaction amounts for the six 
months ended 31st December 2018.

Types of services under 
the Business Master Agreement

Provision of services by COSCO SHIPPING Group
(A)  Liner services

(i)  network services
(ii)  operation services
(iii)  vessel operating common carrier services
(iv)  other services, including

– information technology services
– vessels

(B)  Logistics services including non-vessel operating 

common carrier services, international supply chain 
services, and domestic logistics services

(C)  Other contractual arrangements, including office 

leases

(D)  Other services, including use of common facilities, 
ad-hoc use of business facilities and crew manning 
service/manning agency service

Provision of services to COSCO SHIPPING Group
(A)  Liner services

(i)  network services
(ii)  operation services
(iii)  vessel operating common carrier services
(iv)  other services, including

– information technology services
– vessels

(B)  Logistics services including non-vessel operating 

common carrier services, international supply chain 
services, and domestic logistics services

(C)  Other contractual arrangements, including office 

leases

(D)  Other services, including use of common facilities, 
ad-hoc use of business facilities and crew manning 
service/manning agency service

Transaction 
amounts from 
July to 
December 2018
(US$’000)

Annual Caps 
Year 2018
(US$’000)

Annual Caps 
Year 2019
(US$’000)

20,999
25,110
–

–
10,966

2,695

176

569

15,346
740
39,333

593
–

471

170

–

50,000
120,000
2,000

2,000
20,000

6,000

5,000

8,000

60,000
5,000
120,000

5,000
5,000

6,000

5,000

5,000

60,000
132,000
2,400

2,400
66,153

7,200

6,000

9,600

72,000
6,000
132,000

67,597
28,000

7,200

6,000

6,000

94

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Report of the Directors

b)  Bunker Master Agreement

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 24th July 2018 entered into between the Company (for itself and on behalf of its 

subsidiaries  and  associates)  and  China  COSCO  SHIPPING  (for  itself  and  on  behalf  of  its  subsidiaries  and  associates), 

COSCO SHIPPING Group agreed to sell and to procure members of its group to sell bunker, fuel and oil to the Group 
(the “Bunker Master Agreement”). The Bunker Master Agreement is for a term ending on 31st December 2019 and is 

subject to renewal for successive periods of three years.

The  annual  caps  for  the  transactions  contemplated  under  the  Bunker  Master  Agreement  for  the  financial  years  ended 

31st December 2018 and 2019 are US$250,000,000 and US$280,000,000 respectively.

For the six months ended 31st December 2018, US$133,078,000 was paid by the Group to COSCO SHIPPING Group 

for the purchase of bunker, fuel and oil.

c)  Terminal Master Agreement

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 24th July 2018 entered into between the Company (for itself and on behalf of its 

subsidiaries  and  associates)  and  China  COSCO  SHIPPING  (for  itself  and  on  behalf  of  its  subsidiaries  and  associates), 

both  parties  agreed  to  provide  and  to  procure  members  of  its  group  to  provide  to  each  other  terminal  services  and 
related  services  (the  “Terminal  Master  Agreement”).  The  Terminal  Master  Agreement  is  for  a  term  ending  on  31st 

December 2019 and is subject to renewal for successive periods of three years.

The  following  table  is  a  summary  of  the  annual  caps  for  each  of  the  transactions  contemplated  under  the  Terminal 

Master Agreement for the financial years ended 31st December 2018 and 2019 and the transaction amounts for the six 

months ended 31st December 2018.

Transaction 

amounts from 

July to December 

Annual Caps 

Annual Caps 

2018 
(US$’000) 

Year 2018 
(US$’000)

Year 2019 
(US$’000)

Provision of services by COSCO SHIPPING Group

Provision of services to COSCO SHIPPING Group

54,558

12,139

240,000

80,000

280,000

96,000

d)  Equipment Procurement Master Agreement

Pursuant  to  a  master  agreement  dated  24th  July  2018  entered  into  between  the  Company  (for  itself  and  on  behalf 

of  its  subsidiaries  and  associates)  and  China  COSCO  SHIPPING  (for  itself  and  on  behalf  of  its  subsidiaries  and 

associates),  both  parties  agreed  to  provide  and  to  procure  members  of  its  group  to  provide  to  each  other  services 
relating to equipment procurement including container acquisition and pooling (the “Equipment Procurement Master 
Agreement”).  The  Equipment  Procurement  Master  Agreement  is  for  a  term  ending  on  31st  December  2019  and  is 

subject to renewal for successive periods of three years.

9595

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Report of the Directors

The  following  table  is  a  summary  of  the  annual  caps  for  each  of  the  transactions  contemplated  under  the  Equipment 
Procurement  Master  Agreement  for  the  financial  years  ended  31st  December  2018  and  2019  and  the  transaction 
amounts for the six months ended 31st December 2018.

Transaction 
amounts from 
July to December 
2018
(US$’000)

Annual Caps 
Year 2018
(US$’000)

Annual Caps 
Year 2019
(US$’000)

Provision of services by COSCO SHIPPING Group
Provision of services to COSCO SHIPPING Group

95,333
–

280,000
15,000

280,000
20,000

China  COSCO  SHIPPING  is  an  indirect  controlling  shareholder  of  the  Company.  Accordingly,  members  of  COSCO 
SHIPPING Group are connected persons of the Company as defined in the Listing Rules.

Pursuant  to  rule  14A.55  of  the  Listing  Rules,  the  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors  of  the  Company,  namely 
Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  Professor  Wong  Yue  Chim  Richard,  Dr.  Chung  Shui  Ming  Timpson,  Mr.  Yang  Liang  Yee 
Philip and Ms. Chen Ying, have reviewed the Continuing Connected Transactions and confirmed that the Continuing 
Connected  Transactions  have  been  entered  into  (a)  in  the  ordinary  and  usual  course  of  business  of  the  Group;  (b)  on 
normal commercial terms or better; and (c) according to the relevant agreements governing them on terms that are fair 
and reasonable and in the interests of the shareholders of the Company as a whole.

The  Company’s  auditor  was  engaged  to  report  on  the  Group’s  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  in  accordance 
with Hong Kong Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) “Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or 
Reviews of Historical Financial Information” and with reference to Practice Note 740 “Auditor’s Letter on Continuing 
Connected  Transactions  under  the  Hong  Kong  Listing  Rules”  issued  by  the  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified  Public 
Accountants.  The  auditor  has  issued  his  unqualified  letter  containing  the  findings  and  conclusions  in  respect  of  the 
Continuing Connected Transactions as disclosed above in accordance with rule 14A.56 of the Listing Rules and nothing 
has come to his attention that causes him to believe that the disclosed Continuing Connected Transactions:

(i)  have not been approved by the Board of Directors of the Company;

(ii)  which  involve  provision  of  goods  or  services  by  the  Group,  were  not  entered  into,  in  all  material  respects,  in 

accordance with the pricing policies of the Group;

(iii)  were  not  entered  into,  in  all  material  respects,  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  agreements  governing  the 

transactions; and

(iv)  have  exceeded  the  maximum  aggregate  annual  caps  in  respect  of  each  of  the  disclosed  Continuing  Connected 

Transactions.

PERMITTED INDEMNITY
Pursuant  to  the  Bye-laws  of  the  Company  and  subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  statutes,  every  Director  of  the  Company  shall  be 
indemnified and secured harmless out of the assets and profits of the Company from and against all actions, costs, charges, losses, 
damages  and  expenses  which  he  may  incur  or  sustain  in  or  about  the  execution  of  his  duty;  provided  that  the  indemnity  shall 
not  extend  to  any  matter  in  respect  of  any  wilful  negligence,  wilful  default,  fraud  or  dishonesty  which  may  attach  to  any  of  the 
Directors.

Since 1992, the Company has arranged insurance cover for directors’ and officers’ liabilities including cover for Directors, officers 
and senior management of the Group arising out of the corporate activities of the Group.

96

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Report of the Directors

Report of the Directors

PURCHASE, SALE OR REDEMPTION OF SHARES

During the year ended 31st December 2018, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries had purchased, sold or redeemed any 

of the Company’s Shares.

PRE-EMPTIVE RIGHTS

No pre-emptive rights exist under Bermudan law in relation to the issue of new shares by the Company.

SHARE CAPITAL

Details of the shares of the Company issued during the year are set out in note 37 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 

166 and 167 of this annual report.

RESERVES

Movements during the year in the reserves of the Group and the Company are set out in note 38 and note 47 to the consolidated 

financial statements on pages 167 and 174 of this annual report.

EQUITY-LINKED AGREEMENTS

For the year ended 31st December 2018, the Company had not entered into any equity-linked agreement.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The  Board  and  management  of  the  Company  are  committed  to  maintaining  high  standards  of  corporate  governance  and  the 

Company  considers  that  effective  corporate  governance  makes  an  important  contribution  to  corporate  success  and  to  the 

enhancement of shareholder value.

The Company has adopted its own corporate governance code (the “CG Code”), which in addition to applying the principles as 

set out in the Corporate Governance Code (the “SEHK Code”) contained in Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules, also incorporates 

and conforms to local and international best practices. The CG Code sets out the corporate governance principles applied by the 

Group and is constantly reviewed to ensure transparency, accountability and independence. Further information on the CG Code 

is set out in the corporate governance report (the “Corporate Governance Report”) on pages 62 to 87 of this annual report.

Throughout the year of 2018, the Company complied with the SEHK Code, except as set out in the Corporate Governance Report.

PUBLIC FLOAT

Based on the information that is publicly available to the Company and within the knowledge of the Directors of the Company, 

as at the date of this report, there was sufficient public float of at least 25% of the Company’s issued Shares as required under the 

Listing Rules.

DONATIONS

Donations made by the Group during the year amount to US$265,000.

9797

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Report of the Directors

ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

The Annual General Meeting will be held on 17th May 2019.

A circular containing, inter alia, (i) a notice convening the Annual General Meeting; (ii) details of the retiring Directors to be re-

elected at the Annual General Meeting; (iii) the general mandate to authorise the allotment of and otherwise dealing with shares of 

all classes in the capital of the Company and securities convertible into shares and options, warrants or similar rights to subscribe 

for  shares  or  such  convertible  securities;  and  (iv)  the  general  mandate  to  authorise  the  repurchase  of  the  Company’s  securities 

together with a proxy form will be despatched to the shareholders of the Company on or around 10th April 2019.

COMPANY SECRETARY

The Company Secretary of the Company is Ms. Lammy Lee, Barrister.

AUDITOR

The  Group’s  consolidated  financial  statements  have  been  audited  by  PricewaterhouseCoopers  who  will  retire  at  the  Annual 

General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.

On behalf of the Board

Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Xu Lirong

Chairman

Hong Kong, 22nd March 2019

98

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018Index – Financial Information

Index – Financial Information

Summary of significant accounting policies
Financial risk management

Content
Independent Auditor’s Report
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1.  General information
2. 
3. 
4.  Critical accounting estimates and judgements
5.  Revenue and segment information
6.  Operating costs
7.  Other operating income
8.  Other (losses)/gains, net
9.  Employee benefit expense
10.  Directors’ and management’s emoluments
11.  Operating profit
12.  Finance costs
13.  Taxation
14.  Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share
15.  Dividends
16.  Discontinued operation
17.  Property, plant and equipment
18.  Investment property
19.  Prepayments of lease premiums
20.  Joint ventures
21.  Associated companies
22.  Intangible assets
23.  Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities)
24.  Pension and retirement benefits
25.  Restricted bank balances
26.  Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income/available-for-sale financial assets
27.  Investments at amortised cost/held-to-maturity investments
28.  Other non-current assets
29.  Inventories
30.  Debtors and prepayments
31.  Amounts due from joint ventures
32.  Amounts due from fellow subsidiaries
33.  Amounts due from related companies
34.  Portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss
35.  Derivative financial instruments
36.  Cash and bank balances
37.  Share capital
38.  Reserves
39.  Borrowings
40.  Creditors and accruals
41.  Amounts due to joint ventures
42.  Amounts due to fellow subsidiaries
43.  Amounts due to related companies
44.  Commitments
45.  Notes to consolidated cash flow statement
46.  Related party transactions
47.  Company balance sheet
48.  Approval of consolidated financial statements
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures

Page no.
100
105
106
107
109
110

111
111
129
134
135
140
140
141
141
142
144
144
145
146
146
147
150
152
153
153
154
154
155
157
160
161
161
162
162
163
165
165
165
165
165
166
166
167
167
169
169
169
169
170
171
173
174
174
175

99
99

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report

Independent Auditor’s Report

To the Shareholders of Orient Overseas (International) Limited

(incorporated in Bermuda with limited liability)

OPINION

What we have audited

The  consolidated  financial  statements  of  Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (the  “Company”)  and  its  subsidiaries  (the 

“Group”) set out on pages 105 to 183, which comprise:

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

the consolidated balance sheet as at 31st December 2018;

the consolidated profit and loss account for the year then ended;

the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;

the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended;

the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended; and

the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies.

Our opinion

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group 

as at 31st December 2018, and of its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended 

in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public 

Accountants  (“HKICPA”)  and  have  been  properly  prepared  in  compliance  with  the  disclosure  requirements  of  the  Hong  Kong 

Companies Ordinance.

BASIS FOR OPINION

We  conducted  our  audit  in  accordance  with  Hong  Kong  Standards  on  Auditing  (“HKSAs”)  issued  by  the  HKICPA.  Our 

responsibilities  under  those  standards  are  further  described  in  the  Auditor’s  Responsibilities  for  the  Audit  of  the  Consolidated 

Financial Statements section of our report.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence

We are independent of the Group in accordance with the HKICPA’s Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (“the Code”), and 

we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code.

KEY AUDIT MATTERS

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated 

financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial 

statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

100

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report

Key audit matters identified in our audit are summarised as follows:

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

Recognition of freight revenue over time

Provision for operating costs

Key Audit Matter

How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter

Recognition of freight revenue over time

Our procedures in relation to management’s quantification of 

freight revenue in relation to those vessel voyages which were 

Refer to notes 2.22 and 5 to the consolidated financial 

in progress at year end included:

statements.

For  the  year  ended  31st  December  2018,  the  majority 

technology general control environment of the operation 

of  the  Group’s  revenue  of  US$6,572.7  million  (2017: 

system used to record the freight revenue transactions.

(cid:127)  Understanding,  evaluating  and  testing  the  information 

US$5,981.7  million  (restated))  was  derived  from  the 

freight revenue from container transport operation.

(cid:127)  Understanding,  evaluating  and  testing  the  key  controls 

over  the  recognition  of  freight  revenue  and  receivable, 

The  Group  recognises  freight  revenue  over  time  which 

in particular relating to estimation of freight revenue for 

is  determined  on  the  time  proportion  of  each  individual 

vessel voyages in progress at the year end.

vessel voyage completed at year end with reference to their 

voyage  details  such  as  freight  rates,  departures  dates  and 

(cid:127) 

Agreeing  the  departure  dates  and  arrival  dates  of  vessel 

arrival dates.

voyages  in  progress  at  year  end  in  the  operation  system 

to the sailing schedules, on a sample basis.

The  transaction  volume  of  the  voyages  which  are  in 

progress  as  at  year  end  is  significant  and  complex 

(cid:127) 

Agreeing  the  total  freight  revenue  by  vessel  voyages  in 

calculations  are  involved  in  the  estimation  of  freight 

the operation system to the accounting records.

revenue over time.

(cid:127) 

Recomputing  the  estimated  freight  revenue  of  vessel 

voyages  which  were  in  progress  as  at  year  end  with 

reference  to  the  departure  dates  and  arrival  dates  on  a 

sample basis.

We  found  that  management’s  estimation  of  freight  revenue 

for  vessel  voyages  in  progress  at  year  end  are  supportable  by 

available evidence.

101101

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report

Key Audit Matter

How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter

Provision for operating costs

Our procedures in relation to management’s estimation of the 

Refer to notes 4(c) and 40 to the consolidated financial 

statements.

provision for operating costs included:

(cid:127)  Understanding,  evaluating  and  testing  the  information 

technology general control environment of the operation 

As  at  31st  December  2018,  included  in  the  accrued 

system  used  to  record  the  operating  costs  and  cost 

expenses  of  US$443.2  million  (2017:  US$420.7  million) 

provisioning.

was a provision for operating costs for container transport 

operation which mainly comprise cargo, vessel and voyage 

(cid:127)  Understanding,  evaluating  and  testing  the  key  controls 

costs,  equipment  and  repositioning  costs  and  terminal 

over the operating costs, cost provisioning and accounts 

operating costs.

payable cycle, in particular relating to the accuracy of the 

vendor tariffs in the operation system.

As  it  takes  several  months  to  finalise  certain  costs  with 

suppliers  subsequent  to  the  receipt  of  such  services, 

(cid:127)  Understanding and reperforming the computation of the 

management  makes  a  provision  for  such  operating  costs 

provision for operating costs, on a sample basis.

based  on  known  services  received,  pattern  of  historical 

costs and estimated vendor tariffs.

(cid:127) 

Reviewing  and  discussing  monthly  trend  analysis  for 

provision for operating costs with management to assess 

The  estimation  of  provision  for  operating  costs  involves 

the sufficiency of provisions made.

significant  judgement  taking  into  account  a  number 

of  factors,  such  as  pattern  of  historical  costs  and  the 

(cid:127) 

Checking  the  subsequent  utilisation  of  provision  for 

estimated  vendor  tariffs.  Changes  in  estimation  could 

operating  costs  to  evaluate  the  sufficiency  of  provision 

result  in  material  changes  to  the  provision  for  operating 

made.

costs.

(cid:127) 

Reviewing  paid  and  unpaid  invoices  after  year  end  to 

ascertain  whether  liabilities  have  been  recorded  in  the 

proper period, on a sample basis.

We  found  that  the  judgement  involved  in  making  the 

provision for operating costs was supportable by the available 

evidence.

102

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report

OTHER INFORMATION
The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises all of the information 
included in the annual report other than the consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.

Our  opinion  on  the  consolidated  financial  statements  does  not  cover  the  other  information  and  we  do  not  express  any  form  of 
assurance conclusion thereon.

In  connection  with  our  audit  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements,  our  responsibility  is  to  read  the  other  information  and, 
in  doing  so,  consider  whether  the  other  information  is  materially  inconsistent  with  the  consolidated  financial  statements  or  our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.

If,  based  on  the  work  we  have  performed,  we  conclude  that  there  is  a  material  misstatement  of  this  other  information,  we  are 
required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND THE AUDIT COMMITTEE FOR THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The  directors  of  the  Company  are  responsible  for  the  preparation  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements  that  give  a  true  and 
fair  view  in  accordance  with  HKFRSs  issued  by  the  HKICPA  and  the  disclosure  requirements  of  the  Hong  Kong  Companies 
Ordinance, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial 
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.

AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
Our  objectives  are  to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether  the  consolidated  financial  statements  as  a  whole  are  free  from 
material  misstatement,  whether  due  to  fraud  or  error,  and  to  issue  an  auditor’s  report  that  includes  our  opinion.  We  report  our 
opinion solely to you, as a body, in accordance with Section 90 of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda and for no other purpose. 
We  do  not  assume  responsibility  towards  or  accept  liability  to  any  other  person  for  the  contents  of  this  report.  Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with HKSAs will always detect 
a  material  misstatement  when  it  exists.  Misstatements  can  arise  from  fraud  or  error  and  are  considered  material  if,  individually 
or  in  the  aggregate,  they  could  reasonably  be  expected  to  influence  the  economic  decisions  of  users  taken  on  the  basis  of  these 
consolidated financial statements.

As  part  of  an  audit  in  accordance  with  HKSAs,  we  exercise  professional  judgement  and  maintain  professional  scepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:

(cid:127) 

Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control.

(cid:127)  Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in 
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.

(cid:127) 

Evaluate  the  appropriateness  of  accounting  policies  used  and  the  reasonableness  of  accounting  estimates  and  related 
disclosures made by the directors.

103103

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Independent Auditor’s Report

(cid:127) 

Conclude  on  the  appropriateness  of  the  directors’  use  of  the  going  concern  basis  of  accounting  and,  based  on  the  audit 

evidence  obtained,  whether  a  material  uncertainty  exists  related  to  events  or  conditions  that  may  cast  significant  doubt  on 

the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 

attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are 

inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 

report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.

(cid:127) 

Evaluate  the  overall  presentation,  structure  and  content  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements,  including  the  disclosures, 

and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves 

fair presentation.

(cid:127)  Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within 

the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision 

and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We  communicate  with  the  Audit  Committee  regarding,  among  other  matters,  the  planned  scope  and  timing  of  the  audit  and 

significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We  also  provide  the  Audit  Committee  with  a  statement  that  we  have  complied  with  relevant  ethical  requirements  regarding 

independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 

independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.

From  the  matters  communicated  with  the  Audit  Committee,  we  determine  those  matters  that  were  of  most  significance  in  the 

audit  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of  the  current  period  and  are  therefore  the  key  audit  matters.  We  describe  these 

matters  in  our  auditor’s  report  unless  law  or  regulation  precludes  public  disclosure  about  the  matter  or  when,  in  extremely  rare 

circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 

so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is Cheng Kam Fung.

PricewaterhouseCoopers

Certified Public Accountants

Hong Kong, 22nd March 2019

104

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account

For the year ended 31st December 2018

Consolidated Profit and Loss Account

For the year ended 31st December 2018

US$’000

Revenue

Operating costs

Gross profit

Fair value gain from an investment property

Other operating income

Business and administrative expenses

Other (losses)/gains, net

Operating profit

Finance costs

Share of profits of joint ventures

Share of profits of associated companies

Profit before taxation

Taxation

Profit for the year from continuing operations

Discontinued operation:

Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operation

Profit for the year

Profit attributable to:

Equity holders of the Company

Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share (US cents)

– from continuing operations

– from discontinued operation

Basic and diluted

Note

5

6

18

7

8

11

12

20

21

13

16

14

2018

6,572,655

(5,859,839)

712,816

39,500

82,521

(550,733)

(21,169)

262,935

(143,191)

2,953

11,371

134,068

(58,620)

75,448

32,718

108,166

Restated

2017

5,981,676

(5,425,783)

555,893

43,436

71,936

(459,330)

26,220

238,155

(97,418)

5,177

13,957

159,871

(12,433)

147,438

(9,782)

137,656

108,166

137,656

12.1

5.2

17.3

23.6

(1.6)

22.0

105
105

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

For the year ended 31st December 2018

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

For the year ended 31st December 2018

US$’000

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive (loss)/income:

Items that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss:

2018

108,166

Restated

2017

137,656

Remeasurement (losses)/gains on defined benefit schemes

(5,107)

10,506

Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income

– Change in fair value

Total items that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss

Items that have been reclassified or may be reclassified subsequently  

to profit or loss:

Available-for-sale financial assets

– Change in fair value

Currency translation adjustments

– Foreign subsidiaries

– Associated companies

– Joint ventures

– Release of reserve upon disposal of subsidiaries

– Release of reserve upon partial disposal of a joint venture

Total items that have been reclassified or may be reclassified 

subsequently to profit or loss

Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year, net of tax

(20,931)

(26,038)

–

10,506

–

12,492

(9,354)

(6,371)

(378)

(116)

(120)

(16,339)

(42,377)

6,978

8,505

478

–

–

28,453

38,959

Total comprehensive income for the year

65,789

176,615

Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year attributable  

to equity holders of the Company arising from:

Continuing operations

Discontinued operation

33,071

32,718

65,789

186,397

(9,782)

176,615

106

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet

As at 31st December 2018

US$’000

ASSETS

Non-current assets

Property, plant and equipment

Investment property

Prepayments of lease premiums

Joint ventures

Associated companies

Intangible assets

Deferred taxation assets

Pension and retirement assets

Restricted bank balances

Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income

Available-for-sale financial assets

Investments at amortised cost

Held-to-maturity investments

Other non-current assets

Non-current deposit with a fellow subsidiary

Current assets

Inventories

Debtors and prepayments

Amounts due from joint ventures

Amounts due from fellow subsidiaries

Amounts due from related companies

Investments at amortised cost

Held-to-maturity investments

Portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss

Derivative financial instruments

Tax recoverable

Restricted bank balances

Cash and bank balances

Assets held for sale

Total assets

EQUITY

Equity holders

Share capital

Reserves

Total equity

Consolidated Balance Sheet

As at 31st December 2018

Note

2018

2017

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

26

27

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

27

27

34

35

25

36

16

37

38

5,880,057

310,000

6,251,457

270,000

7,452

8,940

139,676

32,428

1,233

–

58,001

24,422

–

189,391

–

104,011

51,064

7,972

10,833

148,840

49,204

1,476

243

60,414

–

45,383

–

217,889

40,863

–

6,806,675

7,104,574

119,710

634,229

478

12,969

690

33,568

–

378,257

–

6,966

3,121

102,157

589,936

6,007

–

–

–

17,040

294,720

1,825

8,637

3,425

1,584,465

1,940,975

2,774,453

472,732

2,964,722

–

3,247,185

2,964,722

10,053,860

10,069,296

62,579

4,672,551

62,579

4,619,934

4,735,130

4,682,513

107
107

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31st December 2018

US$’000

LIABILITIES

Non-current liabilities

Borrowings

Deferred taxation liabilities

Pension and retirement liabilities

Other non-current liabilities

Current liabilities

Creditors and accruals

Amounts due to joint ventures

Amounts due to fellow subsidiaries

Amounts due to related companies

Borrowings

Derivative financial instruments

Current taxation

Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale

Total liabilities

Total equity and liabilities

Wang Haimin
Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Directors

Note

2018

2017

39

23

24

40

41

42

43

39

35

16

3,695,834

106,827

3,200

–

3,930,025

65,221

38

11,628

3,805,861

4,006,912

838,185

2,441

5,843

10,371

501,922

5,565

7,494

1,371,821

141,048

740,260

7,526

–

–

624,158

–

7,927

1,379,871

–

1,512,869

1,379,871

5,318,730

5,386,783

10,053,860

10,069,296

108

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement

For the year ended 31st December 2018

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement

For the year ended 31st December 2018

Note

US$’000
Cash flows from operating activities

Operating profit
Interest income
Dividend income and distribution
Depreciation and amortisation
Loss on disposal of intangible assets
Impairment on investments at amortised cost
Fair value gain from assets and liabilities
Gain on disposal of subsidiaries
Gain on partial disposal of a joint venture
Net gain on disposal of non-current assets

Operating profit before working capital changes
Increase in inventories
Increase in debtors and prepayments
Increase in amounts due from fellow subsidiaries
Increase in amounts due from related companies
Increase in creditors and accruals
Increase in amounts due to fellow subsidiaries
Increase in amounts due to related companies
(Decrease)/increase in other non-current liabilities
Change in net pension assets/liabilities
Settlement of derivative financial instruments

Cash generated from operations
Interest and financing charges paid
Hong Kong profits tax paid
Overseas taxes paid

Net cash from operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities

Sale and redemption on maturity of non-current assets
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of other non-current assets
(Increase)/decrease in portfolio investments  

at fair value through profit or loss

Disposal of subsidiaries
Proceeds on partial disposal of a joint venture
Investment in a joint venture
Net change in amounts due from joint ventures
Decrease/(increase) in restricted bank balances and  
bank deposits maturing more than three months

Interest received
Dividends and distribution received from investments
Dividends received from joint ventures and associated companies

45(b)

2018

299,386
(56,452)
(24,805)
403,701
657
1,985
(16,004)
(3,663)
(896)
(14,171)

589,738
(22,913)
(86,094)
(20,350)
(690)
121,038
6,048
10,371
(1,115)
(1,667)
3,394

597,760
(129,261)
(702)
(15,135)

452,662

89,182
(490,041)
(47,975)

(88,350)
(1,854)
1,230
(34)
444

1,655
56,240
10,133
18,212

2017

232,170
(46,611)
(22,975)
439,824
6,690
–
(50,196)
–
–
(8,434)

550,468
(17,685)
(115,641)
–
–
41,161
–
–
11,628
(1,556)
2,319

470,694
(90,095)
(21)
(10,220)

370,358

155,757
(470,428)
(98,101)

46,200
–
–
(154)
(8,762)

(61,956)
46,496
9,710
20,204

Net cash used in investing activities

(451,158)

(361,034)

Cash flows from financing activities

Drawdown of loans
Repayment of loans
Drawdown of finance lease obligations
Capital element of finance lease rental payments
Dividend paid to equity holders of the Company

Net cash (used in)/from financing activities

45(a)
45(a)
45(a)
45(a)

Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
Cash and cash equivalents of disposal group classified as held for sale
Currency translation adjustments

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

45(d)

213,692
(506,679)
262,228
(267,148)
–

(297,907)

(296,403)
1,940,975
(53,733)
(6,374)

1,584,465

447,361
(552,076)
659,521
(236,838)
(13,388)

304,580

313,904
1,625,219
–
1,852

1,940,975

109
109

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

For the year ended 31st December 2018

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

For the year ended 31st December 2018

US$’000

At 31st December 2016

Total comprehensive income for the year

Transactions with owners

2017 interim dividend

At 31st December 2017

Adjustment on adoption of HKFRS 9

Restated balance at 1st January 2018

Total comprehensive income for the year

Equity holders

Share capital

62,579

–

–

62,579

–

62,579

–

Reserves

4,456,707

176,615

Total

4,519,286

176,615

(13,388)

(13,388)

4,619,934

(13,172)

4,606,762

65,789

4,682,513

(13,172)

4,669,341

65,789

At 31st December 2018

62,579

4,672,551

4,735,130

110

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

1.  GENERAL INFORMATION

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (the  “Company”)  is  a  limited  liability  company  incorporated  in  Bermuda.  The 
address  of  its  registered  office  is  Clarendon  House,  2  Church  Street,  Hamilton  HM11,  Bermuda  and  the  principal  office  is 
33rd floor, Harbour Centre, No. 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong.

The  principal  activity  of  the  Company  is  investment  holding  and  the  activities  of  its  principal  subsidiaries,  associated 
companies and joint ventures are set out on pages 175 to 183 of the consolidated financial statements.

The Company has its shares listed on the Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.

Prior  to  13th  July  2018,  the  ultimate  parent  company  of  the  Group  was  Tung  Holdings  (Trustee)  Inc.,  incorporated  in  the 
Republic of Liberia. On 13th July 2018, the ultimate parent company of the Group was changed to China COSCO SHIPPING 
Corporation  Limited  (“COSCO  SHIPPING”),  a  state-owned  enterprise  established  in  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  (the 
“PRC”).

On  6th  July  2018,  the  Group  entered  into  the  National  Security  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Group  and  COSCO 
SHIPPING  Holdings  Co.,  Ltd.  committed  to  divest  the  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  (“U.S.  Terminal  Business”).  The 
proposed sale of the U.S. Terminal Business is accounted for as discontinued operation under HKFRS 5 “Non-current assets 
held  for  sale  and  discontinued  operations”.  Analysis  of  the  results,  cash  flows,  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  U.S.  Terminal 
Business is presented in note 16.

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The  significant  accounting  policies  applied  in  the  preparation  of  these  consolidated  financial  statements  are  set  out  below. 
These policies have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless otherwise stated.

2.1  Basis of preparation

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards 
(“HKFRS”). They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investment 
property,  investments  at  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income,  portfolio  investments  at  fair  value  through 
profit or loss and derivative financial instruments which are carried at fair value.

The  preparation  of  consolidated  financial  statements  in  conformity  with  HKFRS  requires  the  use  of  certain  critical 
accounting  estimates.  It  also  requires  management  to  exercise  its  judgement  in  the  process  of  applying  the  Group’s 
accounting  policies.  The  areas  involving  a  higher  degree  of  judgement  or  complexity,  or  areas  where  assumptions  and 
estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 4.

The adoption of revised HKFRSs

In  2018,  the  Group  adopted  the  following  new  standards,  amendments,  improvement  and  interpretation  to  existing 
HKFRSs below, which are relevant to its operations.

111
111

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

The adoption of revised HKFRSs (Continued)

(a)  Impact on the financial statements

New standards, amendments, improvement and interpretation

HKFRSs
HKFRS 9
HKFRS 15
HKFRS 15 (Amendment)
HKAS 40 (Amendment)
HK (IFRIC) – Int 22

Annual Improvements 2014 – 2016 Reporting Cycle 
Financial Instruments
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Clarification to HKFRS 15
Transfer of Investment Property
Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration

The  adoption  of  the  above  new  standards,  amendments,  improvement  and  interpretation  to  existing  HKFRSs  do 
not have a material impact on the Group, except for HKFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” as set out below.

(b)  HKFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” – Impact of adoption

The  adoption  of  HKFRS  9  “Financial  Instruments”  from  1st  January  2018  resulted  in  changes  in  accounting 
policies  and  adjustments  to  the  amounts  recognised  in  the  consolidated  financial  statements.  In  accordance 
with  the  transitional  provision  in  HKFRS  9,  comparative  figures  have  not  been  restated.  The  reclassification  and 
adjustments  arising  from  the  new  impairment  rules  are  therefore  not  reflected  in  the  restated  balance  sheet  as  at 
31st December 2017, but are recognised in the opening balance sheet on 1st January 2018.

The adjustments on the consolidated balance sheet as at 1st January 2018 are summarised below:

US$’000
Balance sheet (extract)

Non-current assets
Investments at fair value through  
other comprehensive income

Investments at amortised cost
Available-for-sale financial assets
Held-to-maturity investments

Current assets
Debtors and prepayments
Investments at amortised cost
Held-to-maturity investments

Note

(i)(a)
(i)(b),(ii)
(i)(a)
(i)(b)

(ii)
(i)(b),(ii)
(i)(b)

Total assets

Retained profit

Total equity

31st December 
2017 
As originally 
presented

Effect of 
adoption of
 HKFRS 9

1st January 
2018
 Restated

–
–
45,383
217,889

589,936
–
17,040

45,383
217,617
(45,383)
(217,889)

(12,897)
17,037
(17,040)

45,383
217,617
–
–

577,039
17,037
–

10,069,296

(13,172)

10,056,124

4,267,850

4,682,513

(13,172)

(13,172)

4,254,678

4,669,341

112

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

The adoption of revised HKFRSs (Continued)

(b)  HKFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” – Impact of adoption (Continued)

The total impact on the Group’s retained profit as at 1st January 2018 is as follows:

US$’000

Closing retained profit as at 31st December 2017
Increase in provision for trade receivables and investments at amortised cost

Opening retained profit as at 1st January 2018

Note

(ii)

4,267,850
(13,172)

4,254,678

(i)  Classification and measurement

On 1st January 2018 (the date of initial application of HKFRS 9), the Group’s management has assessed which 

business  models  apply  to  the  financial  assets  held  by  the  Group  and  has  classified  its  financial  instruments 

into the appropriate HKFRS 9 categories. The main effects resulting from the reclassification are:

(a)  Equity investments previously classified as available-for-sale financial assets

The  equity  investments  previously  classified  as  available-for-sale  financial  assets  were  reclassified  as 

investments at fair value through other comprehensive income as these investments are held as long-term 

strategic investments.

(b)  Reclassification from held-to-maturity investments to investments at amortised cost

Bonds  that  would  have  previously  been  classified  as  held-to-maturity  investments  are  now  classified  as 

investments  at  amortised  cost.  The  Group  intends  to  hold  the  assets  to  maturity  to  collect  contractual 

cash  flows  and  these  cash  flows  consist  solely  of  payments  of  principal  and  interest  on  the  principal 

amount outstanding.

(ii)  Impairment of financial assets

The  Group  has  adopted  the  new  impairment  models  in  which  the  recognition  of  impairment  provision  is 

based on expected credit losses rather than only incurred credit losses. The below financial assets are assessed 
to have impact under the HKFRS 9’s new expected credit loss model:

‧  Trade receivables

‧ 

Investments at amortised cost

113113

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

The adoption of revised HKFRSs (Continued)

(b)  HKFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” – Impact of adoption (Continued)

Trade receivables

The  Group  applies  the  HKFRS  9  simplified  approach  to  measuring  expected  credit  losses  which  uses  a  lifetime 
expected loss allowance for all trade receivables.

The loss allowance for trade receivables as at 31st December 2017 reconcile to the opening loss allowance on 1st 
January 2018 as follows:

US$’000

At 31st December 2017 – calculated under HKAS 39
Amounts restated through opening retained profit

Trade receivables 
16,061
12,897

Opening loss allowance as at 1st January 2018 – calculated under HKFRS 9

28,958

Investments at amortised cost

All of the Group’s debt investments at amortised cost are considered to have low credit risk, and the loss allowance 
recognised during the year was therefore limited to 12 months expected losses. The adoption of the expected credit 
loss model resulted in the recognition of a loss allowance at US$275,000 on 1st January 2018.

New standards, amendments, improvement and interpretation to existing standards that are relevant but 
not yet effective to the Group

New standards, amendments, improvement and interpretation to existing standards

HKAS 19 (Amendment)
HKAS 28 (Amendment)
HKFRSs
HKFRS 9 (Amendment)

HKFRS 16
HK (IFRIC) – Int 23
HKAS 1 and HKAS 8  
(Amendments) 

HKFRS 3 (Amendment)
HKFRS 17
HKFRS 10 and HKAS 28 

(Amendments)

Employee Benefits
Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
Annual Improvements 2015 - 2017 Reporting Cycle
Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation and 

Modification of Financial Liabilities

Leases
Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments
Definition of Material

Effective for 
accounting periods 
beginning on or after

1st January 2019
1st January 2019
1st January 2019
1st January 2019

1st January 2019
1st January 2019
1st January 2020

Definition of a Business
Insurance Contracts
Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its 

1st January 2020
1st January 2021
To be announced

Associate or Joint Venture

The  adoption  of  HKAS  19  (Amendment),  HKAS  28  (Amendment),  HKAS  1  and  HKAS  8  (Amendments),  HKFRSs 
Annual  Improvements  2015  –  2017  Reporting  Cycle,  HK  (IFRIC)  –  Int  23,  HKFRS  3  (Amendment),  HKFRS  9 
(Amendment), HKFRS 10 and HKAS 28 (Amendments) and HKFRS 17 are not expected to have a significant effect on 
the consolidated financial statements of the Group. The following assessment on HKFRS 16 has been carried out.

114

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

HKFRS 16 “Leases”

HKFRS 16 will affect primarily the accounting for the Group’s operating leases. Under HKFRS 16, an asset (the right to 
use the leased item) and a financial liability to pay rentals are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet. Management 
considers the operating lease commitments as disclosed in note 44(b) and note 16(d) will result in the recognition of an 
asset and a liability for future payments and will affect the Group’s results and classification of cash flows. The impact of 
adoption will be disclosed in the Interim Report 2019.

2.2  Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 
31st December.

The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s attributable share of post-acquisition results and reserves 
of its joint ventures and associated companies.

(a)  Subsidiaries

A subsidiary is an entity (including a structured entity) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an 
entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has 
the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on 
which control is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.

The  Group  uses  the  acquisition  method  of  accounting  to  account  for  business  combinations.  The  consideration 
transferred  for  the  acquisition  of  a  subsidiary  is  the  fair  values  of  the  assets  transferred,  the  liabilities  incurred 
and  the  equity  interests  issued  by  the  Group.  The  consideration  transferred  includes  the  fair  value  of  any  asset 
or  liability  resulting  from  a  contingent  consideration  arrangement.  Acquisition-related  costs  are  expensed  as 
incurred.  Identifiable  assets  acquired  and  liabilities  and  contingent  liabilities  assumed  in  a  business  combination 
are  measured  initially  at  their  fair  values  at  the  acquisition  date.  The  Group  recognises  any  non-controlling 
interest  in  the  acquiree  on  an  acquisition-by-acquisition  basis.  Non-controlling  interests  in  the  acquiree  that  are 
present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets in the event 
of  liquidation  are  measured  at  either  fair  value  or  the  present  ownership  interests’  proportionate  share  in  the 
recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. All other components of non-controlling interests are 
measured at their acquisition date fair value, unless another measurement basis is required by HKFRS.

The  excess  of  the  consideration  transferred,  the  amount  of  any  non-controlling  interest  in  the  acquiree  and  the 
acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net 
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised 
and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the 
case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Inter-company  transactions,  balances  and  unrealised  gains  on  transactions  between  group  companies  are 
eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the 
asset transferred.

115115

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.2  Consolidation (Continued)

(b)  Transactions with non-controlling interests

Transactions  with  non-controlling  interests  that  do  not  result  in  a  loss  of  control  are  accounted  for  as  equity 
transactions – that is, as transactions with the owners of the subsidiary in their capacity as owners. The difference 
between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary 
is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.

When  the  Group  ceases  to  have  control,  any  retained  interest  in  the  entity  is  remeasured  to  its  fair  value,  with 
the  change  in  carrying  amount  recognised  in  profit  or  loss.  The  fair  value  is  the  initial  carrying  amount  for  the 
purposes  of  subsequent  accounting  for  the  retained  interest  as  an  associated  company,  joint  venture  or  financial 
asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are 
accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts 
previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.

(c)  Joint arrangements

Joint  arrangements  are  classified  as  either  joint  operations  or  joint  ventures  depending  on  the  contractual  rights 
and obligations of each investor. The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them 
to be joint ventures. Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.

Under  the  equity  method  of  accounting,  interests  in  joint  ventures  are  initially  recognised  at  cost  and  adjusted 
thereafter  to  recognise  the  Group’s  share  of  the  post-acquisition  profits  or  losses  and  movements  in  other 
comprehensive  income.  When  the  Group’s  share  of  losses  in  a  joint  venture  equals  or  exceeds  its  interests  in  the 
joint ventures (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment 
in  the  joint  ventures),  the  Group  does  not  recognise  further  losses,  unless  it  has  incurred  obligations  or  made 
payments on behalf of the joint ventures.

Unrealised  gains  on  transactions  between  the  Group  and  its  joint  ventures  are  eliminated  to  the  extent  of  the 
Group’s interest in the joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence 
of an impairment of the asset transferred.

(d)  Associated companies

Associated  companies  are  all  entities  over  which  the  Group  has  significant  influence  but  not  control,  generally 
accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associated companies 
are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investments 
in associated companies includes goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) identified on acquisition.

If  the  ownership  interest  in  an  associate  is  reduced  but  significant  influence  is  retained,  only  a  proportionate 
share of the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where 
appropriate.

The Group’s share of its associated companies’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the consolidated 
profit  and  loss  account,  and  its  share  of  post-acquisition  movements  in  reserves  is  recognised  in  reserves.  The 
cumulative  post-acquisition  movements  are  adjusted  against  the  carrying  amount  of  the  investment.  When  the 
Group’s share of losses in an associated company equals or exceeds its interest in the associated company, including 
any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or 
made payments on behalf of the associated company.

Profits  and  losses  resulting  from  upstream  and  downstream  transactions  between  the  Group  and  its  associated 
companies  are  recognised  in  the  Group’s  financial  statements  only  to  the  extent  of  unrelated  investor’s  interests 
in  the  associated  companies.  Unrealised  losses  are  also  eliminated  unless  the  transaction  provides  evidence  of 
an  impairment  of  the  asset  transferred.  Accounting  policies  of  associated  companies  have  been  changed  where 
necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.

116

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.3  Property, plant and equipment

All property,  plant and  equipment are  stated  at  historical cost  less  depreciation and impairment losses. Historical cost 
includes  expenditure  that  is  directly  attributable  to  the  acquisition  of  the  items.  Subsequent  costs  are  included  in  the 
asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic 
benefits  associated  with  the  item  will  flow  to  the  Group  and  the  cost  of  the  item  can  be  measured  reliably.  All  other 
repairs  and  maintenance  are  charged  to  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  during  the  financial  period  in  which 
they are incurred.

No depreciation is provided for assets under construction and freehold land.

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their 
residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows:

Container vessels
Containers and chassis
Terminal equipment and improvement
Freehold buildings
Leasehold buildings
Leasehold improvement
Furniture, vehicles, computer and other equipment

25 years 
10 to 15 years
3 to 15 years
Not exceeding 75 years 
Over period of the lease 
Over period of the lease or 5 years whichever is lower
3 to 10 years

The  residual  values  of  the  assets  and  their  useful  lives  are  reviewed  and  adjusted  if  appropriate,  at  each  balance  sheet 
date.

During the year, management has reviewed the estimated useful lives of the containers. With due consideration of the 
standard  of  performance  and  the  Group’s  maintenance  programme  over  these  containers,  the  Directors  consider  that 
it is more fair and appropriate to extend the estimated useful lives of containers from 12 years to 15 years. The revision 
of  the  estimated  useful  lives  of  the  containers  has  been  effective  from  1st  July  2018  and  has  the  effect  of  reducing  the 
depreciation charge for the year ended 31st December 2018 by US$26.3 million.

The carrying amount of an asset is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount of the 
asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.

Gains  and  losses  on  disposals  are  determined  as  the  difference  between  the  net  disposal  proceeds  and  the  carrying 
amounts of the assets and are dealt with in the consolidated profit and loss account.

2.4  Investment property

Property  that  is  held  for  long-term  rental  yields  or  for  capital  appreciation  or  both,  and  that  is  not  occupied  by  the 
companies  in  the  Group,  is  classified  as  investment  property.  Investment  property  comprises  freehold  land,  land  held 
under  operating  leases  and  buildings  held  under  finance  leases.  Land  held  under  operating  leases  are  classified  and 
accounted for as investment property when the rest of the definition of investment property is met. The operating lease 
is accounted for as if it were a finance lease.

Investment  property  is  initially  measured  at  cost,  including  related  transaction  costs  and  where  applicable  borrowing 
costs. After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair value. Fair value is based on valuation carried out 
semi-annually by an independent external valuer. Changes in fair values are recognised in the consolidated profit and 
loss account.

2.5  Vessel repairs and surveys

Upon  acquisition  of  a  vessel,  the  components  of  the  vessel  which  are  required  to  be  replaced  at  the  next  dry-docking 
are identified and their costs are depreciated over five years to the next estimated dry-docking date. Costs incurred on 
subsequent  dry-docking  of  vessels  are  capitalised  and  depreciated  over  the  period  to  the  next  estimated  dry-docking 
date. When significant dry-docking costs incurred prior to the expiry of the depreciation period, the remaining costs of 
the previous dry-docking are written off immediately.

117117

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.6  Intangible assets

(a)  Goodwill

Goodwill  represents  the  excess  of  the  cost  of  an  acquisition  over  the  fair  value  of  the  Group’s  share  of  the 
net  identifiable  assets  of  the  acquired  subsidiary,  associated  company  or  joint  ventures  at  the  effective  date  of 
acquisition.

Goodwill on acquisition of a foreign operation is treated as an asset of the foreign operation.

Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiaries is retained at the carrying amount as an intangible asset. Goodwill 
arising  on  acquisition  of  associated  companies  and  joint  ventures  is  included  within  investments  in  associated 
companies  and  joint  ventures  respectively  and  is  tested  for  impairment  as  part  of  overall  balance.  Separately 
recognised  goodwill  is  subject  to  impairment  review  annually  and  when  there  are  indications  that  the  carrying 
value  may  not  be  recoverable.  If  the  cost  of  acquisition  is  less  than  the  fair  value  of  the  Group’s  share  of  the  net 
identifiable assets of the acquired company, the difference is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

(b)  Computer software

Costs  associated  with  maintaining  computer  software  programmes  are  recognised  as  an  expense  as  incurred. 
Costs  that  are  directly  associated  with  the  production  of  identifiable  and  unique  software  products  controlled  by 
the  Group,  and  that  will  probably  generate  economic  benefits  exceeding  costs  beyond  one  year,  are  recognised 
as  intangible  assets.  Direct  costs  include  the  software  development  employee  costs  and  an  appropriate  portion  of 
relevant overheads.

Computer  software  costs  recognised  as  assets  are  stated  at  cost  less  accumulated  amortisation.  Amortisation  is 
calculated on the straight-line basis over their estimated useful life, with a maximum of five years.

2.7  Impairment of investments in subsidiaries and non-financial assets

Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation, and are at least tested annually for impairment. 
Assets  that  are  subject  to  amortisation  are  reviewed  for  impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which 
the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value 
of an asset less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest 
levels  for  which  there  are  separately  identifiable  cash  flows  (cash  generating  units).  Non-financial  assets  other  than 
goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.

Impairment  testing  of  the  investments  in  subsidiaries  is  required  upon  receiving  dividends  from  these  investments  if 
the dividend exceeds the total comprehensive income of the subsidiary in the period the dividend is declared or if the 
carrying  amount  of  the  investment  in  the  separate  account  exceeds  the  carrying  amount  in  the  consolidated  financial 
statements of the investee’s net assets including goodwill.

2.8  Non-current assets (or disposal groups) held for sale and discontinued operations

Non-current  assets  (or  disposal  groups)  are  classified  as  held  for  sale  if  their  carrying  amount  will  be  recovered 
principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use and a sale is considered highly probable. They 
are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, except for assets such as deferred tax 
assets, assets arising from employee benefits, financial assets and investment property that are carried at fair value and 
contractual rights under insurance contracts, which are specifically exempt from this requirement.

Non-current assets (including those that are part of a disposal group) are not depreciated or amortised while they are 
classified as held for sale. Interest and other expenses attributable to the liabilities of a disposal group classified as held 
for sale continue to be recognised.

118

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.8  Non-current assets (or disposal groups) held for sale and discontinued operations (Continued)

Non-current assets classified as held for sale and the assets of a disposal group classified as held for sale are presented 
separately from the other assets in the consolidated balance sheet. The liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for 
sale are presented separately from other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.

A discontinued operation is a component of the entity that has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale and that 
represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, is part of a single co-ordinated plan to 
dispose of such a line of business or area of operations, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. The 
results of discontinued operations are presented separately in the consolidated profit and loss account.

2.9  Investments and other financial assets

(a)  Classification

From 1st January 2018, the Group classifies its financial assets in the following measurement categories:

(cid:127) 

those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either through other comprehensive income or through profit 
or loss); and

‧ 

those to be measured at amortised cost.

The  classification  depends  on  the  entity’s  business  model  for  managing  the  financial  assets  and  the  contractual 
terms of the cash flows.

For assets measured at fair value, gains and losses will either be recorded in profit or loss or other comprehensive 
income. For investments in equity instruments that are not held for trading, this will depend on whether the Group 
has made an irrevocable election at the time of initial recognition to account for the equity investment at fair value 
through other comprehensive income.

The Group reclassifies debt investments when and only when its business model for managing those assets changes.

(b)  Recognition and derecognition

Regular  way  purchases  and  sales  of  financial  assets  are  recognised  on  trade-date,  the  date  on  which  the  Group 
commits to purchase or sell the asset. Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from 
the financial assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks 
and rewards of ownership.

(c)  Measurement

At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not 
at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial 
asset. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are expensed in profit or loss.

Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining whether their cash 
flows are solely payment of principal and interest.

119119

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.9  Investments and other financial assets (Continued)

(c)  Measurement (Continued)

Debt instruments

Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group’s business model for managing the asset and 
the cash flow characteristics of the asset. There are three measurement categories into which the Group classifies its 
debt instruments:

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent 
solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost. Interest income from these financial 
assets is included in “other operating income” using the effective interest rate method. Any gain or loss arising 
on derecognition is recognised directly in profit or loss and presented in “other gains/(losses)” together with 
foreign exchange gains and losses. Impairment losses are presented in “other gains/(losses)”.

Fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income:  Assets  that  are  held  for  collection  of  contractual  cash 
flows  and  for  selling  the  financial  assets,  where  the  assets’  cash  flows  represent  solely  payments  of  principal 
and  interest,  are  measured  at  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income.  Movements  in  the  carrying 
amount  are  taken  through  other  comprehensive  income,  except  for  the  recognition  of  impairment  gains  or 
losses,  interest  income  and  foreign  exchange  gains  and  losses  which  are  recognised  in  profit  or  loss.  When 
the financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive 
income  is  reclassified  from  equity  to  profit  or  loss  and  recognised  in “other  gains/(losses)”.  Interest  income 
from  these  financial  assets  is  included  in  “other  operating  income”  using  the  effective  interest  rate  method. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment expenses are presented in “other gains/(losses)”.

Fair value through profit or loss: Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or fair value through 
other  comprehensive  income  are  measured  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss.  A  gain  or  loss  on  a  debt 
investment that is subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss is recognised in profit or loss and 
presented net within “other gains/(losses)” in the period in which it arises.

Equity instruments

The Group subsequently measures all equity investments at fair value. Where the Group’s management has elected 
to present fair value gains and losses on equity investments in other comprehensive income, there is no subsequent 
reclassification  of  fair  value  gains  and  losses  to  profit  or  loss  following  the  derecognition  of  the  investment. 
Dividends from such investments continue to be recognised in profit or loss as “other operating income” when the 
Group’s right to receive payments is established.

Changes  in  the  fair  value  of  financial  assets  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss  are  recognised  in  “other  gains/
(losses)”  in  profit  or  loss  as  applicable.  Impairment  losses  (and  reversal  of  impairment  losses)  on  equity 
investments  measured  at  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income  are  not  reported  separately  from  other 
changes in fair value.

(d)  Impairment

From 1st January 2018, the Group assesses on a forward looking basis the expected credit losses associated with its 
debt  instruments  carried  at  amortised  cost  and  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income.  The  impairment 
methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.

For trade receivables, the Group applies the simplified approach permitted by HKFRS 9, which requires expected 
lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.

120

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.9  Investments and other financial assets (Continued)

(e)  Accounting policies applied until 31st December 2017

The Group has applied HKFRS 9 retrospectively, but has elected not to restate comparative information. As a result, 
the  comparative  information  provided  continues  to  be  accounted  for  in  accordance  with  the  Group’s  previous 
accounting policy.

Until 31st December 2017 the Group classified its investments in the following categories: portfolio investments at 
fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial 
assets.  The  classification  determined  on  the  purpose  for  which  the  investments  were  acquired.  Management 
determined  the  classification  of  its  investments  at  initial  recognition  and  re-evaluates  this  designation  at  every 
reporting date.

(i)  Portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss

Portfolio  investments  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss  include  financial  assets  held  for  trading  and  those 
designated  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss  at  inception.  A  financial  asset  is  classified  in  this  category  if 
acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management. Assets in 
this  category  are  classified  as  current  assets  if  they  are  either  held  for  trading  or  are  expected  to  be  realised 
within 12 months from the balance sheet date.

(ii)  Loans and receivables

Loans  and  receivables  are  non-derivative  financial  assets  with  fixed  or  determinable  payments  that  are  not 
quoted in an active market. They arise when the Group provides money or services directly to a debtor with 
no intention of trading the receivable. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 
12 months after the balance sheet date; which are classified as non-current assets.

(iii) Held-to-maturity investments

Held-to-maturity  investments  are  non-derivative  financial  assets  with  fixed  or  determinable  payments  and 
fixed maturities that the Group’s management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. If the 
Group  were  to  sell  other  than  an  insignificant  amount  of  held-to-maturity  investments,  the  whole  category 
would be reclassified as available-for-sale financial assets. Held-to-maturity investments are included in non-
current  assets,  except  for  those  with  maturities  less  than  12  months  from  the  balance  sheet  date;  which  are 
classified as current assets.

(iv) Available-for-sale financial assets

Available-for-sale  financial  assets  are  non-derivatives  that  are  either  designated  in  this  category  or  not 
classified in any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends 
to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.

Interest  on  available-for-sale  financial  assets  calculated  using  the  effective  interest  method  is  recognised  in 
the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  as  part  of  “other  operating  income”.  Dividends  on  available-for-
sale equity instruments are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account as part of “other operating 
income” when the Group’s right to receive payments is established.

121121

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.9  Investments and other financial assets (Continued)

(e)  Accounting policies applied until 31st December 2017 (Continued)

(v)  Recognition and measurement

Regular way purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date – the date on which the Group 
commits to purchase or sell the asset. Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs 
for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss. Investments are derecognised when the 
rights  to  receive  cash  flows  from  the  investments  have  expired  or  have  been  transferred  and  the  Group  has 
transferred  substantially  all  risks  and  rewards  of  ownership.  Available-for-sale  financial  assets  and  portfolio 
investments  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss  are  subsequently  carried  at  fair  value.  Loans  and  receivables 
and  held-to-maturity  investments  are  carried  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective  interest  method  less 
impairment losses, if any.

Realised  and  unrealised  gains  and  losses  arising  from  changes  in  the  fair  value  of  the  portfolio  investments 
at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss  are  included  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  in  the  period  in 
which they arise. Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities 
classified as available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in other comprehensive income. When securities 
classified as available-for-sale financial assets are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are 
included in the consolidated profit and loss account as gains and losses from available-for-sale financial assets.

The  fair  values  of  quoted  investments  are  based  on  current  bid  prices.  If  the  market  for  a  financial  asset  is 
not active (and for unlisted securities), the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques. These 
include  the  use  of  recent  arm’s  length  transactions,  reference  to  other  instruments  that  are  substantially 
the  same,  discounted  cash  flow  analysis,  and  option  pricing  models  refined  to  reflect  the  issuer’s  specific 
circumstances.

The Group may choose to reclassify a non-derivative trading financial asset out of the portfolio investments at 
fair value through profit or loss category if the financial asset is no longer held for the purpose of selling it in 
the near term. Financial assets other than loans and receivables are permitted to be reclassified out of the held 
for trading category only in rare circumstances arising from a single event that is unusual and highly unlikely 
to  recur  in  the  near  term.  In  addition,  the  Group  may  choose  to  reclassify  financial  assets  that  would  meet 
the definition of loans and receivables or held-to-maturity investments out of the portfolio investments at fair 
value through profit or loss or available-for-sale financial assets categories if the Group has the intention and 
ability to hold these financial assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity at the date of reclassification.

Reclassifications  are  made  at  fair  value  as  of  the  reclassification  date.  Fair  value  becomes  the  new  cost  or 
amortised cost as applicable, and no reversals of fair value gains or losses recorded before reclassification date 
are  subsequently  made.  Effective  interest  rates  for  financial  assets  reclassified  to  loans  and  receivables  and 
held-to-maturity categories are determined at the reclassification date. Further increases in estimates of cash 
flows adjust effective interest rates prospectively.

The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a 
group  of  financial  assets  is  impaired.  In  the  case  of  equity  securities  classified  as  available-for-sale  financial 
assets,  a  significant  or  prolonged  decline  in  the  fair  value  of  the  securities  below  its  cost  is  considered  in 
determining  whether  the  securities  are  impaired.  If  any  such  evidence  exists  for  available-for-sale  financial 
assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, 
less  any  impairment  loss  on  that  financial  asset  previously  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss 
account is removed from equity and recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account. Impairment losses 
recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  on  equity  instruments  are  not  reversed  through  the 
consolidated profit and loss account.

122

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.9  Investments and other financial assets (Continued)

(e)  Accounting policies applied until 31st December 2017 (Continued)

(v)  Recognition and measurement (Continued)

Impairment  on  held-to-maturity  investments  is  considered  at  both  an  individual  and  collective  level.  The 
individual impairment allowance is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the 
present  value  of  estimated  future  cash  flows,  discounted  at  asset’s  original  effective  interest  rate,  where  the 
effect of discounting is material.

For  loans  and  receivables  category,  the  amount  of  the  loss  is  measured  as  the  difference  between  the  asset’s 
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have 
not  been  incurred)  discounted  at  the  financial  asset’s  original  effective  interest  rate.  The  carrying  amount 
of  the  asset  is  reduced  and  the  amount  of  the  loss  is  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account. 
If  a  loan  or  held-to-maturity  investment  has  a  variable  interest  rate,  the  discount  rate  for  measuring  any 
impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined under the contract. As a practical expedient, 
the  Group  may  measure  impairment  on  the  basis  of  an  instrument’s  fair  value  using  an  observable  market 
price.

(f)  Offsetting financial instruments

Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the consolidated balance sheet when there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or 
realise  the  asset  and  settle  the  liability  simultaneously.  The  legally  enforceable  right  must  not  be  contingent  on 
future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or 
bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty.

2.10 Inventories

Inventories mainly comprise bunkers and consumable stores. Cost is calculated on weighted average basis. Inventories 
are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses.

2.11 Debtors

Debtors  are  recognised  initially  at  fair  value  and  subsequently  measured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective  interest 
method,  less  provision  for  impairment.  A  provision  for  impairment  of  debtors  is  established  when  there  is  objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables and is 
also based on expected credit losses rather than only incurred credit losses. The amount of the provision is recognised in 
the consolidated profit and loss account. More information about the impairment policies of debtors is disclosed in note 
3.1(c).

If collection of debtors is expected in one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they 
are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets.

2.12 Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks with original maturities of three months 
or less.

2.13 Share capital

Ordinary shares are classified as equity.

Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the 
proceeds.

123123

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.14 Creditors

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business 
from suppliers. Creditors are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal 
operating cycle of the business if longer. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.

Trade  creditors  are  recognised  initially  at  fair  value  and  subsequently  measured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective 
interest method.

2.15 Borrowings

Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at 
amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in 
the consolidated profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.

Borrowings  are  classified  as  current  liabilities  unless  the  Group  has  an  unconditional  right  to  defer  settlement  of  the 
liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.

Fees  paid  on  the  establishment  of  loan  facilities  are  recognised  as  transaction  costs  of  the  loan  to  the  extent  that  it 
is  probable  that  some  or  all  of  the  facility  will  be  drawn  down.  In  this  case,  the  fee  is  deferred  until  the  draw-down 
occurs. To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is 
capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.

2.16 Current and deferred taxation

The tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss 
account, except to the extent that it relates to item recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In 
this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.

The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet  date  in  the  countries  where  the  Company’s  subsidiaries,  joint  ventures  and  associated  companies  operate  and 
generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in 
which  applicable  tax  regulation  is  subject  to  interpretation.  It  establishes  provisions  where  appropriate  on  the  basis  of 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.

Deferred taxation is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases 
of  assets  and  liabilities  and  their  carrying  amounts  in  the  consolidated  financial  statements.  However,  if  the  deferred 
taxation arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at 
the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred taxation 
is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected 
to apply when the related deferred taxation asset is realised or the deferred taxation liability is settled.

Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be utilised.

Deferred taxation is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associated companies and 
joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is 
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities related to income taxes levied by the 
same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the 
balances on a net basis.

124

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.17 Employee benefits

(a)  Pension obligations

The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension and retirement benefit schemes 
in  the  main  countries  in  which  the  Group  operates.  These  schemes  are  generally  funded  by  payments  from 
employees and by relevant group companies, taking into account of the recommendations of independent qualified 
actuaries where required.

A  defined  benefit  plan  is  a  pension  plan  that  is  not  a  defined  contribution  plan.  Typically  defined  benefit  plans 
define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more 
factors such as age, years of service and compensation.

The liability recognised in the consolidated balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present 
value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit 
obligation  is  calculated  annually  by  independent  actuaries  using  the  projected  expected  benefit  payments.  The 
present  value  of  the  defined  benefit  obligation  is  determined  by  discounting  the  estimated  future  cash  outflows 
using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will 
be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. In countries 
where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.

The  current  service  cost  of  the  defined  benefit  plan,  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  in 
employee benefit expense, except where included in the cost of an asset, reflects the increase in the defined benefit 
obligation results from employee service in the current year, benefit changes, curtailments and settlements.

Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the consolidated profit and loss account.

The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation 
and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in the consolidated profit and 
loss account.

Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or 
credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.

Contributions under the defined contribution schemes are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are 
due and are reduced by contributions forfeited by those employees who leave the scheme prior to vesting fully in 
the contributions. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in 
the future payments is available.

(b)  Bonus plans

The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses, based on a formula that takes into consideration the 
profit  attributable  to  the  Company’s  shareholders  after  certain  adjustments.  The  Group  recognises  a  provision 
where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.

(c)  Employee leave entitlements

Employee  entitlements  to  annual  leave  are  recognised  when  they  accrue  to  employees.  A  provision  is  made  for 
the estimated liability for annual leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the balance sheet date. 
Employee entitlements to sick leave and maternity leave are not recognised until the time of leave.

125125

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.18 Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated.

Where  there  are  a  number  of  similar  obligations,  the  likelihood  that  an  outflow  will  be  required  in  settlement  is 
determined  by  considering  the  class  of  obligations  as  a  whole.  A  provision  is  recognised  even  if  the  likelihood  of  an 
outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.

2.19 Insurance contracts

The Company regards its financial guarantees provided to its subsidiaries as insurance contracts. The Company initially 
and subsequently assesses at each balance sheet date the liabilities under its insurance contracts using current estimates 
of  future  cash  flows.  Changes  in  carrying  amount  of  these  insurance  liabilities  are  recognised  in  the  profit  and  loss 
account.

2.20 Segment information

Operating  segments  are  reported  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the  internal  reporting  provided  to  the  chief  operating 
decision-maker.  The  chief  operating  decision-maker,  who  is  responsible  for  allocating  resources  and  assessing 
performance of the operating segments and making strategic decisions, has been identified as the Board of Directors.

2.21 Foreign currency translation

(a)  Functional and presentation currency

Items  included  in  the  financial  statements  of  each  of  the  Group’s  entities  are  measured  using  the  currency  of 
the  primary  economic  environment  in  which  the  entity  operates  (the  “functional  currency”).  The  consolidated 
financial  statements  are  presented  in  US  dollar,  which  is  the  Company’s  functional  currency  and  the  Group’s 
presentation currency.

(b)  Transactions and balances

Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and 
from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Changes  in  the  fair  value  of  debt  securities  denominated  in  foreign  currency  classified  as  investments  at  fair 
value  through  other  comprehensive  income/available-for-sale  financial  assets  are  analysed  between  translation 
differences resulting from changes in the amortised cost of the security and other changes in the carrying amount 
of  the  security.  Translation  differences  related  to  changes  in  amortised  cost  are  recognised  in  profit  or  loss,  and 
other changes in carrying amount are recognised in other comprehensive income.

Translation  differences  on  non-monetary  items,  such  as  equities  held  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss,  are 
reported  as  part  of  the  fair  value  gain  or  loss.  Translation  differences  on  non-monetary  items,  such  as  equities 
classified  as  investments  at  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income/available-for-sale  financial  assets,  are 
included in the investments revaluation reserve in other comprehensive income.

(c)  Group companies

The results and financial position of all the group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary 
economy)  that  have  a  functional  currency  different  from  the  presentation  currency  are  translated  into  the 
presentation currency as follows:

126

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.21 Foreign currency translation (Continued)

(c)  Group companies (Continued)

(i)  assets  and  liabilities  for  each  balance  sheet  presented  are  translated  at  the  closing  rate  at  the  date  of  that 

balance sheet;

(ii) 

income  and  expenses  for  each  profit  and  loss  account  are  translated  at  average  exchange  rates  (unless 
this  average  is  not  a  reasonable  approximation  of  the  cumulative  effect  of  the  rates  prevailing  on  the 
transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rates prevailing on the dates of the 
transactions); and

(iii)  all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.

On  consolidation,  exchange  differences  arising  from  the  translation  of  the  net  investment  in  foreign  entities, 
and  of  borrowings  and  other  currency  instruments  designated  as  hedges  of  such  investments,  are  taken  to  other 
comprehensive  income.  When  a  foreign  operation  is  sold,  such  exchange  differences  are  recognised  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account as part of the gain or loss on sale.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities 
of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.

2.22 Revenue recognition

Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of services, net of value-added 
tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. Revenue is recognised as follows:

(a)  Freight  revenues  from  the  operation  of  the  container  transport  are  recognised  over  time  which  is  determined  on 

the time proportion method of each individual vessel voyage.

(b)  Revenues from logistics business are recognised when services are rendered or over time which is determined on 

the time proportion method of the progress of the transportation.

(c)  Revenues from the operation of container terminals and provision of other services are recognised when services 

are rendered.

(d)  Rental income under operating leases is recognised over the periods of the respective leases on a straight-line basis.

2.23 Interest income

Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.

2.24 Dividend income

Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.

2.25 Contract assets and contract liabilities

Upon  entering  into  a  contract  with  a  customer,  the  Group  obtains  rights  to  receive  consideration  from  the  customer 
and assumes performance obligations to transfer goods or provide services to the customer. The combination of those 
rights  and  performance  obligations  gives  rise  to  a  net  asset  or  a  net  liability  depending  on  the  relationship  between 
the remaining rights and the performance obligations. The contract is an asset and recognised as contract assets if the 
measure of the remaining rights exceeds the measure of the remaining performance obligations. Conversely, the contract 
is a liability and recognised as contract liabilities if the measure of the remaining performance obligations exceeds the 
measure of the remaining rights. The Group recognises the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer 
within contract assets if the Group expects to recover those costs.

127127

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.26 Leases

(a)  Operating lease

Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified 
as  operating  leases.  Payments  made  under  operating  leases,  net  of  any  incentives  received  from  the  lessor,  are 
charged to the consolidated profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.

The up-front prepayments made for the leasehold land and land use rights are expensed in the consolidated profit 
and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease or where there is impairment, the impairment 
is expensed in the consolidated profit and loss account.

(b)  Finance lease

Leases of assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance 
leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased assets 
and  the  present  value  of  the  minimum  lease  payments.  Each  lease  payment  is  allocated  between  the  liability  and 
finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the balance outstanding. The corresponding rental obligations, 
net  of  finance  charges,  are  included  in  current  and  non-current  borrowings.  The  interest  element  of  the  finance 
cost  is  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  over  the  lease  period  so  as  to  produce  a  constant 
periodic rate of interest on the remaining balances of the liability for each period.

2.27 Borrowing costs

Borrowing  costs  are  expensed  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  in  the  period  in  which  they  are  incurred, 
except to the extent that they are capitalised as being directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production 
of a qualifying asset which necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale.

The  capitalisation  of  borrowing  costs  as  part  of  the  cost  of  a  qualifying  asset  commences  when  expenditure  for  the 
asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for its 
intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the 
activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.

2.28 Derivative financial instruments

Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and 
are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. Changes in fair value are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss 
account.

2.29 Dividend distribution

Dividend distribution to the Company’s equity holders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in 
the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s Directors/equity holders.

2.30 Government grants

Grants from the government are recognised at their fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be 
received and the Group will comply with all attached conditions.

Government  grants  relating  to  the  purchase  of  property,  plant  and  equipment  are  recognised  as  a  deduction  from  the 
carrying amount of the related assets in the consolidated balance sheet and are credited to profit or loss on a straight-
line basis over the expected lives of the related assets.

128

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

3.1  Financial risk factors

The  Group’s  activities  expose  it  to  a  variety  of  financial  risks:  foreign  exchange  risk,  price  risk,  credit  risk,  liquidity 
risk  and  cash  flow  and  fair  value  interest  rate  risk.  The  Group’s  overall  risk  management  policy  focuses  on  the 
unpredictability  of  financial  markets  and  seeks  to  minimise  potential  adverse  effects  on  the  Group’s  financial 
performance.

The  Group  has  regularly  monitored  current  and  expected  liquidity  requirements  against  the  cash  on  hand,  expected 
net  operating  cash  flow,  committed  facilities  and  its  compliance  with  loan  covenants,  to  ensure  the  Group’s  liquidity 
requirements can be met in the short and longer term.

The Group has paid ongoing attention on credit quality of counterparties, in particular major customers and financial 
institutions with relationship in terms of debt securities, derivatives and cash transactions. Credit qualities of respective 
counterparties are disclosed in respective notes to the consolidated financial statements.

(a)  Foreign exchange risk

The  Group  operates  internationally  and  is  exposed  to  foreign  exchange  risk  arising  from  various  currency 
exposures, primarily with respect to fluctuation in the exchange rates of foreign currencies to the US dollar. Foreign 
currency exposures are covered by forward contracts and options whenever appropriate.

Income and expenses from container transport and logistics activities are mainly denominated in US dollar and in 
various currencies, mainly including Euro, Canadian dollar, Japanese yen and Renminbi.

To  limit  currency  exposure,  the  US  dollar  based  activities  are  financed  primarily  by  loans  in  US  dollar.  With  all 
other  variables  held  constant,  an  average  change  in  the  US  dollar  exchange  rate  of  1%,  compared  with  all  other 
non-US  dollar  related  currencies,  has  a  positive/negative  effect  on  the  results  for  2018  of  approximately  US$3.4 
million (2017: US$3.5 million).

(b)  Price risk

The  container  transport  and  logistics  activities  are  sensitive  to  economic  fluctuations.  The  Group  is  exposed  to 
freight  rate  risk.  The  Group’s  revenue  will  increase/decrease  by  US$58.3  million  (2017:  US$53.1  million)  for  1% 
increase/reduction of the average container freight rates with all other variables held constant.

The  Group  is  exposed  to  bunker  price  risk  for  its  container  transport  and  logistics  activities.  Bunker  cost  is  one 
of  the  major  cost  components  of  container  transport  and  logistics  activities.  To  manage  its  price  risk  arising 
from  bunker,  the  Group  enters  into  bunker  price  derivative  contracts.  An  increase  in  bunker  price  can  only  be 
partially  compensated  through  freight  surcharge  bunker  price  adjustment.  With  all  other  variables  held  constant, 
the  operating  costs  will  be  increased  by  approximately  US$1.9  million  (2017:  US$2.0  million)  for  one  US  dollar 
increase in bunker price per ton.

The  Group  is  also  exposed  to  equity/debt  securities  price  risk  because  of  investments  held  by  the  Group  include 
investments  at  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income/available-for-sale  financial  assets  or  portfolio 
investments at fair value through profit or loss which are accounted at fair value. To manage its price risk arising 
from investments in equity/debt securities, the Group diversifies its portfolio. If the prices of the respective quoted 
equity/debt  securities  of  the  Group  had  been  increased/decreased  by  1%  and  all  other  variables  held  constant, 
the profit after taxation of the Group for the year ended 31st December 2018 would increase/decrease by US$3.7 
million  (2017:  US$2.9  million)  as  a  result  of  the  changes  in  fair  value  of  equity/debt  securities  under  portfolio 
investments at fair value through profit or loss.

129129

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.1  Financial risk factors (Continued)

(c)  Credit risk

The  Group  has  no  significant  concentrations  of  credit  risk.  It  has  policies  in  place  to  ensure  that  services  are 
provided to customers with an appropriate credit history.

The  extent  of  the  Group’s  credit  exposure  is  represented  by  the  aggregate  balance  of  cash  and  bank  balances, 
portfolio  investments  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss,  investments  at  amortised  cost/held-to-maturity 
investments, derivative financial instruments, restricted bank balances and trade receivables. The credit quality of 
these exposures is disclosed in relevant notes to the consolidated financial statements.

(d)  Liquidity risk

Prudent  liquidity  risk  management  implies  maintaining  sufficient  cash  and  cash  equivalents,  the  availability  of 
funding  through  an  adequate  amount  of  committed  credit  facilities  and  the  ability  to  close  out  market  positions. 
The  Group  aims  to  maintain  flexibility  in  funding  by  keeping  sufficient  cash  and  cash  equivalents  and  readily 
realisable liquid assets.

Surplus  cash  held  by  the  operating  entities  over  and  above  balance  required  for  working  capital  management  is 
transferred to the Group Treasury. Group Treasury invests surplus cash in interest bearing current accounts, time 
deposits,  money  market  deposits  and  marketable  securities,  choosing  instruments  with  appropriate  maturities 
or  sufficient  liquidity  to  provide  sufficient  head-room.  At  the  reporting  date,  the  Group  held  liquid  assets  of 
US$1,962.7  million  (2017:  US$2,235.7  million)  that  are  expected  to  readily  generate  cash  inflows  for  managing 
liquidity risk.

The  table  below  analyses  the  Group’s  non-derivative  financial  liabilities  and  net-settled  derivative  financial 
liabilities  into  relevant  maturity  groupings  based  on  the  remaining  period  at  the  balance  sheet  date  to  the 
contractual  maturity  date.  The  amounts  disclosed  in  the  table  are  the  contractual  undiscounted  cash  flows. 
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.

US$’000

At 31st December 2018
Borrowings
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to joint ventures
Amounts due to fellow subsidiaries
Amounts due to related companies
Derivative financial instruments

At 31st December 2017
Borrowings
Other non-current liabilities
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to joint ventures

Less than
 1 year

Between 1 
and 2 years

Between 2 
and 5 years

Over 
5 years

641,274
838,185
2,441
5,843
10,371
5,565

740,200
–
740,260
7,526

742,784
–
–
–
–
–

609,937
1,317
–
–

1,946,885
–
–
–
–
–

2,044,341
6,026
–
–

1,428,287
–
–
–
–
–

1,692,884
4,285
–
–

130

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.1  Financial risk factors (Continued)

(e)  Cash flow interest rate risk

The  Group’s  income  and  operating  cash  flows  are  substantially  independent  of  changes  in  market  interest  rates. 

The Group has a policy to place surplus funds with creditable financial institutions which offer the best return for 

the Group on a short-term basis.

The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk through the impact of rate changes on interest bearing bank 

balances and borrowings.

At 31st December 2018, if interest rates had been 0.1% higher/lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax 

profit for the year would have been US$1.8 million lower/higher (2017: US$1.8 million lower/higher), mainly as a 

result of higher/lower net interest expense on the net floating rate borrowings.

3.2  Capital risk management

The  Group’s  objectives  when  managing  capital  are  to  safeguard  the  Group’s  ability  to  continue  as  a  going  concern 

in  order  to  provide  returns  for  shareholders  and  benefits  for  other  stakeholders  and  to  maintain  an  optimal  capital 

structure to reduce the cost of capital.

In  order  to  maintain  or  adjust  the  capital  structure,  the  Group  may  adjust  the  amount  of  dividends  paid  to  equity 

holders, return capital to equity holders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.

Consistent  with  others  in  the  industry,  the  Group  monitors  capital  on  the  basis  of  the  gearing  ratio.  This  ratio  is 
calculated  as  net  debt  divided  by  total  equity.  Net  debt  is  calculated  as  total  borrowings  (including “current  and  non-
current borrowings” as shown in the consolidated balance sheet) less restricted bank balances, cash and bank balances 

and portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss.

The gearing ratios at 31st December 2018 and 2017 were as follows:

US$’000

Total borrowings (note 39)

Less:  

Restricted bank balances (note 25)

Cash and bank balances (note 36)

Portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss (note 34)

Net debt

Total equity

Gearing ratio

2018

2017

(4,197,756)

(4,554,183) 

61,122

1,584,465

378,257

63,839

1,940,975

294,720

(2,173,912)

(2,254,649)

4,735,130

4,682,513

0.46

0.48

The change in net debt position results primarily from the profit generated during the year.

131131

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.3  Fair value estimation

The  financial  instruments  that  are  measured  in  the  consolidated  balance  sheet  at  fair  value,  require  disclosure  of  fair 
value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy:

(cid:127)  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).

(cid:127) 

Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
(that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2).

(cid:127) 

Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).

The following table presents the Group’s financial assets and liability that are measured at fair value at 31st December 
2018 and 2017.

US$’000

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

2018

Assets
Portfolio investments at fair value  

through profit or loss
– Equity securities
– Debt securities
– Funds and other investments

Investments at fair value through other 

comprehensive income
– Other investments

Total assets

Liability
Derivative financial instruments

Total liability

US$’000

Assets
Portfolio investments at fair value  

through profit or loss
– Equity securities
– Debt securities
– Funds and other investments
Derivative financial instruments
Available-for-sale financial assets

– Other investments

Total assets

49,589
322,948
–

–

372,537

–

–

–
–
5,720

–

5,720

5,565

5,565

–
–
–

24,422

24,422

–

–

49,589
322,948
5,720

24,422

402,679

5,565

5,565

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

2017

35,852
252,728
–
–

–

288,580

–
–
6,140
1,825

–

7,965

–
–
–
–

45,383

45,383

35,852
252,728
6,140
1,825

45,383

341,928

There were no transfers among levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year.

132

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.3  Fair value estimation (Continued)

The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet 
date. A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, 
industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market 
transactions on an arm’s length basis. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current 
bid  price.  These  instruments  are  included  in  level  1.  Instruments  included  in  level  1  comprise  portfolio  investments 
at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss  and  listed  equity  securities  classified  as  investments  at  fair  value  through  other 
comprehensive income/available-for-sale financial assets.

The  fair  value  of  financial  instruments  that  are  not  traded  in  an  active  market  (for  example,  over-the-counter 
derivatives)  is  determined  by  using  valuation  techniques.  These  valuation  techniques  maximise  the  use  of  observable 
market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required 
to  fair  value  an  instrument  are  observable,  the  instrument  is  included  in  level  2.  Instruments  in  level  2  include  the 
derivative financial instruments.

If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.

Specific valuation techniques used to value level 2 and 3 financial instruments include:

(cid:127)  Dealer quotes.

(cid:127) 

The  fair  value  of  forward  foreign  exchange  contracts  is  determined  using  forward  exchange  rates  at  the  balance 
sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value.

(cid:127)  Marketability discount rate derived from management’s judgement is applied to estimate the fair value of unlisted 
equity  security  classified  as  investment  at  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income/available-for-sale 
financial asset.

There were no changes in valuation techniques during the year.

Instruments included in level 3 mainly comprise unlisted equity security classified as investments at fair value through 
other comprehensive income/available-for-sale financial assets.

The following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments.

US$’000

Opening balance
Currency translation adjustments
Disposals
Disposal of subsidiaries
Fair value change recognised in other comprehensive income

Closing balance

2018

45,383
(6)
(1)
(23)
(20,931)

24,422

2017

32,889
2
–
–
12,492

45,383

133133

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

4.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS

Estimates and judgements used in preparing the consolidated financial statements are continually evaluated and are based on 
historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances.

The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 
financial year are discussed below.

(a)  Income taxes

The  Group  is  subject  to  income  tax  in  numerous  jurisdictions.  Significant  judgement  is  required  in  determining 
the  worldwide  provision  for  income  taxes.  There  are  many  transactions  and  calculations  for  which  the  ultimate  tax 
determination  is  uncertain  during  the  ordinary  course  of  business.  Where  the  final  tax  outcome  of  these  matters  is 
different  from  the  amounts  that  were  initially  recorded,  such  differences  will  impact  the  income  tax  and  deferred  tax 
provisions in the period in which such determination is made.

Deferred tax liabilities have not been established for income tax and withholding tax that would be payable on certain 
profits of overseas subsidiaries to be repatriated and distributed by way of dividends as the Directors consider that the 
timing of the reversal of the related temporary differences can be controlled or such profits will not be distributed and 
such temporary differences will not be reversed in the foreseeable future (note 23).

Recognition of deferred tax assets, which principally relate to tax losses, depends on the management’s expectation of 
future taxable profit that will be available against which tax losses can be utilised. The outcome of their actual utilisation 
may be different.

(b)  Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Management  determines  the  estimated  useful  lives  and  residual  values  for  the  Group’s  property,  plant  and  equipment 
and intangible assets. Management will revise the depreciation charge where useful lives and residual values are different 
from previously estimated.

Management  determines  the  estimated  useful  lives  and  related  depreciation  expenses  for  the  vessels  and  containers. 
Management  estimates  useful  lives  of  its  vessels  and  containers  by  reference  to  expected  usage  of  the  vessels  and 
containers,  expected  repair  and  maintenance,  and  technical  or  commercial  obsolescence  arising  from  changes  or 
improvements  in  the  market.  It  could  change  significantly  as  a  result  of  the  changes  of  these  factors.  After  the  review 
carried out during the year, the estimated useful lives of containers were revised as set out in note 2.3 to the consolidated 
financial statements.

Were  the  useful  lives  of  vessels  and  containers  to  differ  by  10%  from  management  estimates  with  all  other  variables 
held  constant,  it  is  estimated  that  depreciation  expense  would  increase  or  decrease  by  approximately  US$35.8  million 
or  US$19.1  million  respectively  for  the  period  from  1st  July  2018  to  31st  December  2018  subsequent  to  the  change 
of  estimated  useful  lives  of  containers  (for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2017:  US$90.0  million  or  US$53.0  million 
respectively).

Management  determines  the  residual  values  for  its  vessels  and  containers.  This  estimate  is  based  on  the  current 
scrap  values  of  steels  in  an  active  market  at  each  measurement  date  since  management  decides  to  dispose  of  the  fully 
depreciated vessels and containers as scrap steels. Depreciation expense would increase where the residual values are less 
than previously estimated values.

Were the residual values of vessels and containers to differ by 10% from management estimates with all other variables 
held constant, it is estimated that depreciation expense would increase or decrease by approximately US$13.5 million or 
US$11.9 million respectively (2017: US$10.3 million or US$10.6 million respectively).

134

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

4.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (CONTINUED)

(c)  Provision of operating costs

Operating  costs,  which  mainly  comprise  cargo  cost,  vessel  and  voyage  costs,  equipment  and  repositioning  costs  and 

terminal  operating  cost.  Invoices  in  relation  to  these  expenses  are  received  several  months  after  the  expenses  have 

been incurred. Consequently, recognition of accrued operating costs is based on the known services entered, pattern of 

historical cost as well as the estimated vendor tariff.

If the actual expenses of a voyage differ from the estimated expenses, this will have an impact on operating cost in future 

periods. Historically, the Group has not experienced significant deviation from the actual expenses.

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION

(a)  Revenue

US$’000

Container transport and logistics

Others

2018

6,546,964

25,691

Restated

2017

5,951,518

30,158

6,572,655

5,981,676

The principal activities of the Group are container transport and logistics.

Revenue comprises gross freight, charter hire, service and other income from the operation of the container transport 

and logistics and rental income from the investment property.

(b)  Segment information

The  principal  activities  of  the  Group  are  container  transport  and  logistics.  Container  transport  and  logistics  include 

global  containerised  shipping  services  in  major  trade  lanes,  covering  Trans-Pacific,  Trans-Atlantic,  Asia/Europe,  Asia/

Australia and Intra-Asia trades, and integrated services over the management and control of effective storage and flow 

of goods. In accordance with the Group’s internal financial reporting provided to the chief operating decision-makers, 

who  are  responsible  for  allocating  resources,  assessing  performance  of  the  operating  segments  and  making  strategic 

decisions, the reportable operating segments are container transport and logistics and others. The executive directors are 

the Group’s chief operating decision makers.

135135

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

Operating segments

The segment results for the year ended 31st December 2018 are as follows:

US$’000

Revenue

Revenue from contracts with customers: 

At a point in time

Over time

Revenue from other source:

Rental income

Continuing operations

Container

transport

and logistics

6,546,964

571,654

5,975,310

6,546,964

Discontinued

Others

25,691

Sub-total

operation

Total

6,572,655

131,721

6,704,376

–

–

–

571,654

5,975,310

–

131,721

571,654

6,107,031

6,546,964

131,721

6,678,685

–

25,691

25,691

–

25,691

6,546,964

25,691

6,572,655

131,721

6,704,376

Operating profit

Finance costs (note 12)

Share of profits of joint ventures (note 20)

Share of profits of associated companies (note 21)

Profit before taxation

Taxation (note 13)

Profit for the year

Fair value gain from an investment property

Capital expenditure

Depreciation

Amortisation

195,998

(143,191)

2,953

11,371

67,131

(12,396)

54,735

–

410,346

367,447

18,079

66,937

–

–

–

66,937

(46,224)

20,713

39,500

554

7

–

262,935

(143,191)

2,953

11,371

134,068

(58,620)

75,448

39,500

410,900

367,454

18,079

36,451

(3,733)

–

–

32,718

–

32,718

–

2,001

18,168

–

299,386

(146,924)

2,953

11,371

166,786

(58,620)

108,166

39,500

412,901

385,622

18,079

136

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

Operating segments (Continued)

The segment results for the year ended 31st December 2017 (restated) are as follows:

Continuing operations

Discontinued

Others

30,158

Sub-total

operation

Total

5,981,676

126,674

6,108,350

US$’000

Revenue

Revenue from contracts with customers:

At a point in time

Over time

Revenue from other source:

Rental income

Operating profit/(loss)

Finance costs (note 12)

Share of profits of joint ventures (note 20)

Share of profits of associated companies (note 21)

Profit/(loss) before taxation

Taxation (note 13)

Container

transport

and logistics

5,951,518

514,874

5,436,644

5,951,518

–

5,951,518

92,296

(97,418)

5,177

13,957

14,012

(16,232)

–

–

–

30,158

30,158

145,859

–

–

–

145,859

3,799

Profit/(loss) for the year

(2,220)

149,658

Fair value gain from an investment property

Capital expenditure

Depreciation

Amortisation

–

609,610

398,200

11,342

43,436

6,564

–

–

514,874

5,436,644

–

126,674 

514,874

5,563,318

5,951,518

126,674

6,078,192

30,158

–

30,158

5,981,676

126,674

6,108,350

238,155

(97,418)

5,177

13,957

159,871

(12,433)

147,438

43,436

616,174

398,200

11,342

(5,985)

(3,797)

–

–

(9,782)

–

232,170

(101,215) 

5,177

13,957

150,089

(12,433)

(9,782)

137,656

-

2,516

30,282

–

43,436

618,690

428,482

11,342

137137

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

Operating segments (Continued)

The segment assets and liabilities at 31st December 2018 and 2017 are as follows:

US$’000

Segment assets

Joint ventures

Associated companies

Assets held for sale (note 16)

Total assets

Segment liabilities

Liabilities directly associated with assets

Container

transport

and logistics

7,401,147

9,418

139,676

7,550,241

472,732

2018

Others

2,030,887

–

–

2,030,887

–

Group

9,432,034

9,418

139,676

9,581,128

472,732

8,022,973

2,030,887

10,053,860

(5,058,132)

(119,550)

(5,177,682)

classified as held for sale (note 16)

(141,048)

–

(141,048)

Total liabilities

(5,199,180)

(119,550)

(5,318,730)

US$’000

Segment assets

Joint ventures

Associated companies

Total assets

Segment liabilities

Container 

transport 

and logistics

7,404,001

16,840

148,840

2017

Others

2,499,615

–

–

Group

9,903,616

16,840

148,840

7,569,681

2,499,615

10,069,296

(5,320,815)

(65,968)

(5,386,783)

The  segment  of  “Others”  primarily  includes  assets  and  liabilities  of  property  and  corporate  level  activities.  Assets 
under  the  segment  of  “Others”  consist  primarily  of  investment  property,  investments  at  fair  value  through  other 

comprehensive  income/available-for-sale  financial  assets,  investments  at  amortised  cost/held-to-maturity  investments 

and  portfolio  investments  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss  together  with  cash  and  bank  balances  that  are  managed 
at  the  corporate  level.  Liabilities  under  the  segment  of “Others”  primarily  include  creditors  and  accruals  and  deferred 

taxation liabilities related to property and corporate level activities.

138

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

Geographical information

The Group’s two reportable operating segments operate in four main geographical areas, even though they are managed 

on  a  worldwide  basis.  Freight  revenues  from  container  transport  and  logistics  are  analysed  based  on  the  outbound 

cargoes of each geographical territory.

The Group’s total assets mainly include container vessels and containers which are primarily utilised across geographical 

markets  for  shipment  of  cargoes  throughout  the  world.  Accordingly,  non-current  assets  by  geographical  areas  are  not 

presented.

US$’000

Year ended 31st December 2018

Continuing operations

Asia

Europe

North America

Australia

Unallocated*

Discontinued operation

North America

Year ended 31st December 2017 (restated)

Continuing operations

Asia

Europe

North America

Australia

Unallocated*

Discontinued operation

North America

* 

Unallocated capital expenditure comprises additions to vessels, dry-docking, containers and intangible assets.

Capital

Revenue

expenditure

4,785,888

937,060

695,916

153,791

–

6,572,655

15,164

418

23,487

118

371,713

410,900

131,721

2,001

6,704,376

412,901

4,262,323

868,912

685,509

164,932

–

5,981,676

126,674

6,108,350

11,271

529

49,587

–

554,787

616,174

2,516

618,690

139139

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2018

3,169,113

1,053,866

844,390

777,105

5,844,474

15,365

Restated

2017

3,012,894

986,428

657,853

753,053

5,410,228

15,555

5,859,839

5,425,783

2018

22,590

32,666

Restated

2017

21,182

24,470

10,183

11,041

13,043

1,225

990

1,824

82,521

10,954

606

1,187

2,496

71,936

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

6.  OPERATING COSTS

US$’000

Cargo

Vessel and voyage

Bunker cost

Equipment and repositioning

Investment property

7.  OTHER OPERATING INCOME

US$’000

Dividend income from investments at fair value

through other comprehensive income/

available-for-sale financial assets

Interest income from banks

Interest income from investments at amortised cost/

held-to-maturity investments

Income from portfolio investments at fair value

through profit or loss

– Interest income

– Distribution

– Dividend income

Others

140

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

8.  OTHER (LOSSES)/GAINS, NET

US$’000

Fair value (loss)/gain on portfolio investments at fair value

through profit or loss (realised and unrealised)

(Loss)/gain on bunker price derivative contracts

Fair value gain on foreign exchange forward contracts

Profit on disposal of subsidiaries

Profit on partial disposal of a joint venture

Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment

2018

(19,500)

(4,718)

722

3,663

896

15,289

Restated

2017

4,713

164

1,883

–

–

1,509

Loss on disposal of investments at fair value through other comprehensive 

income/available-for-sale financial assets

(Loss)/gain on disposal of investments at amortised cost/

(1)

(192)

held-to-maturity investments

Impairment on investments at amortised cost

Loss on disposal of intangible assets

Exchange (loss)/gain

9.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSE

US$’000

Wages and salaries

Pension and retirement benefits

– Defined contribution plans (note 24)

– Defined benefit plans (note 24)

Representing:

– Continuing operations

– Discontinued operation

(706)

(1,985)

(657)

(14,172)

(21,169)

2018

590,497

30,951

1,258

622,706

497,774

124,932

622,706

6,296

–

(6,690)

18,537

26,220

Restated

2017

545,456

28,914

1,555

575,925

432,618

143,307

575,925

Employee benefit expenses of US$117.8 million (2017: US$93.3 million) are included in “operating costs” in the consolidated 

profit and loss account.

141141

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

10.  DIRECTORS’ AND MANAGEMENT’S EMOLUMENTS

(a)  Directors’ emoluments

The remuneration of each Director is set out below:

Name of Director
US$’000

For the year ended 

31st December 2018

Mr. Xu Lirong*2
Mr. Huang Xiaowen*2
Mr. Wang Haimin*2
Mr. Zhang Wei*2
Mr. Yan Jun*2
Ms. Wang Dan*2
Mr. Ip Sing Chi*2
Ms. Cui Hongqin*2
Dr. Timpson Chung*2
Mr. Philip Yang*2
Ms. Chen Ying*2
Mr. C C Tung*3
Prof. Roger King*3
Mr. Philip Chow
Mr. Andrew Tung
Mr. Alan Tung*3
Mr. Simon Murray*3
Prof. Richard Wong
Mr. Edward Cheng*3
Mr. Clement Kwok*3

Name of Director
US$’000

For the year ended 

31s t December 2017

Mr. C C Tung
Prof. Roger King
Mr. Philip Chow
Mr. Andrew Tung
Mr. Alan Tung
Mr. Simon Murray
Prof. Richard Wong
Mr. Edward Cheng
Mr. Clement Kwok

Salary
and
benefits

Estimated
money value
of other
benefits *1

Employer’s
contribution
to provident
fund scheme

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
494
–
–
563
342
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
71
–
–
10
7
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
49
–
–
56
34
–
–
–
–

Salary
and
benefits

Estimated
money value
of other
benefits *1

Employer’s
contribution
to provident
fund scheme

717
–
–
543
437
–
–
–
–

106
–
–
10
10
–
–
–
–

71
–
–
54
43
–
–
–
–

Fees

–
–
–
–
19
13
13
13
27
27
24
71
40
97
–
–
36
82
36
36

Fees

107
60
97
–
–
51
85
51
51

Total

–
–
–
–
19
13
13
13
27
27
24
685
40
97
629
383
36
82
36
36

Total

1,001
60
97
607
490
51
85
51
51

*1 
*2 
*3 

Other benefits include car related expenses and club membership.

Appointed on 3rd August 2018.

Resigned on 3rd August 2018.

142

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

10.  DIRECTORS’ AND MANAGEMENT’S EMOLUMENTS (CONTINUED)

(a)  Directors’ emoluments (Continued)

During  the  year,  no  emoluments  were  paid  by  the  Group  to  any  of  the  Directors  as  an  inducement  to  join  or  upon 
joining  the  Group  or  as  compensation  for  loss  of  office.  No  Directors  of  the  Company  waived  or  agreed  to  waive  any 
emoluments during the year.

(b)  Five highest paid individuals

The five individuals whose emoluments were the highest in the Group for the year include two (2017: three) Directors 
whose  emoluments  are  reflected  in  the  analysis  presented  above.  The  emoluments  payable  to  the  remaining  three 
individuals (2017: two individuals) are as follows:

US$’000

Basic salaries, housing allowances, other

allowances and benefits in kind

Discretionary bonuses
Estimated money value of other benefits
Pension costs – defined contribution plans

The emoluments of the five individuals fell within the following bands:

Emolument bands (US$)

448,701 ~ 512,800
512,801 ~ 576,900
576,901 ~ 641,000
641,001 ~ 705,100
769,201 ~ 833,300
961,501 ~ 1,025,600

(HK$3,500,001 ~ HK$4,000,000)
(HK$4,000,001 ~ HK$4,500,000)
(HK$4,500,001 ~ HK$5,000,000)
(HK$5,000,001 ~ HK$5,500,000)
(HK$6,000,001 ~ HK$6,500,000)
(HK$7,500,001 ~ HK$8,000,000)

(c)  Key management compensation

US$’000

Salaries and other employee benefits
Estimated money value of other benefits
Pension costs – defined contribution plans

2018

1,394
540
12
166

2,112

2017

965
–
12
70

1,047

Number of individuals

2018

2017

–
–
2
2
1
–

5

2018

5,348
114
500

5,962

2
1
1
–
–
1

5

2017

4,756
152
439

5,347

The  Group  usually  determines  and  pays  discretionary  bonuses  to  employees  (including  Directors)  around  April/May 
each  year  based  on  the  actual  financial  results  of  the  Group  for  the  preceding  year.  The  discretionary  bonuses  shown 
above  represent  actual  payments  to  the  Directors  and  individuals  during  the  current  financial  year  in  relation  to 
performance for the preceding year.

143143

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

11.  OPERATING PROFIT

US$’000

Operating profit is arrived at after crediting:

Operating lease rental income

Land and buildings

and after charging:
Depreciation

Owned assets
Leased assets

Operating lease rental expenses

Vessels and equipment
Terminals and berths
Land and buildings

Rental outgoings in respect of an  

investment property

Amortisation of intangible assets
Amortisation of prepayments of lease premiums
Auditors' remuneration

Audit
Non-audit

2018

Restated
2017

Continuing
operations

Discontinued
operation

Continuing
operations

Discontinued
operation

25,691

–

30,158

–

232,138
135,316

254,099
5,618
33,462

15,365
17,843
236

2,961
1,355

14,723
3,445

–
56,905
–

–
–
–

173
46

275,374
122,826

244,698
4,803
33,472

15,555
11,123
219

2,487
2,747

23,391
6,891

–
53,957
–

–
–
–

123
23

Operating  lease  rental  expenses  of  US$266.8  million  and  US$26.4  million  (2017:  US$257.3  million  and  US$25.7  million) 
respectively are included in “operating costs” and “business and administrative expenses” in the consolidated profit and loss 
account.

For  the  year  ended  31st  December  2017,  the  non-audit  remuneration  paid  to  the  Group’s  auditor  is  inclusive  of  a  one-off 
fee in respect of a non-recurring advisory project. Excluding this fee, the total fees paid to the Group’s auditor for non-audit 
services was less than 50% of the amount paid for audit services.

12.  FINANCE COSTS

US$’000

Interest expense

Bank loans and bank overdrafts
Finance lease obligations

Amount capitalised under assets

Net interest expense

2018

60,681
82,636

143,317
(126)

143,191

Restated
2017

52,319
52,599

104,918
(7,500)

97,418

The borrowing costs of the loans to finance the assets under construction (note 17) represent an average capitalisation rate of 
approximately 3.2% (2017: 2.0%) per annum.

144

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13.  TAXATION

US$’000

Current taxation

Hong Kong profits tax
Overseas taxation

Deferred taxation

Hong Kong profits tax
Overseas taxation

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2018

2,044
14,785

16,829

(174)
41,965

41,791

58,620

2017

411
15,318

15,729

359
(3,655)

(3,296)

12,433

Taxation  has  been  provided  at  the  appropriate  tax  rates  prevailing  in  the  countries  in  which  the  Group  operates  on  the 
estimated assessable profits for the year. These rates range from 10% to 46% (2017: 13% to 46%) and the rate applicable for 
Hong Kong profits tax is 16.5% (2017: 16.5%).

The associated companies in the PRC enjoy preferential tax treatment.

The  tax  of  the  Group’s  profit  before  taxation  differs  from  the  theoretical  amount  that  would  arise  using  the  applicable  tax 
rates, being the weighted average of rates prevailing in the territories in which the Group operates, as follows:

US$’000

Profit before taxation
Share of profits of joint ventures
Share of profits of associated companies

Tax calculated at applicable tax rates
Income not subject to tax
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
Tax losses not recognised
Temporary differences not recognised
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses
Utilisation of previously unrecognised temporary differences
Recognition of previously unrecognised temporary differences
Withholding tax
Change in tax rates
Other items

2018

134,068
(2,953)
(11,371)

119,744

21,129
(293,893)
300,502
2,872
355
(686)
(642)
–
14,741
(460)
14,702

58,620

Restated
2017

159,871
(5,177)
(13,957)

140,737

38,054
(284,335)
278,050
2,849
935
(1,359)
(946)
1,601
1,571
(22,876)
(1,111)

12,433

145145

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

14.  EARNINGS/(LOSS) PER ORDINARY SHARE

The  calculation  of  basic  and  diluted  earnings/(loss)  per  ordinary  share  is  based  on  the  Group’s  profit/(loss)  attributable  to 

equity holders of the Company divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.

The basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per ordinary share are the same since there are no potential dilutive shares.

US$’000

Number of ordinary shares in issue (thousands)

Group's profit from continuing operations attributable

2018

625,793

Restated

2017

625,793

to equity holders of the Company

75,448

147,438

Earnings per share from continuing operations attributable

to equity holders of the Company (US cents)

12.1

23.6

Group's profit/(loss) from discontinued operation attributable

to equity holders of the Company

32,718

(9,782)

Earnings/(loss) per share from discontinued operation attributable

to equity holders of the Company (US cents)

5.2

(1.6)

15.  DIVIDENDS

US$’000

Interim paid: nil (2017: US2.14 cents) per ordinary share

2018

–

2017

13,388

The  Board  of  Directors  proposes  a  final  dividend  in  respect  of  2018  of  US7.7  cents  (2017:  nil)  per  ordinary  share.  The 

proposed dividend will be accounted for as an appropriation of retained profit in the year ending 31st December 2019.

146

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

16.  DISCONTINUED OPERATION

Analysis of the results, cash flows and assets and liabilities of the U.S. Terminal Business is as follows:

(a)  Discontinued operation

(i)  Results

US$’000

Revenue
Operating costs

Gross profit
Other operating income
Business and administrative expenses
Other (losses)/gains, net

Operating profit/(loss)
Finance costs

Profit/(loss) for the year

Note:

2018

131,721
(67,029)

64,692
560
(28,394)
(407)

36,451
(3,733)

32,718

2017

126,674
(105,655)

21,019
146
(27,969)
819

(5,985)
(3,797)

(9,782)

The Directors have reassessed the presentation and consider it is more appropriate to reflect only the revenue and the results arising from 

transactions with third parties under the discontinued operation and the inter-company profits are under continuing operations.

(ii)  Cash flows

US$’000

Operating cash flows
Investing cash flows
Financing cash flows

Total cash flows

2018

32,035
1,569
(15,625)

17,979

2017

46,998
(832)
(15,420)

30,746

147147

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

16.  DISCONTINUED OPERATION (CONTINUED)

(b)  Assets held for sale

US$’000

ASSETS
Non-current asset
Property, plant and equipment

Current assets
Inventories
Debtors and prepayments
Amount due from immediate holding company
Amount due from a fellow subsidiary
Cash and bank balances

Total assets (before intra-group elimination)
Less: Intra-group elimination

Total assets

(c)  Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale

US$’000

LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings
Other non-current liabilities

Current liabilities
Creditors and accruals
Amount due to an intermediate holding company
Amounts due to fellow subsidiaries
Borrowings

Total liabilities (before intra-group elimination)
Less: Intra-group elimination

Total liabilities

Note:

2018 

371,547

5,360
34,711
401
7,381
53,733

101,586

473,133
(401)

472,732

2018 

91,822
10,513

102,335

22,730
34,908
32,620
15,778

106,036

208,371
(67,323)

141,048

Assets held for sale and liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale above are presented before elimination of intra-group balances 

of US$0.4 million and US$67.3 million respectively. The aggregate net book amount of assets pledged as securities for loans and finance lease 

amounted to US$137.1 million.

148

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

16.  DISCONTINUED OPERATION (CONTINUED)

(d)  Operating lease commitments

The  Group  entered  into  the  Preferential  Assignment  Agreement  (the  “Agreement”)  with  the  City  of  Long  Beach 

(“COLB”)  for  the  use  of  the  Middle  Harbor  Terminal  (the  “Terminal”)  in  Long  Beach,  California  USA  on  30th  April 

2012. The term of the Agreement is 40 years commencing on 1st July 2011. As of 31st December 2018, the Group signed 

several  Amendments  to  Preferential  Assignment  Agreement  (the  “Amendment”)  with  COLB,  which  has  amended 

certain terms within Agreement and has altered the expected guaranteed minimum annual compensation to be made for 

the relevant period of the lease term.

The guaranteed minimum annual compensation is computed based on the guaranteed minimum annual compensation 

per  acreage  (ranging  from  US$180,000  to  US$270,000  in  the  first  5  years  of  the  lease)  multiplied  by  the  number  of 

acreages  of  the  Terminal  delivered,  which  is  subject  to  mutual  agreement  between  the  Group  and  COLB  along  the 

Terminal  construction  and  based  on  the  milestones  set  out  in  the  Agreement.  The  construction  is  expected  to  be 

completed  by  early  2021  and  the  estimated  number  of  acreages  of  the  Terminal  upon  completion  is  estimated  to  be 

approximately 304.7 acreages. As of 31st December 2018, the acreages of the Terminal used to determine the rental is 

193.0 acreages (2017: 193.0 acreages). The Group and COLB renegotiate the guaranteed minimum annual compensation 

per acre every 5 years which will not be less than the highest guaranteed minimum annual compensation in the previous 

5 years.

(e)  Capital commitments – Property, plant and equipment

US$’000

Contracted but not provided for

2018

6,362

2017

17,268

149149

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

17.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Container

vessels and

capitalised

dry-docking

Terminal

Freehold

land and

Leasehold

Vehicles,

Assets

under

Containers

equipment

buildings

Buildings

improvement

computer

and

and

outside

outside

and

and other

costs

construction

chassis

improvement

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

furniture

equipment

Total

US$’000

Cost

At 31st December 2017

5,729,447

172,882

2,356,667

500,095

Currency translation adjustments

Government grants

Additions

Reclassification

Classified as assets held for sale (note 16)

Disposals

Disposal of subsidiaries

–

–

30,794

163,520

–

(28,575)

–

–

–

(49)

–

54,532

301,646

(170,155)

(32,723)

–

–

–

–

(80,678)

–

–

(2,817)

1,148

6,635

(414,814)

(8,053)

–

7,175

10

49,541

(2,323)

–

3

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

60,134

(1,593)

–

4,632

–

(1,635)

(4,165)

(216)

160,398

9,036,339

(1,685)

–

(5,640)

(2,817)

17,922

410,677

–

–

(27,691)

(280)

–

(449,172)

(149,162)

(496)

At 31st December 2018

5,895,186

24,536

2,577,586

82,194

7,188

47,218

57,157

148,664

8,839,729

Accumulated depreciation

At 31st December 2017

Currency translation adjustments

Charge for the year

Classified as assets held for sale (note 16)

Disposals

Disposal of subsidiaries

At 31st December 2018

Net book amount

1,415,252

–

232,265

–

(28,206)

–

1,619,311

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

1,060,319

117,774

3,150

(39)

108,048

–

(62,006)

–

–

22,058

(76,995)

(7,453)

–

7

77

–

–

–

19,916

(681)

1,435

–

–

–

47,652

(1,406)

5,376

(630)

(4,060)

(216)

120,819

2,784,882

(1,380)

16,363

–

(3,499)

385,622

(77,625)

(27,570)

(129,295)

(197)

(413)

1,106,322

55,384

3,234

20,670

46,716

108,035

2,959,672

At 31st December 2018

4,275,875

24,536

1,471,264

26,810

At 31st December 2017

4,314,195

172,882

1,296,348

382,321

Net book amount of leased assets

At 31st December 2018

At 31st December 2017

2,605,709

2,549,229

–

–

100,437

–

109,391

91,301

3,954

4,025

–

–

26,548

10,441

40,629

5,880,057

29,625

12,482

39,579

6,251,457

–

–

–

–

–

2,706,146

761

2,750,682

150

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

17.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)

Container
vessels and
capitalised
dry-docking
costs

Assets
under
construction

Containers
and
chassis

Terminal
equipment
and
improvement

Freehold
land and
buildings
outside
Hong Kong

Buildings
outside
Hong Kong

Leasehold
improvement
and
furniture

Vehicles,
computer
and other
equipment

US$’000

Cost

At 31st December 2016
Currency translation adjustments
Additions
Reclassification
Disposals

4,970,230
–
18,091
810,893
(69,767)

727,511
–
340,505
(895,134)
–

2,196,392
61
227,934
–
(67,720)

482,066
–
2,054
84,241
(68,266)

At 31st December 2017

5,729,447

172,882

2,356,667

500,095

Accumulated depreciation
At 31st December 2016
Currency translation adjustments
Charge for the year
Disposals

At 31st December 2017

Net book amount

1,268,761
–
216,106
(69,615)

1,415,252

–
–
–
–

–

970,062
46
154,002
(63,791)

150,841
–
34,939
(68,006)

1,060,319

117,774

At 31st December 2017

4,314,195

172,882

1,296,348

382,321

At 31st December 2016

3,701,469

727,511

1,226,330

331,225

Net book amount of leased assets

At 31st December 2017

At 31st December 2016

2,549,229

1,890,435

–

–

109,391

120,513

91,301

98,192

7,005
170
–
–
–

7,175

2,948
127
75
–

3,150

4,025

4,057

–

–

46,701
2,813
27
–
–

49,541

17,026
1,048
1,842
–

19,916

29,625

29,675

–

–

59,237
1,902
1,170
–
(2,175)

145,574
1,890
15,471
–
(2,537)

Total

8,634,716
6,836
605,252
–
(210,465)

60,134

160,398

9,036,339

41,390
1,568
6,792
(2,098)

107,015
1,461
14,726
(2,383)

2,558,043
4,250
428,482
(205,893)

47,652

120,819

2,784,882

12,482

17,847

39,579

6,251,457

38,559

6,076,673

–

–

761

980

2,750,682

2,110,120

(a)  The  aggregate  net  book  amount  of  assets  pledged  as  security  for  bank  loans  amounts  to  US$2,418.2  million  (2017: 
US$2,597.8  million).  Specific  charges  on  vessels  of  the  Group  include  legal  mortgages  and  assignments  of  insurance 
claims and charter hire income relating to these vessels.

(b)  Interest  costs  of  US$0.1  million  (2017:  US$7.5  million)  during  the  year  were  capitalised  as  part  of  assets  under 

construction.

(c)  Depreciation charge of US$347.0 million (2017: US$377.2 million) for the year has been expensed in “operating costs” 

and US$20.5 million (2017: US$21.0 million) in “business and administrative expenses”.

(d)  As at 31st December 2018 and 2017, the buildings outside Hong Kong are held under medium-term leasehold land.

(e)  Government  grants  of  US$2.8  million  received  during  the  year  relating  to  the  purchase  of  terminal  equipment  and 

improvement are recognised as a deduction from the carrying amount of the related assets (2017: nil).

Property, plant and equipment include the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under finance leases:

US$’000

Cost – capitalised finance leases
Accumulated depreciation

Net book amount

2018

3,527,791
(821,645)

2,706,146

2017

3,456,987
(706,305)

2,750,682

The  Group  leases  various  container  vessels,  containers,  terminal  equipment  and  other  equipment  under  non-cancellable 
finance lease agreements for both years. The lease terms are between 5 and 25 years.

151151

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

18.  INVESTMENT PROPERTY

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year

Additions

Fair value gain

Balance at end of year

2018

270,000

500

270,500

39,500

310,000

2017

220,000

6,564

226,564

43,436

270,000

Background and valuation processes of the Group

The  investment  property,  “Wall  Street  Plaza”,  is  a  commercial  property  located  at  88,  Pine  Street,  New  York,  USA.  The 
property is situated on three parcels of freehold land, all of which are wholly owned by the Group.

Valuation processes of the Group

The Group’s investment property was valued at 31st December 2018 by an independent professionally qualified valuer who 
holds a recognised relevant professional qualification. The Group’s finance department reviews the valuation performed by 
the independent valuer for financial reporting purposes. This team reports directly to the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”). 
Discussions  of  valuation  processes  and  results  are  held  between  the  CFO,  the  finance  team  and  the  valuer.  As  at  31st 

December 2018, the fair value of the property has been determined by Cushman & Wakefield, Inc.

Valuation techniques

Fair  value  of  the  investment  property  is  derived  by  using  the  discounted  cash  flow  method.  The  net  present  value  of  the 

income stream is estimated by applying an appropriate discount rate which reflects the risk profile.

There were no changes to the valuation techniques during the year.

Information about fair value measurement using significant unobservable inputs

Discount  rate  is  estimated  by  Cushman  &  Wakefield,  Inc.  based  on  the  risk  profile  of  the  property  being  valued.  If  the 

discount rate is higher, the fair value would be lower. At 31st December 2018, discount rate of 7.0% per annum (2017: 7.3% 

per annum) is used in the valuation.

Net  operating  income  growth  rates  of  3%  per  annum  (2017:  3%  per  annum)  for  the  second  and  third  years  and  3%  per 

annum (2017: 3% per annum) for the remaining years are used in the valuation. If the growth rate is higher, the fair value 

would be higher.

Prevailing market rents are estimated based on recent lettings of US$52 per sq ft to US$56 per sq ft (2017: US$50 per sq ft to 

US$53 per sq ft), within the subject property. If the rents are higher, the fair value would be higher.

152

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
　
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

19.  PREPAYMENTS OF LEASE PREMIUMS

The Group’s interests in leasehold land and land use rights represent prepaid operating lease payments for leases between 27 

and 41 years and their net book values are analysed as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year

Currency translation adjustments

Amortisation

Balance at end of year

2018

7,972

(284)

(236)

7,452

2017

7,818

373

(219)

7,972

Amortisation  of  US$0.2  million  (2017:  US$0.2  million)  is  included  in  “business  and  administrative  expenses”  in  the 

consolidated profit and loss account.

20.  JOINT VENTURES

US$’000

Share of net assets

2018

8,940

2017

10,833

The Group’s share of assets, liabilities and results of the joint ventures are summarised below:

US$’000

Non-current assets

Current assets

Current liabilities

Share of net assets

Income

Expenses

Share of profits of joint ventures

Share of total comprehensive income of joint ventures

Particulars of the joint ventures at 31st December 2018 are shown on page 183.

2018

1,083

9,604

(1,747)

8,940

14,599

(11,646)

2,953

2,575

2017

1,246

14,488

(4,901)

10,833

15,579

(10,402)

5,177

5,655

153153

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

21.  ASSOCIATED COMPANIES

US$’000

Share of net assets

2018

139,676

2017

148,840

The Group’s share of assets, liabilities and results of the associated companies are summarised as follows:

US$’000

Non-current assets

Current assets

Non-current liabilities

Current liabilities

Share of net assets

Income

Expenses

Share of profits of associated companies

Share of total comprehensive income of associated companies

Particulars of the associated companies at 31st December 2018 are shown on page 183.

22.  INTANGIBLE ASSETS

US$’000

At 1st January 2017

Cost

Accumulated amortisation

Net book amount

Year ended 31st December 2017

Opening net book amount

Additions

Disposals

Amortisation

Closing net book amount

At 31st December 2017

Cost

Accumulated amortisation

Net book amount

154

2018

131,191

12,155

(132)

(3,538)

139,676

39,516

(28,145)

11,371

5,000

2017

144,699

14,197

(69)

(9,987)

148,840

39,467

(25,510)

13,957

22,462

Computer

software costs

180,878

(120,735)

60,143

60,143

6,874

(6,690)

(11,123)

49,204

145,389

(96,185)

49,204

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

22.  INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED)

US$’000

Year ended 31st December 2018

Opening net book amount

Additions

Disposals

Amortisation

Closing net book amount

At 31st December 2018

Cost

Accumulated amortisation

Net book amount

Computer

software costs

49,204

1,724

(657)
(17,843) 

32,428 

146,452
(114,024) 

32,428 

Computer software costs mainly comprise internally generated capitalised software development costs.

Amortisation  of  US$17.8  million  (2017:  US$11.1  million)  is  included  in  “business  and  administrative  expenses”  in  the 

consolidated profit and loss account.

The Group had written-off fully amortised intangible assets of US$719 (2017: US$35.7 million) during the year.

23.  DEFERRED TAXATION ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets

Deferred taxation liabilities

2018

1,233

(106,827)

(105,594)

2017

1,476

(65,221)

(63,745)

Deferred  taxation  assets  and  liabilities  are  offset  when  there  is  a  legal  right  to  set  off  current  taxation  assets  with  current 

taxation  liabilities  and  when  the  deferred  taxation  relates  to  the  same  taxation  authority.  The  above  assets/(liabilities) 

shown in the consolidated balance sheet are determined after appropriate offsetting of the relevant amounts and include the 

following:

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets to be recovered after more than twelve months

2018

299

2017

723

Deferred taxation liabilities to be settled after more than twelve months

(106,820)

(65,006)

155155

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

23.  DEFERRED TAXATION ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)

Deferred  taxation  is  calculated  in  full  on  temporary  differences  under  the  liability  method  using  applicable  tax  rates 
prevailing in the countries in which the Group operates. The movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities (prior to 
offsetting of balances within the same taxation jurisdiction) during the year were as follows:

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets

At 31st December 2016
Currency translation adjustments
(Charged)/credited to consolidated profit 

and loss account

At 31st December 2017
Currency translation adjustments
(Charged)/credited to consolidated profit 

and loss account

At 31st December 2018

Accelerated
accounting
depreciation

Revenue
expenditure

Tax
losses

548
7

134

689
(51)

(120)

518

6,899
63

(3,043)

3,919
(74)

(478)

3,367

3,207
–

1,088

4,295
(9)

375

4,661

US$’000

Deferred taxation liabilities

At 31st December 2016
(Credited)/charged to consolidated 

profit and loss account

At 31st December 2017
Currency translation adjustments
Charged/(credited) to consolidated 

profit and loss account

At 31st December 2018

Accelerated
tax
depreciation

Revaluation
of investment
property

Revenue
expenditure

Undistributed
profits of
subsidiaries
and affiliates

382

69,229

1,296

1,678
(76)

164

1,766

(9,167)

60,062
–

27,573

87,635

6,109

2,477

8,586
–

(234)

8,352

2,044

278

2,322
–

14,065

16,387

Total

10,654
70

(1,821)

8,903
(134)

(223)

8,546

Total

77,764

(5,116)

72,648
(76)

41,568

114,140

Deferred  taxation  assets  of  US$33.6  million  (2017:  US$31.6  million)  arising  from  unused  tax  losses  of  US$159.0  million 
(2017: US$146.8 million) have not been recognised in the consolidated financial statements. Unused tax losses of US$113.1 
million  (2017:  US$101.6  million)  have  no  expiry  date  and  the  remaining  balance  will  expire  at  various  dates  up  to  and 
including 2038.

Deferred  taxation  liabilities  of  US$106.4  million  (2017:  US$102.0  million)  on  temporary  differences  associated  with 
investments  in  subsidiaries  of  US$439.3  million  (2017:  US$430.4  million)  have  not  been  recognised  as  there  is  no  current 
intention of remitting the retained profit of these subsidiaries to the holding companies in the foreseeable future.

156

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

24.  PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS

The  Group  operates  a  number  of  defined  benefit  and  defined  contribution  pension  and  retirement  schemes  in  the  main 
countries  in  which  the  Group  operates.  The  total  charges  to  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  for  the  year  were 
US$32.2 million (2017: US$30.5 million).

Defined contribution schemes

The  principal  defined  contribution  schemes  are  operated  in  Hong  Kong,  the  PRC  and  the  USA.  These  schemes  cover 
approximately 79% of the Group’s employees. Contributions to the defined contribution schemes, all the assets of which are 
held in trust funds separate from the Group, are based on a percentage of an employee’s salary, depending upon the length of 
service of the employee, but the Group’s contributions to certain schemes may be reduced by contributions forfeited by those 
employees who leave the schemes prior to vesting fully in those contributions.

In  2008,  the  Group  terminated  the  defined  benefit  scheme  and  post-retirement  medical  plans  in  the  USA  at  the  request  of 
the labour unions. All the pension assets and obligations were transferred to a defined benefit multi-employer pension plan 
and a defined benefit multi-employer post-retirement medical plan (the “Plans”) together with other industry players. Since 
the Group is not able to identify its share of the underlying financial position and performance of the Plans with sufficient 
reliability for accounting purposes, accordingly the Plans are accounted for by the Group as defined contribution plans.

The charges for the defined contribution schemes to the consolidated profit and loss account during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Contributions to the schemes
Forfeitures utilised

Defined benefit schemes

The amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are as follows:

US$’000

Funded scheme assets

Funded scheme liabilities
Unfunded scheme liabilities

Net scheme (liabilities)/assets

Net funded scheme (liabilities)/assets

2018

31,022
(71)

30,951

2018

–

(3,200)
–

(3,200)

(3,200)

2017

29,006
(92)

28,914

2017

243

–
(38)

(38)

205

The  principal  defined  benefit  scheme  is  operated  in  the  United  Kingdom  which  was  valued  by  Barnett  Waddingham  LLP. 
The defined benefit scheme (the “Scheme”) cover less than 1% of the Group’s employees and are funded. The assets of the 
Scheme  are  held  in  trust  funds  separate  from  the  Group.  Contributions  to  the  Scheme  are  assessed  in  accordance  with  the 
advice of qualified actuaries in compliance with local practice and regulations. The actuarial assumptions used to calculate 
the projected benefit obligations of the Group’s pension schemes vary according to the economic conditions of the countries 
in which they are situated.

157157

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

24.  PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

Defined benefit schemes (Continued)

Net funded scheme (liabilities)/assets (Continued)

The net scheme assets of the Scheme recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are determined as follows:

US$’000

Fair value of plan assets

Present value of funded obligations

(Deficit)/surplus of funded plan

2018

190,210

(193,410)

(3,200)

2017

220,490

(220,247)

243

Movements in the fair value of the plan assets of the Scheme during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year

Currency translation adjustments

Interest income on plan assets

Remeasurement (loss)/gain on assets

Contributions from the Group

Contributions from the plan members

Benefits paid

Balance at end of year

Movements in the present value of obligations of the Scheme during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year

Currency translation adjustments

Current service cost

Interest expense

Experience losses/(gains) on liabilities

Gains from changes to demographic assumptions

(Gains)/losses from changes to financial assumptions

Contributions from the plan members

Benefits paid

Balance at end of year

158

2018

220,490

(13,384)

5,326

(13,261)

2,887

105

(11,953)

190,210

2018

220,247

(13,419)

1,290

5,294

65

(1,384)

(6,835)

105

(11,953)

193,410

2017

200,690

19,116

5,420

6,781

3,074

94

(14,685)

220,490

2017

212,472

20,272

1,251

5,724

(2,233)

(5,293)

2,645

94

(14,685)

220,247

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

24.  PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

Defined benefit schemes (Continued)

Net funded scheme (liabilities)/assets (Continued)

The charges of the Scheme recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account are as follows:

US$’000

Current service cost
Interest expense
Interest income on plan assets

Net expense recognised for the year

2018

1,290
5,294
(5,326)

1,258

2017

1,251
5,724
(5,420)

1,555

Charges  of  US$1.3  million  (2017:  US$1.6  million)  were  included  in  “business  and  administrative  expenses”  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account.

The main actuarial assumptions made for the Scheme were as follows:

Discount rate
Inflation rate
Expected future salary increases
Expected future pension increases

2018

2.8%
3.5%
3.5%
2.6%

2017

2.5%
3.4%
3.4%
2.6%

Actual return on plan assets (US$’000)

(7,935)

12,201

At 31st December 2018, if discount rate had been 0.2% higher/lower, with all other variables held constant, the fair value of 
the funded obligations would have been US$4.9 million lower/US$5.2 million higher. At 31st December 2018, if inflation rate 
had been 0.1% higher/lower, with all other variables held constant, the fair value of the funded obligations would have been 
US$1.7  million  higher/US$0.9  million  lower.  The  sensitivities  show  the  likely  effect  of  a  single  assumption  being  adjusted 
while holding all other assumptions constant.

Plan assets of the Scheme comprise the following:

US$’000

Equity
Debt
Others

2018

2017

60,240
118,333
11,637

190,210

32%
62%
6%

100%

39,041
159,205
22,244

220,490

18%
72%
10%

100%

Expected  normal  and  deficit  reduction  contributions  to  the  Scheme  for  the  year  ending  31st  December  2019  is  US$2.9 
million.

159159

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

24.  PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

Defined benefit schemes (Continued)

Net funded scheme (liabilities)/assets (Continued)

Through its defined benefit pension plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks as follows:

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

(cid:127) 

Investment risk. The Scheme holds investments in asset classes, such as equities, which have volatile market values and 
while these assets are expected to provide real returns over the long-term, the short-term volatility can cause additional 
funding to be required if deficit emerges.

Interest rate and market risk. The Scheme’s liabilities are assessed using market yields on high quality corporate bonds 
to  discount  the  liabilities.  As  the  Scheme  holds  assets  such  as  equities,  the  value  of  the  assets  and  liabilities  may  not 
move in the same way.

Inflation risk. A significant proportion of the benefits under the Scheme are linked to inflation. Although the Scheme’s 
assets are expected to provide a good hedge against inflation over the long term, movements over the short-term could 
lead to deficits emerging.

(cid:127) 

Longevity and other demographic risk. If members live longer than assumed, a deficit will emerge in the Scheme.

25.  RESTRICTED BANK BALANCES

US$’000

Non-current
Current

Restricted bank balances

2018

58,001
3,121

61,122

2017

60,414
3,425

63,839

As  at  31st  December  2018,  the  restricted  bank  balances  of  US$61.1  million  (2017:  US$63.8  million)  are  funds  pledged  as 
securities for banking facilities or required to be utilised for specific purposes.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s restricted bank balances are mainly denominated in US dollar (2017: US dollar).

The credit quality of restricted bank balances by reference to Standard & Poor’s, and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

2018

1,522
59,595
5

61,122

2017

1,709
62,128
2

63,839

US$’000

AA
A
BBB

160

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

26.  INVESTMENTS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/

AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Disposals
Disposal of subsidiaries
Change in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income

Balance at end of year

2018

45,383
(6)
(1)
(23)
(20,931)

24,422

2017

93,148
2
(60,259)
–
12,492

45,383

Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income/available-for-sale financial assets include the following:

US$’000

Unlisted equity security
Others

2018

23,100
1,322

24,422

2017

44,200
1,183

45,383

The  carrying  amounts  of  the  Group’s  investments  at  fair  value  through  other  comprehensive  income/available-for-sale 
financial assets are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

Renminbi
Hong Kong dollar
Other currencies

2018

23,129
1,166
127

24,422

2017

44,231
999
153

45,383

27.  INVESTMENTS AT AMORTISED COST/HELD-TO-MATURITY INVESTMENTS

US$’000

Listed debt securities

Hong Kong
Overseas

Less: Current portion included in current assets

Market value

2018

2017

108,796
114,163

222,959
(33,568)

189,391

223,530

129,043
105,886

234,929
(17,040)

217,889

242,672

161161

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

27.  INVESTMENTS AT AMORTISED COST/HELD-TO-MATURITY INVESTMENTS 

(CONTINUED)
Movements in investments at amortised cost/held-to-maturity investments are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Adjustment on adoption of HKFRS 9

Restated balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Additions
Disposals
Redemptions on maturity
Amortisation
Impairment

Balance at end of year

2018

234,929
(275)

234,654
–
45,576
(38,143)
(17,000)
(143)
(1,985)

222,959

2017

236,917
–

236,917
2,317
78,627
(40,611)
(41,881)
(440)
–

234,929

The carrying amounts of investments at amortised cost/held-to-maturity investments are mainly denominated in US dollar 
(2017: US dollar).

The  credit  quality  of  investments  at  amortised  cost/held-to-maturity  investments  by  reference  to  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or 
Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

AAA
AA
A
BBB
Non-ranking

2018

1,982
6,240
82,621
71,717
60,399

2017

8,011
6,292
70,651
82,710
67,265

222,959

234,929

The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is the carrying amount of investments at amortised cost/held-
to-maturity investments.

28.  OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS

US$’000

Deposit for container purchase
Other deposit
Others

29.  INVENTORIES

US$’000

Bunker
Consumable stores

162

2018

83,938
9,590
10,483

104,011

2018

106,835
12,875

119,710

2017

20,965
7,440
12,458

40,863

2017

87,698
14,459

102,157

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

30.  DEBTORS AND PREPAYMENTS

US$’000

Trade receivables

Less: provision for impairment

Trade receivables – net

Other debtors

Other prepayments

Utility and other deposits

2018

379,067

(29,525)

349,542

122,299

148,493

13,895

634,229

2017

399,673

(16,061)

383,612

86,291

107,756

12,277

589,936

The  credit  quality  of  trade  receivables  net  of  provision  for  impairment,  by  reference  to  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s 

credit ratings (if available) or to historical information about counterparty default rates is as follows:

US$’000

Counterparties with external credit rating

A

BBB

BB

Counterparties without external credit rating

Group 1

Group 2

Group 3

Notes:

2018

2017

18,310

6,598

4,967

29,875

17,221

301,234

1,212

319,667

349,542

16,627

7,384

163

24,174

18,035

341,178

225

359,438

383,612

Group 1 – new customers (less than 6 months).

Group 2 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with no defaults in the past.

Group 3 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with some defaults in the past.

Trade  receivables  are  normally  due  for  payment  on  presentation  of  invoices  or  granted  with  an  approved  credit  period 

ranging mainly from 10 to 30 days. Debtors with overdue balances are requested to settle all outstanding balances before any 

further credit is granted.

163163

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

30.  DEBTORS AND PREPAYMENTS (CONTINUED)

The ageing analysis of the Group’s trade receivables, net of provision for impairment, prepared in accordance with the dates 
of invoices (2017: due dates of invoices), is as follows:

US$’000

Below one month
Two to three months
Four to six months
Over six months

2018

269,210
67,182
7,770
5,380

349,542

2017

344,374
27,608
7,523
4,107

383,612

There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a large number of internationally 
dispersed customers. Other debtors are fully performing.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Canadian dollar
Euro
Japanese yen
Hong Kong dollar
Renminbi
Pound sterling
Australian dollar
Other currencies

Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Adjustment on adoption of HKFRS 9

Restated balance at beginning of year
Provision
Write off
Reversal
Classified as assets held for sale (note 16)

Balance at end of year

2018

113,941
13,218
57,088
18,377
7,336
42,681
12,726
20,609
63,566

349,542

2018

16,061
12,897

28,958
16,742
(10,576)
(5,390)
(209)

29,525

2017

145,868
12,978
61,027
19,212
5,692
46,403
11,025
24,237
57,170

383,612

2017

16,313
–

16,313
3,683
(1,287)
(2,648)
–

16,061

The provision for impairment has been included in “business and administrative expenses” in the consolidated profit and loss 
account.

To  measure  the  expected  credit  losses  which  are  included  in  the  balance  of  provision  for  impairment  of  trade  receivables, 
trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and due dates of invoices.

164

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

31.  AMOUNTS DUE FROM JOINT VENTURES

The amounts receivable are unsecured, interest free and have no specific repayment terms.

32.  AMOUNTS DUE FROM FELLOW SUBSIDIARIES

The amounts receivable are unsecured, interest free and have no specific repayment terms.

33.  AMOUNTS DUE FROM RELATED COMPANIES

The amounts receivable are unsecured, interest free and have no specific repayment terms.

34.  PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS

US$’000

Listed equity securities

Hong Kong
Overseas

Market value of listed equity securities
Unit trust
Listed debt securities

Hong Kong
Overseas

2018

40,500
9,089

49,589
5,720

209,837
113,111

378,257

2017

23,379
12,473

35,852
6,140

173,900
78,828

294,720

The carrying amounts of the Group’s portfolio investments at fair value through profit or loss are mainly denominated in US 
dollar (2017: US dollar).

The credit quality of listed debt securities by reference to Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

A
BBB
BB
Non-ranking

2018

69,328
127,819
8,800
117,001

322,948

2017

40,320
121,618
9,688
81,102

252,728

The fair value of all listed equity securities and debt securities are based on their current bid prices in active markets.

35.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

US$’000

Asset
Current asset

Bunker price derivative contracts

Liability
Current liability

Bunker price derivative contracts

2018

2017

–

1,825

5,565

–

165165

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

35.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

The  credit  quality  of  derivative  financial  assets  by  reference  to  the  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s  credit  ratings  is  as 
follows:

US$’000

AA
A

2018

–
–

–

2017

589
1,236

1,825

At 31st December 2018, the Group had entered into contracts covering approximately 11% (2017: 7%) of expected purchase 
of bunker for the next year through bunker price derivative contracts.

36.  CASH AND BANK BALANCES

US$’000

Short-term bank deposits

– Maturing within three months from the date of placement

Cash at bank and in hand

2018

2017

1,202,356
382,109

1,584,465

1,485,327
455,648

1,940,975

The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash and bank balances are mainly denominated in US dollar (2017: US dollar).

The credit quality of cash at bank and in hand and short-term bank deposits by reference to Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and/
or Fitch’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

AA
A
BBB
BB
B
Others

37.  SHARE CAPITAL

US$’000

Authorised:

900,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.10 each
65,000,000 convertible redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each
50,000,000 redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each

2018

538,611
861,272
170,966
2,849
4,639
6,128

1,584,465

2017

504,840
1,001,437
424,027
6,849
182
3,640

1,940,975

2018

2017

90,000
65,000
50,000

205,000

90,000
65,000
50,000

205,000

166

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

37.  SHARE CAPITAL (CONTINUED)

Issued and fully paid:

At 31st December 2017 and 2018

38.  RESERVES

Number of shares
(thousands)

Ordinary shares
US$’000

625,793

62,579

US$’000

Balance at 31st December 2016
Total comprehensive income for the year
Transactions with owners
2017 interim dividend

Balance at 31st December 2017
Adjustment on adoption of HKFRS 9

Restated balance at 1st January 2018
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 

for the year

Share
premium

Contributed
surplus

Capital
redemption
reserve

Investments
revaluation
reserve

172,457
–

–

172,457
–

172,457

88,547
–

–

88,547
–

88,547

4,696
–

–

4,696
–

4,696

30,852
12,492

–

43,344
–

43,344

Foreign
exchange
translation
reserve

27,079
15,961

Retained
profit

4,133,076
148,162

Total

4,456,707
176,615

–

(13,388)

(13,388)

43,040
–

4,267,850
(13,172)

4,619,934
(13,172)

43,040

4,254,678

4,606,762

–

–

–

(20,931)

(16,339)

103,059

65,789

Balance at 31st December 2018

172,457

88,547

4,696

22,413

26,701

4,357,737

4,672,551

39.  BORROWINGS

US$’000

Non-current
Bank loans

– Secured
– Unsecured

Finance lease obligations

Current
Bank loans

– Secured
– Unsecured

Finance lease obligations

2018

2017

1,240,877
226,976
2,227,981

3,695,834

242,126
48,998
210,798

501,922

1,531,192
275,974
2,122,859

3,930,025

256,258
33,998
333,902

624,158

Total borrowings

4,197,756

4,554,183

167167

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

39.  BORROWINGS (CONTINUED)
The maturity of borrowings is as follows:

US$’000

As at 31st December 2018

2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024 onwards

As at 31st December 2017

2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023 onwards

Bank
loans

291,124
450,282
315,224
264,814
154,760
282,773

1,758,977

290,256
318,809
453,011
384,164
237,426
413,756

2,097,422

Borrowings are secured by property, plant and equipment of the Group (note 17 (a)).

The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows:

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations

The carrying amounts and fair values of the non-current borrowings are as follows:

Finance leases

Present
value

210,798
174,089
467,224
224,876
307,390
1,054,402

2,438,779

333,902
192,216
155,191
447,895
150,202
1,177,355

2,456,761

Minimum
payments

286,499
242,211
524,641
270,008
342,201
1,121,710

2,787,270

392,262
242,516
200,140
509,969
180,958
1,247,815

2,773,660

2018

3.7%
3.8%

2017

2.8%
3.1%

US$’000

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations

Carrying amounts

Fair values

2018

1,467,853
2,227,981

2017

1,807,166
2,122,859

2018

1,467,003
2,193,394

2017

1,805,997
2,095,766

3,695,834

3,930,025

3,660,397

3,901,763

The fair values are based on cash flows discounted using rates based on the borrowing rates ranging from 2.4% to 5.4% (2017: 
2.0% to 5.1%).

The carrying amounts of short-term borrowings approximate their fair values.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in US dollar (2017: US dollar).

The  fixed  interest  rate  borrowings  of  the  Group  as  at  31st  December  2018  amounted  to  US$871.8  million  (2017:  US$892.3 
million). The remaining borrowings of US$3,326.0 million (2017: US$3,661.9 million) were subject to floating interest rates.

168

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

40.  CREDITORS AND ACCRUALS

US$’000

Trade payables
Other creditors
Accrued expenses
Deferred revenue
Contract liabilities

2018

193,382
162,251
443,200
25,923
13,429

838,185

The ageing analysis of the Group’s trade payables, prepared in accordance with the dates of invoices, is as follows:

US$’000

Below one month
Two to three months
Four to six months
Over six months

2018

109,641
75,285
2,524
5,932

193,382

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade payables are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Canadian dollar
Euro
Japanese yen
Hong Kong dollar
Renminbi
Other currencies

2018

72,072
7,240
16,333
18,977
16,096
28,072
34,592

2017

179,189
113,216
420,654
27,201
–

740,260

2017

138,973
32,483
1,309
6,424

179,189

2017

88,149
8,033
14,007
16,503
16,007
27,991
8,499

193,382

179,189

41.  AMOUNTS DUE TO JOINT VENTURES

The amounts payable are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.

42.  AMOUNTS DUE TO FELLOW SUBSIDIARIES

The amounts payable are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.

43.  AMOUNTS DUE TO RELATED COMPANIES

The amounts payable are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.

169169

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

44.  COMMITMENTS

(a)  Capital commitments – Property, plant and equipment

US$’000

Contracted but not provided for

(b)  Operating lease commitments

2018

91,618

Restated

2017

267,148

The future aggregate minimum lease rental expenses under non-cancellable operating leases are payable in the following 

Vessels and 

equipment

Land and 

buildings

134,796

67,996

46,789

19,273

4,950

3,702

38,710

28,818

18,576

14,096

13,226

28,682

Total

173,506

96,814

65,365

33,369

18,176

32,384

277,506

142,108

419,614

145,501

75,240

67,999

46,791

19,295

8,920

363,746

32,294

29,604

19,162

11,630

8,210

19,381

120,281

177,795

104,844

87,161

58,421

27,505

28,301

484,027

years:

US$’000

At 31st December 2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

2024 onwards

At 31st December 2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023 onwards

170

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

44.  COMMITMENTS (CONTINUED)

(c)  Operating lease rental receivable

The  future  aggregate  minimum  lease  rental  income  under  non-cancellable  operating  leases  are  receivable  in  the 
following years:

US$’000

At 31st December 2018

2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024 onwards

At 31st December 2017

2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023 onwards

Vessels and 
equipment

Land and 
buildings

23,201
21,999
20,793
18,326
16,487
45,779

Total

23,201
21,999
20,793
18,326
16,487
45,779

146,585

146,585

24,000
21,128
19,425
17,278
14,920
42,889

25,235
21,128
19,425
17,278
14,920
42,889

139,640

140,875

–
–
–
–
–
–

–

1,235
–
–
–
–
–

1,235

45.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT

(a)  The reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities is as follows:

US$’000

At 31st December 2016

Cash flow

– Inflow from financing activities
– Outflow from financing activities

Non-cash changes

– Inception of finance leases (note 45(c))
– Finance costs

At 31st December 2017

Cash flow

– Inflow from financing activities
– Outflow from financing activities

Non-cash changes

– Classified as liabilities directly associated  

with assets held for sale (note 16)
– Inception of finance leases (note 45(c))
– Finance costs

Bank
borrowings

2,198,407

447,361
(552,076)

–
3,730

Finance
lease
obligations

1,892,330

659,521
(236,838)

129,401
12,347

Total

4,090,737

1,106,882
(788,914)

129,401
16,077

2,097,422

2,456,761

4,554,183

213,692
(506,679)

(48,411)
–
2,953

262,228
(267,148)

(59,189)
31,720
14,407

475,920
(773,827)

(107,600)
31,720
17,360

At 31st December 2018

1,758,977

2,438,779

4,197,756

171171

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

45.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

(b)  Disposal of subsidiaries

US$’000

Net assets disposed

Property, plant and equipment

Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income

Restricted bank balances

Cash and bank balances

Debtors and prepayments

Creditors and accruals

Current taxation

Amounts payable to group companies

Release of reserve upon disposal

Gain on disposal

Cash consideration

Net cash outflow arising on disposal:

Cash consideration

Less: Cash and bank balances disposed

Net cash outflow

2018

2017

83

23

1,062

14,363

1,431

(822)

(280)

(6,898)

8,962

(116)

3,663

12,509

12,509

(14,363)

(1,854)

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

(c)  Major non-cash transactions

During  the  year,  major  non-cash  transactions  included  the  inception  of  finance  leases  of  US$31.7  million  (2017: 

US$129.4 million) and non-cash dividend received from investments at fair value through other comprehensive income/

available-for-sale financial assets of US$14.7 million (2017: US$13.3 million).

(d)  Analysis of cash and cash equivalents

US$’000

2018

2017

Bank balances and deposits maturing within three months  

from the date of placement

1,584,465

1,940,975

172

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

46.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

The Company is controlled by COSCO SHIPPING, the ultimate parent company and a state-owned enterprise established in 
the PRC.

COSCO  SHIPPING  itself  is  controlled  by  the  PRC  government,  which  also  owns  a  significant  portion  of  the  productive 
assets  in  the  PRC.  Government-related  entities  and  their  subsidiaries  directly  or  indirectly  controlled,  jointly  controlled  or 
significantly  influenced  by  the  PRC  government  are  defined  as  related  parties  of  the  Group.  On  that  basis,  related  parties 
include  COSCO  SHIPPING  and  its  subsidiaries  (other  than  the  Group)  (collectively  referred  to  as  “COSCO  SHIPPING 
Group”),  other  government-related  entities  and  their  subsidiaries,  entities  in  which  the  Company  is  able  to  exercise  joint 
control  or  significant  influence,  and  key  management  personnel  of  the  Company  and  COSCO  SHIPPING  as  well  as  their 
close family members.

For  the  purpose  of  related  party  transaction  disclosures,  the  Directors  believe  that  it  is  meaningful  to  disclose  the  related 
party transactions with COSCO SHIPPING Group companies for the interests of financial statements users, although certain 
of  those  transactions  which  are  individually  or  collectively  not  significant  are  exempted  from  disclosure.  The  Directors 
believe  that  the  information  of  related  party  transactions  has  been  adequately  disclosed  in  the  consolidated  financial 
statements.

In  addition  to  the  related  party  information  and  transactions  disclosed  elsewhere  in  the  consolidated  financial  statements, 
the following is a summary of significant related party transactions conducted in the ordinary course of business between the 
Group and COSCO SHIPPING Group during the year.

US$’000

Revenues

Container transport income
Freight forwarding income
Terminal handling and storage income
IT service income
Interest income

Expenses

Cargo transportation costs
Freight forwarding expenses
Terminal charges
Operating lease rental expenses

Vessels
Containers
Land and buildings

Slot hire expenses
Purchase of bunker
Crew expenses

Others

Purchase of containers

Note:

2018

55,419
471
12,139
593
170

25,110
2,695
54,558

10,966
1,473
176
20,999
133,078
569

93,860

2017

–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–

–

These transactions were conducted either (i) based on terms as governed by the master agreements and subsisting agreements entered into between 

the Group and COSCO SHIPPING Group or (ii) based on terms as set out in the underlying agreements, statutory rates or market prices or actual 

costs incurred, or as mutually agreed between the Group and COSCO SHIPPING Group.

173173

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

47.  COMPANY BALANCE SHEET

As at 31st December 2018

US$’000
ASSETS
Non-current asset
Subsidiaries

Current assets
Prepayments
Amounts due from subsidiaries
Restricted bank balances
Cash and bank balances

Total assets

EQUITY
Equity holders
Share capital
Reserves (note)

Total equity

LIABILITIES
Non-current liability
Amount due to a subsidiary

Current liabilities
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to subsidiaries

Total liabilities

Total equity and liabilities

Note:

Movements of reserves

2018

2017

169,487

169,487

149
2,855,975
335
9,297

2,865,756

3,035,243

62,579
996,630

1,059,209

48
2,876,770
345
93

2,877,256

3,046,743

62,579
1,015,718

1,078,297

1,589,229

1,589,229

10,288
376,517

386,805

1,976,034

3,035,243

1,829
377,388

379,217

1,968,446

3,046,743

US$’000

Balance at 31st December 2016
Total comprehensive income for the year
Transactions with owners
2017 interim dividend

Balance at 31st December 2017
Total comprehensive loss for the year

Balance at 31st December 2018

Share
premium

172,457
–

–

172,457
–

172,457

Contributed
surplus

Capital
redemption
reserve

88,547
–

–

88,547
–

88,547

4,696
–

–

4,696
–

4,696

Retained
profit

725,680
37,726

(13,388)

750,018
(19,088)

Total

991,380
37,726

(13,388)

1,015,718
(19,088)

730,930

996,630

Under  the  Companies  Act  of  Bermuda  and  the  Bye-laws  of  the  Company,  the  contributed  surplus  is  also  distributable.  Accordingly,  total 
distributable reserves of the Company amount to US$819.5 million as at 31st December 2018 (2017: US$838.6 million).

48.  APPROVAL OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 22nd March 2019.

174

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018　
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures

as at 31st December 2018

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures

as at 31st December 2018

Name of Company

Subsidiaries

Cargo System Warehouse and 

Transport Ltd.

Consolidated Leasing & 

Terminals, Inc.

Containers No. 1 Inc.

Containers No. 2 Inc.

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

100

100

100

100

3,000 ordinary shares 
HK$300,000

Investment holding and 
container transport

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

1 common stock 
US$100

Investment holding, equipment 
owning and leasing

USA

USA

10,000 ordinary shares 
US$100,000

10,000 ordinary shares 
US$100,000

Equipment owning and leasing Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Equipment owning and leasing Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Dongguan Orient Container Co. Ltd.

100

Registered capital 
HK$29,000,000

Container depot and 
warehousing

China *

China

Far Gain Investment Ltd.

Glory Top Investment Ltd.

Goodrich Limited

100

100

100

Hai Dong Transportation Co. Ltd.

100

Kenwake Ltd.

Laronda Company Ltd.

LBCT LLC

100
100

100

100

Long Beach Container Terminal, Inc.

100

Maritime Delivery Services Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1370A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1371A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1420 Shipping Inc.

100

10,000 ordinary shares 
HK$10,000

10,000 ordinary shares 
HK$10,000

Investment holding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Portfolio investment

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Commodity instruments for 
Group

Marshall Islands

Marshall Islands

100,000 ordinary shares 
HK$100,000

1,600,000 ordinary shares
520,000 5% cumulative 
preference shares 
￡2,120,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Capital of 
US$500,000

5,000 common stock 
US$500,000

1,000 common stock 
US$10,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Container transport

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Investment holding

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

Portfolio investment

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Terminal operating

Maintenance of union office 
workers and provision of 
labour services

USA

USA

Trucking service

USA

USA

USA

USA

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

175
175

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2018

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Newcontainer 1421 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1484 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1564A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1565A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1584A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1585A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1667A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1668A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2002 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2004 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2005 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2007 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2009 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2010 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2011 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2172 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2173 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 4090 Shipping Inc.

100

176

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2018

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Newcontainer No. 5 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 6 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 9 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 10 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 15 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 51 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 52 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 67 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 69 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 73 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 75 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 81 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 82 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 83 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 85 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 87 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 88 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 89 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Ship owning

Liberia †

Worldwide

Ship owning

Liberia †

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

177177

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2018

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Newcontainer No. 90 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 93 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 95 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 96 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 97 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 98 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 99 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 100 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 101 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 102 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 103 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 106 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 107 

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Investment holding

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

OLL Logistics (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

100

10,000 ordinary shares 
RM10,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Malaysia

Malaysia

OOCL (Agencies) Holdings Inc.

100

OOCL (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

OOCL (Assets) Holdings Inc.

100

100

OOCL (Assets USA) Holdings Inc.

100

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

50,000 ordinary shares 
US$50,000

Investment holding

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Transportation

Hong Kong

Asia Pacific

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Investment holding

Liberia †

USA

178

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

OOCL (Australia) Pty Ltd.

OOCL BENELUX

OOCL (Cambodia) Ltd.

OOCL (Canada) Inc.

100

100

100

100

OOCL (China) Investment Ltd.

100

OOCL (Corporate Services) Limited

100

OOCL (Denmark) A/S

OOCL (Europe) Ltd.

OOCL (Finland) Ltd. Oy

OOCL (India) Private Ltd.

100

100

100

100

OOCL (Infotech) Holdings Ltd.

100

OOCL (Italy) S.r.l.

OOCL (Korea) Ltd.

OOCL (Liners) Holdings Ltd.

100

100

100

OOCL (Logistics) Holdings Ltd.

100

OOCL (Mexico), S.A. de CV

OOCL (New Zealand) Ltd.

OOCL Pakistan (Private) Ltd.

100

100

100

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2018

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

200,000 ordinary shares 
A$200,000

226,271 ordinary shares 
€609,799

50,000 ordinary shares 
Riel200,000,000

10,000 common stock 
C$91,000

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

1,000 ordinary shares 
DKK500,000

5,000,000 ordinary shares 
￡5,000,000

150 ordinary shares 
€2,522.82

1,000 equity shares 
Rupees100,000

2 ordinary shares 
US$2

1 quota 
€10,000

16,000 common stock 
Won160,000,000

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

10,000 ordinary shares 
US$10,000

600,000 ordinary shares 
Peso600,000

100 ordinary shares 
NZD1,000

1,350,000 ordinary shares 
PKR13,500,000

Liner agency

Australia

Australia

Liner agency

Belgium

Belgium

Liner agency

Cambodia

Cambodia

Liner agency

Canada

Canada

Investment holding

Hong Kong

China

Provision of corporate services Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Liner agency

Denmark

Northern Europe

Container transport, 
investment holding and liner 
territorial office

United Kingdom

Worldwide

Liner agency

Finland

Finland

Liner agency

India

India

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

Liner agency

Italy

Korea

Italy

Korea

Investment holding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

Mexico

Mexico

Liner agency

New Zealand

New Zealand

Liner agency

Pakistan

Pakistan

179179

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2018

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

OOCL (Philippines) Inc.

OOCL (Poland) Ltd sp. z o.o.

OOCL (Portugal), Lda

OOCL (Russia) Ltd.

OOCL (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

OOCL (Sweden) AB

100

100

100

100

100

100

OOCL (Terminals) Investment Ltd.

100

OOCL (USA) Inc.

OOCL (Vietnam) Co. Ltd.

OOCL China Domestics Ltd.

OOCL GEMİ ACENTELİĞİ 

HİZMETLERİ VE TİCARET  
ANONİM ŞİRKETİ

OOCL LLC

OOCL Logistics Limited

100

100

100

100

100

100

OOCL Logistics (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

100

55,000 common stock 
Peso5,500,000

1,000 ordinary shares 
PLN50,000

2 quotas 
€25,000

1 participatory share 
Rub10,000

100,000 ordinary shares 
S$100,000

100,000 ordinary shares 
SEK100,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$500

1,030 common stock 
US$1,030

Legal capital 
US$500,000

Liner agency

Philippines

Philippines

Liner agency

Poland

Poland

Liner agency

Portugal

Portugal

Liner agency

Russia

Russia

Liner agency

Singapore

Singapore

Liner agency

Sweden

Sweden

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

USA

USA

Liner agency

Vietnam

Vietnam

Registered capital 
RMB21,250,000

Transportation and freight 
agency

China ±

100,000 shares 
TL.100,000

Liner agency

Turkey

China

Turkey

Capital of 
US$500,000

Investment holding and 
equipment owning

USA

USA

10,000 ordinary shares 
US$10,000

200 ordinary shares 
US$20,000

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Hong Kong

Investment holding, 
management of international 
transportation and logistics

Bermuda

Worldwide

OOCL Logistics (Australia) 

100

Pty. Limited

200,000 ordinary shares 
A$200,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Australia

Australia

OOCL Logistics (Cambodia) Ltd.

100

1,250 ordinary shares 
Riel5,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Cambodia

Cambodia

OOCL Logistics (Canada) Ltd.

100

1,000 common stock 
C$1,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Canada

Canada

180

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2018

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

OOCL Logistics (China) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (Europe) Ltd.

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

100

100

Registered capital 
US$4,840,000

2 ordinary shares 
￡2

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

China *

China

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding territorial office

United Kingdom

Europe

OOCL Logistics (Hong Kong) Ltd.

100

50,000 ordinary shares 
HK$500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

OOCL Logistics (India) Private Ltd.

100

35,000 equity shares 
Rupee3,500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

OOCL Logistics (Japan) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (Korea) Ltd.

100

100

6,200 ordinary shares 
Yen10,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

30,000 common stock 
Won300,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Korea

OOCL Logistics Mexico, S.A. de CV

100

500,000 ordinary shares 
Peso500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Mexico

India

Japan

India

Japan

Korea

Mexico

OOCL Logistics Pakistan (Pvt) 

100

Limited

1,300,000 ordinary shares 
PKR13,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Pakistan

Pakistan

OOCL Logistics (Russia) Limited

100

1 share 
Rub10,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Russia

Russia

OOCL Logistics (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

100

2 ordinary shares 
S$2

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Singapore

Singapore

OOCL Logistics (USA) Inc.

100

OOCL Logistics Line Limited

100

OOCL Logistics Warehousing and 

100

Transportation (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.

OOCL Logistics Warehousing and 
Transportation (Tianjin) Co. Ltd.

OOCL Transport & Logistics 

Holdings Ltd. #

100

100

100 common stock 
US$200

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

Registered capital 
US$1,000,000

Registered capital 
US$4,700,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation, 
forwarding and investment 
holding

Transportation and freight 
forwarding

USA

Worldwide

Hong Kong

Worldwide

Warehousing and logistics 
services

China *

Warehousing, transportation 
and logistics services

China *

China

China

169,477,152 ordinary shares 
US$169,477,152

Investment holding

Bermuda

Worldwide

OOCL Warehousing (Shanghai) 

100

Limited

Registered capital 
US$10,000,000

Warehousing and depot 
services

China *

China

OOIL (Investments) Inc. #

Orient Overseas Associates

100

100

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Limited partnership

Property owning

USA

USA

181181

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2018

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Orient Overseas Building Corp.

100

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(China) Co. Ltd.

10 common stock 
US$150,000

Registered capital 
US$3,400,000

Property owning

USA

Liner agency

China *

USA

China

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(Europe) Ltd.

66,000,000 ordinary shares 
￡66,000,000

Investment holding

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

500,000 ordinary shares 
RM500,000

Liner agency

Malaysia

Malaysia

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(Spain), S.L.

3,100 ordinary shares 
€3,100

Liner agency

Spain

Spain

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(UK) Ltd.

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Ship management and vessel 
operator

Cayman Islands

Worldwide

500 ordinary shares 
US$25,000,000

10,000 ordinary shares 
HK$1,000,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

1 ordinary share 
HK$1

40 class A common stock
160 class B common stock
20,000 series A  
non-cumulative  
non-voting preferred stock
18,000 series B  
non-cumulative  
non-voting preferred stock
19,500 series C  
non-cumulative  
non-voting preferred stock
19,000 series D  
non-cumulative  
non-voting preferred stock  
US$76,500,200

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Orient Overseas Container Line Inc.

100

Orient Overseas Container Line Ltd.

100

Soberry Investments Ltd.

The Speed Limited

Union Faith (H.K.) Limited

Wall Street Plaza, Inc.

100

100

100

100
100
100

100

100

100

Wealth Capital Corporation

100

182

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Container transport

Hong Kong

Worldwide

Portfolio investment

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Provision of financing to Group Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Hong Kong

Worldwide

Investment holding

USA

USA

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2018

Name of Company

Associated companies

Ningbo Yuan Dong Terminal Ltd.

Tianjin Port Alliance International 
Container Terminal Co. Ltd.

Joint ventures

OOCL (Egypt) Shipping Agency 

S.A.E.

OOCL (UAE) LLC

Tan Cang – OOCL Logistics 

Company Limited

Qingdao Orient International 

Container Storage & 
Transportation Co. Ltd.

Effective
percentage
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

20

20

49

49

50

55

Registered capital 
RMB2,500,000,000

Registered capital 
US$160,000,000

Terminal operating

China§

Terminal operating

China§

20,000 ordinary shares 
EGP2,000,000

Liner agency

300 ordinary shares 
AED300,000

Liner agency

Egypt

Dubai

China

China

Egypt

Dubai

Legal capital 
US$308,000

Registered capital 
RMB69,900,000

Container depot

Vietnam

Vietnam

Container depot

China §

China

#  Direct subsidiaries of the Company.
†  Companies incorporated in Liberia but redomiciled to the Marshall Islands.
*  Wholly foreign-owned enterprise.
§  Sino-foreign equity joint venture enterprise.
±  Domestic joint venture enterprise.

183183

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
Fleet and Container Information

Fleet and Container Information

Fleet

The following table sets out the Group’s vessels as at 31st December 2018.

VESSEL NAME

OOCL America
OOCL Asia
OOCL Bangkok
OOCL Beijing
OOCL Belgium
OOCL California
OOCL Canada
OOCL Charleston
OOCL Chicago
OOCL Chongqing
OOCL Dalian
OOCL Europe
OOCL Guangzhou
OOCL Jakarta
OOCL Le Havre
OOCL London
OOCL Luxembourg
OOCL Nagoya
OOCL New York
OOCL Norfolk
OOCL San Francisco
OOCL Savannah
OOCL Scandinavia
OOCL Seoul
OOCL Shanghai
OOCL Tokyo
OOCL United Kingdom
OOCL Washington
OOCL Atlanta
OOCL Australia
OOCL Berlin
OOCL Brisbane
OOCL Brussels
OOCL Busan
OOCL Egypt
OOCL France
OOCL Genoa
OOCL Germany
OOCL Hamburg
OOCL Ho Chi Minh City
OOCL Hong Kong

TEU 
CAPACITY

5,344
8,063
13,208
8,888
2,992
5,344
8,888
4,578
5,714
13,208
4,578
8,063
4,578
4,578
4,578
8,063
8,063
4,578
5,770
4,578
5,714
4,578
21,413
8,063
5,770
8,063
21,413
8,063
8,063
4,583
13,208
4,578
13,208
4,578
13,208
13,208
8,888
21,413
8,063
8,888
21,413

OWNERSHIP

Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease

SERVICE IN 
WHICH USED

Intra-Asia
Trans-Atlantic
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe

DATE 
PLACED IN 
SERVICE

1995
2006
2013
2011
1998
1995
2011
2010
2000
2013
2009
2006
2010
2010
2010
2010
2010
2009
1999
2009
2000
2010
2017
2010
1999
2007
2017
2010
2005
2006
2013
2009
2013
2008
2013
2013
2015
2017
2004
2015
2017

FLAG

Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong

184

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fleet and Container Information

VESSEL NAME

OOCL Houston
OOCL Indonesia
OOCL Japan
OOCL Kobe
OOCL Korea
OOCL Malaysia
OOCL Memphis
OOCL Miami
OOCL Montreal
OOCL New Zealand
OOCL Panama
OOCL Poland
OOCL Rotterdam
OOCL Singapore
OOCL Southampton
OOCL Taipei
OOCL Texas
OOCL Utah
OOCL Yokohama
OOCL Zhoushan
Apollon D
Cape Tainaro
Cardiff Trader
Cimbria
Conmar Bay
Cosco Boston
Cosco New York
Cosco Philippines
CSCL Neptune
Green Horizon
Iberian Express
King Crimson
Kyoto Tower
Maersk Sarnia
Molly Schulte
Moonchild
Mount Gough
Navi Baltic
Olivia
OOCL Antwerp
OOCL Dubai
OOCL Italy
OOCL Kaohsiung
OOCL Kuala Lumpur
OOCL Oakland
OOCL Qingdao
OOCL Rauma

TEU 
CAPACITY

4,578
21,413
21,413
4,578
13,208
13,208
8,888
8,888
4,402
4,578
4,578
13,208
8,063
13,208
8,063
8,888
4,578
8,888
4,578
4,583
2,554
11,037
2,526
2,824
1,036
5,089
5,089
8,501
14,074
1,736
1,118
1,710
1,708
8,450
2,345
1,710
1,756
1,421
1,714
5,888
5,888
5,888
5,888
5,888
5,888
8,063
1,421

OWNERSHIP

Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

SERVICE IN 
WHICH USED

Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Asia-Europe
Intra-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe

DATE 
PLACED IN 
SERVICE

FLAG

2007
2018
2017
2007
2014
2013
2013
2013
2003
2009
2008
2013
2004
2014
2007
2015
2008
2015
2007
2006
2008
2016
2003
2002
2012
2007
2007
2010
2012
2013
2008
2007
2007
2005
2018
2008
2016
2009
2013
2006
2006
2007
2006
2007
2007
2004
2009

Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Liberia
Malta
Malta
Liberia
Antigua and Barbuda
Panama
Panama
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Panama
Gibraltar
Marshall Island
United Kingdom
Singapore
Singapore
Liberia
Hong Kong
Portugal
Portugal
Panama
Singapore
Singapore
Singapore
Singapore
Panama
Hong Kong
Netherlands

185
185

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fleet and Container Information

VESSEL NAME

OOCL Vancover
Ornella
Protostar N
Pucon
San Lorenzo
Santa Loukia
ST Blue
ST Green
Teng Yun He
Tzini
Vega Fynen
Vermont Trader
Warnow Chief
TOTAL 101 VESSELS

TEU 
CAPACITY

OWNERSHIP

5,888
1,714
2,741
6,541
1,708
1,704
2,535
2,535
1,702
1,756
1,118
4,992
1,500
701,463

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Container Information

SERVICE IN 
WHICH USED

Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia

DATE 
PLACED IN 
SERVICE

2006
2012
2007
2006
2014
2014
2011
2011
2000
2013
2006
2004
2009

FLAG

Panama
Portugal
Cyprus
Marshall Island
Cyprus
Malta
Liberia
Liberia
China
Malta
Liberia
Malta
Cyprus

The Group owned, purchased on finance lease terms or leased under operating lease agreements 671,006 units (1,132,281 TEU) as 
of 31st December 2018. Approximately 90.5% of the container fleet in TEU capacity was owned or purchased under finance leases 
with the remainder leased under operating lease agreements.

In addition, at 31st December 2018 the Group owned, purchased on finance lease terms or leased under operating lease terms 37 
trailer chassis.

186

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10-Year Financial Summary

10-Year Financial Summary

US$’000

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Consolidated Profit and Loss Data

Revenue

Operating profit/(loss)

Finance costs

Profit/(loss) before taxation

Profit/(loss) for the year from  

continuing operations

Profit/(loss) for the year from  

discontinued operations

Profit/(loss) for the year

4,350,195 

6,033,402 

6,011,836 

6,459,059 

6,231,583 

6,521,589 

5,953,444 

5,297,693 

5,981,676 

6,572,655 

(332,237)

918,807 

174,598 

327,904 

90,314 

329,147 

353,068 

(138,227)

238,155 

262,935 

(35,347)

(29,091)

(26,179)

(32,877)

(41,019)

(54,000)

(63,642)

(79,393)

(97,418)

(143,191)

(361,870)

898,776 

162,457 

310,134 

66,999 

294,583 

307,208 

(199,667)

159,871 

134,068 

(376,104)

869,817 

139,354 

296,317 

47,133 

270,438 

283,851 

(219,221)

147,438 

75,448 

Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders

(402,294)

1,866,780 

(24,501)

1,004,554 

(400,605)

1,874,371 

43,000 

182,354 

181,645 

–

296,317 

295,387 

–

47,133 

47,036 

–

270,438 

270,538 

–

–

(9,782)

32,718 

283,851 

(219,221)

283,851 

(219,221)

137,656 

137,656 

108,166 

108,166 

Per Ordinary Share

Earnings/(loss) (US cents)

from continuing operations

from discontinued operations

Dividends (US cents)

Weighted average number of ordinary shares  

(60.4)

(3.9)

–

137.8

160.5

283.80

22.1

6.9

7.00

47.2

–

11.84

7.5

–

1.88

43.2

–

10.90

45.4

–

11.45

(35.0)

–

–

23.6

(1.6)

2.14

12.1

5.2

7.70

in issue (’000)

625,793 

625,793 

625,793 

625,793 

625,793 

625,793 

625,793 

625,793 

625,793 

625,793 

Consolidated Balance Sheet Data

Property, plant and equipment 

3,798,048 

3,860,367 

4,205,194 

4,664,773 

5,320,251 

5,608,929 

6,020,744 

6,076,673 

6,251,457 

5,880,057 

Liquid assets

Assets held for sale

Liabilities directly associated with  

assets classified as held for sale

(142,406)

1,354,387 

4,132,897 

2,413,132 

2,339,531 

2,411,085 

2,689,754 

2,548,976 

2,186,946 

2,534,463 

2,246,803 

1,268,254 

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

53,047 

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

472,732 

(141,048)

Other net current liabilities

(582,807)

(475,304)

(543,133)

(654,625)

(473,105)

(628,393)

(622,964)

(738,046)

(671,309)

(596,779)

Total assets

Long-term debt

7,330,174 

9,075,183 

7,711,478 

8,231,039 

8,990,218 

9,633,455 

9,731,574 

9,404,590 

10,069,296 

10,053,860 

2,135,967 

2,416,367 

2,233,095 

2,325,777 

3,265,555 

3,595,625 

3,663,100 

3,489,272 

3,930,025 

3,695,834 

Total long and short-term debt

2,568,022 

2,664,122 

2,672,206 

2,881,530 

3,533,865 

3,984,502 

4,101,719 

4,090,737 

4,554,183 

4,197,756 

Net debt/(liquid assets)

Ordinary shareholders’ equity

Other Financial Information

Depreciation

Capital expenditure

Consolidated Financial Ratios/Percentages

Debt to equity ratio

Net debt/(cash) to equity ratio

Return on average ordinary  

shareholders’ equity (%)

Accounts payable as a % of revenue

Accounts receivable as a % of revenue

Net asset value per ordinary share (US$)

Note:

1,213,635 

(1,468,775)

259,074 

541,999 

1,122,780 

1,294,748 

1,552,743 

1,903,791 

2,019,720 

1,950,953 

3,944,684 

5,548,446 

4,233,468 

4,481,815 

4,470,807 

4,634,752 

4,797,510 

4,519,286 

4,682,513 

4,735,130 

207,275 

380,161 

255,010 

345,255 

242,534 

744,603 

235,346 

784,562 

302,884 

999,451 

323,482 

848,769 

315,426 

796,720 

400,351 

478,637 

428,482 

618,690 

385,622 

412,901 

0.65

0.31

(9.7)

13.8

8.7

6.30

0.48

(0.26)

39.3

12.6

7.5

8.87

0.63

0.06

3.7

11.8

7.8

6.76

0.64

0.12

6.8

12.1

8.4

7.16

0.79

0.25

1.1

14.5

8.9

7.14

0.86

0.28

5.9

14.5

8.8

7.41

0.85

0.32

6.0

12.6

8.4

7.67

0.91

0.42

(4.7)

13.1

9.0

7.22

0.97

0.43

3.0

12.4

9.9

7.48

0.89

0.41

2.3

12.8

9.7

7.57

(1)  The accounting policy on HKAS 12 “Income taxes” was changed in 2012 and the figures prior to 2010 have not been restated to reflect this change.

(2)  The accounting policy on HKAS 19 (Amendment) “Employee Benefits” was changed in 2013 and the figures prior to 2011 have not been restated to 

reflect this change.

(3)  The results of discontinued operation prior to 2017 have not been restated or reclassified.

187
187

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Information

Corporate Information

EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

BRANCH REGISTRAR

SOLICITORS

Mr. Xu Lirong (Chairman)
Mr. Huang Xiaowen  
  (Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. Wang Haimin
Mr. Zhang Wei
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew

Computershare Hong Kong Investor 
Services Limited
  Shops 1712-1716, 17th Floor
  Hopewell Centre
  183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai
  Hong Kong

NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

LISTING EXCHANGE

Conyers Dill & Pearman
  Clarendon House
  2 Church Street
  Hamilton HM11
  Bermuda

  and at

  29th Floor, One Exchange Square
  8 Connaught Place
  Central
  Hong Kong

Ince & Co
  Suites 4404-10, 44th Floor
  One Island East
  18 Westlands Road, Taikoo Place
  Hong Kong

Slaughter and May
  47th Floor, Jardine House
  One Connaught Place
  Central
  Hong Kong

AUDITOR

PricewaterhouseCoopers
Certified Public Accountants
  22nd Floor
  Prince’s Building
  Central
  Hong Kong

The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong
Limited
Stock Code: 316

WEBSITE

http://www.ooilgroup.com

MAJOR BANKERS

Australia and New Zealand Banking 
  Group Limited
Bank of America, N.A.
Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited
Bank of Communications Company 
  Limited
China Construction Bank 
  Corporation
Citibank, N.A.
DBS Bank Limited
HSBC Holdings plc
Industrial and Commercial Bank
  of China (Asia) Limited
MUFG Bank, Ltd
National Australia Bank
Oversea-Chinese Banking 
  Corporation Limited
Shanghai Pudong Development Bank 
  Company Limited
Société Générale
Standard Chartered Bank 
(Hong Kong) Limited

Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Limited

Mr. Yan Jun
Ms. Wang Dan
Mr. Ip Sing Chi
Ms. Cui Hongqin

INDEPENDENT NON–
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard
Dr. Chung Shui Ming Timpson
Mr. Yang Liang Yee Philip
Ms. Chen Ying

COMPANY SECRETARY

Ms. Lammy Lee

AUTHORISED 
REPRESENTATIVES

Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Ms. Lammy Lee

PRINCIPAL OFFICE

33rd Floor
Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road, Wanchai
Hong Kong

REGISTERED OFFICE

Clarendon House
2 Church Street
Hamilton HM11
Bermuda

PRINCIPAL REGISTRAR

MUFG Fund Services
(Bermuda) Limited
  The Belvedere Building
  69 Pitts Bay Road
  Pembroke HM08
  Bermuda

188

Orient Overseas (International) LimitedAnnual Report 2018 
 
 
Orient Overseas (International) Limited
(Incorporated in Bermuda with Limited Liability)

33rd Floor Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong   Telephone: (852) 2833 3888
www.ooilgroup.com

Design and Production by: A.Plus Financial Press Limited

This report is printed on paper in accordance with the standards below

Acid Free     Lignin Free     Dioxin Free     Biodegradable     ISO9001     ISO14001

