2013

Annual Report
Orient Overseas (International) Limited

(Incorporated in Bermuda with Limited Liability)

Corporate profile

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (“OOIL”),  a  company  with  total  revenues  in  excess  of  US$6.0  billion,  has 
principal business activities in container transport and logistics services. Listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, 
the OOIL Group has more than 320 offices in 65 countries.

Orient Overseas Container Line and OOCL are trade names for transportation provided separately by Orient Overseas 
Container Line Limited (“OOCLL”) and OOCL (Europe) Limited respectively and both are wholly-owned subsidiaries 
of OOIL. OOCL is one of the world’s largest integrated international transportation, logistics and terminal companies, 
and is an industry leader in the use of information technology and e-commerce to manage the entire cargo transport 
process. OOCL’s modern fleet today includes some of the youngest, largest, fuel efficient, and environmentally friendly 
vessels carrying cargo on hundreds of trade routes around the world providing a vital link in Global Trade.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2013Contents

Significant Events – 2013

  1  Contents
  2  Financial Highlights
  3 
  6  Chairman’s Letter
  10  Operations Review
  14  Major Customers and Suppliers
  16  Corporate Responsibility
  23  Financial Review
  38  Board of Directors
  42 
  43 

Senior Management
Shareholder Section

  43 
  44 

Financial Calendar
Shareholder Information
  46  Corporate Governance Report
  72  Report of the Directors

Index – Financial Information
Independent Auditor’s Report

  79 
  80 
  81  Financial Statements

  81 
  82 
  83 
  85 
  86 
  87 
  88 
  145 

Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Balance Sheet
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and 
  Jointly Controlled Entities

 155  Other Information

Fleet and Container Information

  155 
  158  Terminal Information
  159 
  160  Corporate Information

10-Year Financial Summary

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$M

Consolidated profit and loss
Revenue
Operating profit
Revaluation of Wall Street Plaza
Finance costs
Profit for the year

Consolidated Balance Sheet
Liquid assets
Property, plant and equipment
Total assets
Borrowings
Total liabilities
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

Consolidated Net Cash flow
Operating activities
Investing activities
Financing activities
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 

Key ratios
Operating profit margin
Gross debt to equity
Net debt to equity
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Earnings per ordinary share (US cents)
Net asset value per ordinary share (US dollar)

2013

2012

Increase/
(decrease)
%

6,232
90
(7)
(41)
47

2,411
5,320
8,990
3,534
4,514
4,471

413
(479)
191
125

1%
0.79
0.25
1%
7.5
7.14

6,459
328
1
(33)
296

2,340
4,665
8,231
2,882
3,743
4,482

408
(858) 
138
(312)

5%
0.64
0.12
7%
47.2
7.16

(4%)
(73%)
N/M
24%
(84%)

3%
14%
9%
23%
21%
N/M

1%
(44%)
38%
N/M

(4%)
15%
13%
(6%)
(84%)
N/M

100%

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

-20%

US$M

2,000

1,000

0

-1,000

20%

10%

0%

-10%

US$

10

8

6

4

2

0

-2

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

Profit for the year (L.H.S.)

Operating profit margin (R.H.S.)

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share (L.H.S.)

Return on Average Ordinary Shareholders’ Equity (R.H.S.)

2

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Financial Highlights 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JANUARy  1

FEBRUARy  2

T h e   As i a   Fo u n d at i o n   a n d   O O C L   a n n o u n c e d   t h e 
continuation  of  their  partnership  to  deliver  books  to 
thousands  of  needy  educational  institutions  in  nine 
countries:  Bangladesh,  Burma,  Cambodia,  Indonesia, 
Philippines,  Sri  Lanka,  Thailand,  Vietnam,  and  peninsular 
and eastern Malaysia.

The  naming  of  OOCL’s  newest  8,888  TEU  vessel,  m.v. 
OOCL  Miami  by  Sponsor  Mr.  Samuel  Tsien,  Group  Chief 
Executive  Officer  of  OCBC  Bank  was  held  at  the  quay 
of  Hudong-Zhonghua  Shipbuilding  (Group)  Co.  on  the 
Changxing Island in Shanghai.

OOCL  celebrated  the  naming  of  two  13,208  TEU  mega 
vessels,  m.v.  OOCL  Brussels  by  Sponsor  Mrs.  Hsu  Lai, 
Chao-yin,  wife  of  Mr.  Shiu,  Kuang-Si,  President  of  Mega 
International  Commercial  Bank,  Taiwan,  and  m.v.  NYK 
Helios  by  Sponsor  Mrs.  Nintira  Sophonpanich,  wife  of  Mr. 
Chartsiri  Sophonpanich,  President  of  Bangkok  Bank,  at 
the Samsung Heavy Industries Shipyard on Geoje Island in 
South  Korea.  It  is  the  first  time  the  company  took  delivery 
of newbuilds of this size. 

A  year  after  the  G6  Alliance  was  formed,  creating  one  of 
the  largest  vessel  networks  in  the  Asia-to-Europe  trade 
lane,  the  six  member  lines  have  agreed  to  expand  their 
cooperation  to  the  Asia-to-North  America  East  Coast 
trade.

MARCH  3

Orient Overseas (International) Limited and its subsidiaries 
announced a profit attributable to shareholders for 2012 of 
US$296.4 million, compared to a profit of US$181.6 million 
in 2011.

OOCL  introduced  a  new  service,  the  Southeast  Asia 
Australia  Service  (ASAL),  by  combining  and  restructuring 
two existing consortium networks to provide a competitive 
service network with attractive direct sailing schedules.

The  naming  of  t he  m.v.  O O CL  Berlin   by  Sp ons or 
Mrs.  Sachiko  Sano,  Director  of  yamasa  Co.,  accompanied 
by  Ms.  Makiko  Sano,  Executive  Director  of  yamasa  Co., 
was  held  at  the  Samsung  Heavy  Industries  Shipyard  on 
Geoje  Island  in  South  Korea.  It  is  the  second  13,208  TEU 
mega vessel to join OOCL’s fleet and deployed on the Asia–
Europe Loop 4 service.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

3

12331Significant Events – 2013The  8,888  TEU  vessel,  m.v.  OOCL  Memphis,  named  by 
Sponsor  Mrs.  Isabella  Anna  Schaefer,  wife  of  Dr.  Klaus 
Schaefer,  President  of  Bayer  MaterialScience  China,  at  the 
quay  of  Hudong-Zhonghua  (Group)  Co.  in  Shanghai,  was 
delivered  to  OOCL  for  deployment  in  the  Super  Shuttle 
Express  (SSX)  service,  a  competitive  Trans-Pacific  trade 
lane connecting Asian and North American markets.

As  part  of  OOCL’s  on-going  commitment  to  give  back 
to  the  community  in  which  we  serve,  we  partnered  with 
the  City  of  Long  Beach,  California,  to  help  fund  the 
construction  of  a  local  community  park  and  celebrated  its 
grand opening.

JUNE  6

APRIL  4

OOCL  was  awarded  “Best  Performing  Ship  Management 
Company”  for  the  5th  year  running  by  the  Hong  Kong 
Marine  Department  and  the  Hong  Kong  Shipowners 
Association after being inspected by the Port State Control 
(PSC) for meeting the Tokyo and Paris MOU criteria.

OOCL celebrated the naming of the m.v. OOCL Chongqing 
by  Sponsor  Mr.  He  Guangbei,  Vice  Chairman  and  Chief 
Executive of BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd. and Bank of 
China  (Hong  Kong)  Ltd.,  at  the  Samsung  Heavy  Industries 
Shipyard  on  Geoje  Island,  South  Korea.  The  13,208  TEU 
containership  would  join  the  company’s  fleet  to  serve  the 
Asia-Europe trade lane.

The  naming  of  the  13,208  TEU  containership,  m.v. 
NYK  Hercules  by  Sponsor  Mrs.  Anita  Hung,  wife  of  Mr. 
Benjamin  Hung,  Executive  Director  and  Chief  Executive 
Officer of Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Ltd., was 
held  at  the  Samsung  Heavy  Industries  Shipyard  on  Geoje 
Island in South Korea.

OOCL  was  once  again  accredited  the  certification  on  the 
accuracy  and  transparency  of  our  environmental  data 
disclosure  for  2012  by  using  the  internationally  recognised 
Clean Cargo Working Group verification standard to check 
for  the  carbon  dioxide  and  sulphur  oxides  emissions  of 
OOCL vessels.

MAy  5

JULy  7

OOCL received the Gold Award, under the Sectoral Awards 
category (Transport and Logistics), of the 2012 Hong Kong 
Awards for Environmental Excellence.

The  naming  of  the  sixth  13,208  TEU  containership 
delivered  to  O O CL,  m.v.  NYK  Hermes,  by  Sponsor 
Ms.  Madeleine  Sands,  daughter  of  Mr.  Peter  Sands,  Group 
Chief  Executive  of  Standard  Chartered  Plc.,  was  held  at 
the Samsung Heavy Industries Shipyard on Geoje Island in 
South Korea.

4

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

76645Significant Events – 2013AUGUST  8

Being  at  the  forefront  of  information  technology  the 
MyPodium  Android  app  was  introduced,  allowing  OOCL 
Logistics  customers  to  view,  track,  and  trace  the  progress 
of  orders  and  shipments  anytime,  anywhere  with  their 
smartphone devices.

OOCL  introduced  the  East  Med/Black  Sea  Express  (EMX) 
service,  providing  competitive  transit  times  connecting  Asia 
and  the  East  Mediterranean  and  Black  Sea  with  additional 
coverage  for  Pusan,  Da  Chan  Bay,  Port  Kelang,  and 
Novorossiysk.

SEPTEMBER  9

The  OOCL  Logistics  website  (www.oocllogistics.com)  was 
introduced  with  a  new  look  and  design  to  better  serve  and 
communicate with customers.

The  m.v.  O O CL  Bangkok,  the  seventh  13,208  TEU 
newbuilding  delivered  to  OOCL,  was  named  by  Sponsor 
Mrs. Betty Tung, wife of Mr. Tung Chee Hwa, Vice Chairman 
of  the  National  Committee  of  the  Chinese  People’s  Political 
Consultative  Conference,  People’s  Republic  of  China,  at  the 
Samsung  Heavy  Industries  Shipyard.  The  vessel  joined  the 
company’s fleet serving the Far East and European markets.

OCTOBER  10

OOCL celebrated the naming of the last newbuild of the year, 
the  m.v.  NYK  Hyperion,  at  the  Samsung  Heavy  Industries 
Shipyard  on  Geoje  Island  in  South  Korea  by  Sponsor  Mrs. 

Harriet  Tung,  wife  of  Mr.  C.  C.  Tung,  Chairman  of  Orient 
Overseas  (International)  Limited.  It  was  also  the  eighth 
13,208  TEU  containership  delivered  to  OOCL,  joining  the 
G6 Alliance’s Loop 7 service.

NOVEMBER  11

OOCL  was  accredited  with  a  certification  that  recognises 
the  high  integrity  and  disclosure  of  the  company’s  2012 
environmental  data  by  adopting  Clean  Shipping  Index 
verification  standards  to  check  OOCL  vessels  on  the 
emissions of carbon dioxide, sulphur oxides, nitrogen oxides 
and  particulate  matter,  wastes  handling,  chemicals  usage, 
and wastewater control.

DECEMBER 

Members  of  the  G6  Alliance  announced  plans  to  expand 
their cooperation to the Asia-North America West Coast and 
Trans-Atlantic trade lanes.

OOCL  and  the  Bank  of  China  collaborated  to  successfully 
develop  an  integrated  freight  financing  program  by  using 
CargoSmart’s online platform to provide a more convenient, 
simplified  and  streamlined  IT  solution  to  meet  our 
customer’s needs.

Our  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  (KAOCT)  in  Taiwan 
reached  a  record  throughput  of  1,328,113  TEU,  a  1.81% 
growth from 2012 and marking a record high throughput in 
KAOCT’s history.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

5

8911810Significant Events – 2013“The Group continues to focus on contribution 
enhancement by way of a disciplined approach to 
differentiation and segmentation, and cost efficiency 
through continuous efforts to drive down costs 
without compromising service quality.”

Tung Chee Chen
Chairman and CEO

6

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Chairman’s letterThe year 2013 was seemingly characterised by the 
US  and  Eurozone  economies  turning  the  corner. 
Optimism  for  the  US  recovery  led  to  gains  in  the 
financial  markets  earlier  in  the  year.  In  addition, 
the  belief  that  the  Eurozone  had  reached  bottom, 
the  positive  expectations  of  Abenomics,  and  the 
underlying investor confidence in a moderate-but-
sustainable growth environment in China injected 
a  degree  of  positive  sentiment  into  the  markets. 
By the end of the year, many major equity markets 
reported healthy gains, reflecting investor forward 
optimism.

Looking  back,  the  confidence  in  the  financial 
markets  during  2013  seems  to  have  run  ahead  of 
the physical market. Seaborne trade growth for the 
liner industry was subdued in 2013. Freight levels 
were disappointing, especially during the first half 
of the year. During the second half of the year, both 
physical cargo movement and sentiment improved, 
resulting  in  a  slightly  better  freight  market. 
Although  container  shipping  demand  growth  in 
2013  was  slower  than  earlier  forecasts,  capacity 
supply growth was also slower than forecasts. These 
conditions helped contribute to a mild recovery in 
rates during the second half of the year.

Looking  ahead,  the  industry  will  continue  to  be 
challenged by supply and demand imbalances which 
will exert pressure on freight rates. At the same time, 
the persistently high bunker prices, the anticipation 
of  newbuilding  deliveries,  and  the  emergence  of 
even larger alliances have led the industry to look 
further into cost rationalisation through operational 
management efforts, and additional efficiency gains 
through  building  scale  and  forming  alliances.  I 
expect  these  industry  trends  to  continue  for  the 
foreseeable  future.  The  IMF  forecasts  a  further 
improvement  of  global  GDP  growth  to  3.6%  in 
2014,  from  2.9%  in  2013,  and  anticipates  better 
prospects  for  developed  economies  such  as  the 
US  and  core  Eurozone  economies  together  with  a 
deceleration of growth in emerging markets. These 
developments  may  inject  some  positive  sentiment 
into  the  major  East-West  trades  for  the  industry, 
which  would  hopefully  help  arrest  any  potential 
freight  rate  deterioration  due  to  over  capacity  in 
these trades.

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  and  its 
subsidiaries  (the  “Group”)  was  profitable  for  the 
year, recording a profit attributable to shareholders 
for 2013 of US$47.0 million. Earnings per ordinary 
share in 2013 was US7.5 cents.

In  2012,  the  Group  reported  a  profit  of  US$295.4 
million.  Earnings  per  ordinary  share  in  2012  was 
US47.2 cents.

The Board of Directors recommends the payment 
of  a  final  ordinary  dividend  of  US1.88  cents 
(HK$0.147) per share to shareholders for 2013. This 
represents a total ordinary dividend payout of 25% 
of the profit attributable to shareholders for 2013.

The  liner  shipping  industry  is  intricately  linked 
with  world  trade.  Global  trade  growth,  whether 
by way of economic growth or adjustments in the 
supply chain processes such as outsourcing, is the 
primary driver for liner shipping demand. Looking 
forward,  the  industry  faces  two  challenges.  On 
the  demand  side,  the  likelihood  of  global  trade 
growth  repeating  its  high  growth  performance 
during the last decade is low. In addition, much of 
the  outsourcing  processes  of  the  major  developed 
nations  have  been  completed.  The  result  is  that 
global world trade growth and the multiplier effect 
on  container  demand  will  be  under  pressure. 
Economists forecast that GDP-to-container multiple 
for  the  half  decade  starting  from  2013  may  be 
half  of  that  during  the  2002  –  2007  period.  On 
the  supply  side,  high  bunker  costs  have  led  to 
available technological improvements and the focus 
on  economies  of  scale  of  larger  vessels.  Together 
with  the  immense  capacity  of  the  shipyards,  it  is 
perhaps unavoidable that the industry will and can 
continue to place newbuilding orders in an effort to 
gain  unit  cost  competitiveness.  While  the  average 
age  of scrapping  has become younger, it is typical 
for  the  industry  to  see  enhanced  scrapping  only 
when  the  operating  results  become  unsustainable. 
If  the  situation  remains  unchanged,  the  net  effect 
of  such  supply  and  demand  dynamics  is  that  the 
overcapacity will become a multi-year challenge for 
the industry.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

7

Chairman’s LetterWith the anticipated demand and supply imbalance, 
the  industry  needs  to  be  mindful  of  the  pressure 
that is likely to be exerted on freight rates, look for 
ways to better improve both its cost structures and 
service  quality,  and  further  focus  on  shareholder 
return.  At  the  same  time,  shippers  need  to  be 
aware that it is not in their interest to see sustained 
carrier losses over the long term which could lead 
to declining levels of carrier service.

The  first  half  of  2013  was  characterised  by  weak 
demand.  Major  trades  including  Transpacific, 
Asia  Europe  and  Intra  Asia  recorded  flat  or  low 
single  digit  demand  growth.  Together  with  the 
delivery  of  newbuilding  vessels,  freight  rates  were 
continually  under  pressure.  The  second  half  of 
the year saw continued newbuilding deliveries but 
freight  rates  improved  against  the  backdrop  of 
seasonal demand increases. Overall due to the vessel 
cascading  effect,  freight  rates  in  the  Transpacific 
and  Intra  Asia  trades,  our  two  largest  trades  by 
revenue and volume, were less than ideal. The effect 
of  low  freight  rates,  however,  was  partially  offset 
by a decrease in bunker fuel prices as compared to 
2012.  As  crude  oil  prices  have  continued  to  trend 
downwards through the year, the industry remains 
hopeful that bunker prices will adjust accordingly.

The  Group  continues  to  focus  on  contribution 
enhancement  by  way  of  a  disciplined  approach 
to  differentiation  and  segmentation,  and  cost 
efficiency  through  continuous  efforts  to  drive 
down costs without compromising service quality. 
Given  the  challenging  results  for  first  half  of  the 
year, the Group redoubled its efforts in the second 
half  of  the  year  with  particular  emphasis  on  load 

In addition, we launched further 
cost efficiency initiatives that 
involve dedicated efforts in 
multiple areas with particular focus 
on improved marine/landside 
operations, empty container 
repositioning, as well as further 
vessel operation improvements 
both in terms of technological 
adaptations and better operational 
management.

factor  and  further  cost  rationalisation.  We  have 
seen  improvement  in  the  second  half  of  the  year. 
In  addition,  we  launched  further  cost  efficiency 
initiatives that involve dedicated efforts in multiple 
areas  with  particular  focus  on  improved  marine/
landside operations, empty container repositioning, 
as  well  as  further  vessel  operation  improvements 
both  in  terms  of  technological  adaptations  and 
better  operational  management.  Furthermore,  I 
expect that in 2014, we will see the full-year effect 
of the Mega class newbuildings we received in 2013, 
all of which were developed with the most advanced 
design  and  equipped  with  the  latest  technology. 
Taken as a whole, I believe that we will continue to 
see  a  positive  contribution  of  unit  cost  reduction 
and, given more favourable market conditions, an 
improvement in margin in this coming year.

8

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Chairman’s LetterThe Group is working with the Port of Long Beach 
to  combine  and  upgrade  two  shipping  terminals. 
The Middle Harbor Redevelopment Project, with its 
final phase scheduled for completion in 2019, will be 
the most competitive, efficient and environmentally 
friendly  container  facility  in  North  America.  We 
expect  the  project  to  provide  tangible  benefits  to 
OOCL’s competitiveness going forward.

After a period of consolidation and re-positioning, 
the  Group  continues  to  strengthen  and  grow  its 
logistics  business,  particularly  in  the  areas  of 
international supply chain, import/export services, 
domestic transportation and warehousing services. 
The  footprint  of  this  business  has  grown  to  130 
offices  in  30  countries.  We  expect  the  logistics 
business  will  become  a  meaningful  contributor  to 
the Group over the long term.

The  Group  remains  committed  to  investing 
and  developing  industry-leading  information 
technology.  Our  IT  capability  has  allowed  us  to 
enjoy  a  meaningful  competitive  advantage  both 
by  being  able  to  offer  shipment  transparency  and 
achieve  operational  efficiency.  We  continue  to 
upgrade  our  operating  system  and  data  analytics 
to  enable  better  forward  planning  and  yield 
management.  In  addition,  we  continue  to  build 
service  platforms  and  third-party  products  which 
enable  our  customers  to  better  manage  their  own 
supply  chain  needs.  We  believe  these  efforts  are 
critical  to  enhancing  product  quality,  improving 
our  underlying  business  efficiency,  and  acting  as 
a  catalyst  in  helping  us  to  think  about  how  the 
industry will evolve.

Despite  taper-related  market  reactions  during  the 
second half of the year, debt availability for capital 
expenditure programs remained accessible and cost-
effective. We do not expect this to change in 2014. 
We  remain  focused  and  deliberate  in  our  efforts 
to maintain a sustainable balance sheet that allows 
the  Group  the  ability  to  retain  the  widest  degree 
of  initiative  and  flexibility  as  a  competitive  edge. 
We  remain  committed  to  ensuring  an  appropriate 
balance  between  adequate  liquidity  and  efficient 
capital structure suitable to our industry.

Given the anticipated low growth rate in container 
demand  and  the  resulting  supply  and  demand 
dynamics,  it  is  imperative  that  the  industry  focus 
on  yield  management,  cost  efficiency  and  service 

The Middle Harbor Redevelopment 
Project with the Port of Long Beach 
when completed in 2019 will be 
the most competitive, efficient and 
environmentally friendly container 
facility in North America.

quality.  Alliance  remains  one  of  the  key  elements 
for carriers in terms of cost efficiency optimisation 
and  improved  service  coverage,  and  is  an  integral 
part of the industry. We will continue to work with 
partners to ensure that our partnership and alliance 
products are efficient and competitive.

In 2014, we anticipate that further tonnage growth 
will lead to continued overcapacity. It is forecasted, 
however,  that  the  demand  growth  in  2014  will 
outpace  that  of  2013.  With  the  US  recovery  now 
a  consensus,  Eurozone  recovery  on  more  solid 
ground,  and  the  current  Chinese  and  Japanese 
economic  growth  trajectory,  we  should  expect  a 
healthier  trade  outlook  despite  recent  uncertainty 
in emerging markets. This is especially true on the 
major East-West trades. Indeed, such development 
should mean improved outlook for the Transpacific, 
Asia Europe and Intra Asia trades and more positive 
results for the industry as a whole.

The  Group  continues  to  be  an  industry  leader 
in  terms  of  operational  excellence  and  financial 
robustness. The Group is well placed for the future 
in  its  ability  to  deliver  superior  performance, 
upgrade its assets, and form effective alliances and 
partnerships in its determination to provide the best 
possible  service  quality  at  the  most  cost-efficient 
level possible. The industry has endured a volatile 
period  since  the  global  financial  crisis  in  2008. 
As  the  global  economy  reaches  its  next  stage  of 
development  almost  six  years  after  the  crisis,  the 
Group today is even more focused and financially 
prepared to deliver superior products and services 
to its customers around the world. We look forward 
to  furthering  our  position  as  one  of  the  leading 
carriers in the industry.

C C tung
Chairman
Hong Kong, 7th March 2014

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

9

Chairman’s Letteroperations review

“The Group is well placed for the future in its ability 
to deliver superior performance, upgrade its assets, 
and form effective alliances and partnerships in its 
determination to provide the best possible service 
quality at the most cost-efficient level possible.”

CoNtaiNer traNSport aND loGiStiCS

The capacity overhang in the industry continued to challenge 
the liner business in 2013. Industry newbuilding deliveries in 
2013 reached a record high, with a total tonnage of nearly 1.4 
million TEU. After scrapping of older tonnage totalling around 
440,000 TEU in 2013, overall global capacity supply grew 5.7% 
in the market, against a global cargo demand growth of 4.2%.

The deployment of the largest newbuildings to the Asia-Europe 
trade triggered cascading into the Trans-Pacific trade, which 
in turn further displaced a considerable number of mid-sized 
ships  to  other  trade  lanes.  This  cascading  effect  brought 
considerable excess capacity to the Intra-Asia and Australasia 
trades as well as the Trans-Pacific trade, and added volatility 
to the market.

The influx of newbuildings also impacted productivity at many 
of the busiest terminals and ports around the world, especially 
those facilities that lack adequate investment and resources to 
effectively handle the ultra large containerships. To maintain 
quality customer service and, at the same time, optimise cost 
savings, carriers have been working more closely with terminal 
and port operators to alleviate the impact on customers’ global 
supply chain flow.

While  cost  efficiency  enhancement  is  the  primary  focus 
of  carriers  in  the  prevailing  challenging  markets,  closer 
cooperation with alliance partners is also an important element 
that allows carriers to optimise resources and offer competitive 
services  to  customers.  In  mid-2013,  the  world’s  three  largest 
carriers  by  tonnage,  namely  Maersk,  MSC  and  CMA-CGM, 
announced plans to form the P3 consortium and intend to be 
operational  in  the  second  quarter  of  2014.  The  G6  Alliance, 
in  which  OOCL  is  a  member,  is  already  active  in  the  Asia-
Europe and Trans-Pacific US East Coast Trades. The Alliance 
announced  in  December  2013  to  expand  cooperation  to  the 
Trans-Pacific  US  West  Coast  and  the  Trans-Atlantic  Trades, 
and are in dialogue with relevant regulatory bodies. A possible 
strengthening in the cooperation between Evergreen Line and 
the CKyH consortium had also been reported by the media.

Supported  by  the  rebound  in  the  Trans-Pacific  and  Asia-
Europe  Trade  volumes  in  the  latter  part  of  the  year,  and 
together with a deeper market penetration into the Intra-Asia 
and  Australasia  Trades,  OOCL  total  liftings  in  the  fourth 
quarter increased by 10% when compared to the same quarter 
of the previous year, overcoming the lifting decline during the 
early  parts  of  2013.  Overall,  2013  annual  volume  increased 
1.5%  year-on-year.  Rate  level,  however,  was  highly  volatile 
and  impacted  by  the  surplus  capacity.  Total  revenue  in  2013 
dropped 4.9%.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

11

Operations ReviewooCl liner

Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4

Total

Trade

Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia/Australasia

Total

Growth in 2013
revenue

revenue/teU

teU

(0.3%)
(2.6%)
(0.9%)
10.0%

1.5%

3.6%
(9.8%)
(10.1%)
(1.6%)

(4.9%)

3.9%
(7.3%)
(9.4%)
(10.5%)

(6.3%)

Variance

(3.4%)
(11.4%)
(6.8%)
(2.2%)

(4.9%)

liftiNG (’000 teU)

reVeNUe (US$ million)

2013

1,233
844
395
2,822

5,294

2012

1,253
885
408
2,671

5,217

Variance

(1.6%)
(4.6%)
(3.2%)
5.7%

1.5%

2013

1,921
1,026
615
2,047

5,609

2012

1,989
1,158
660
2,092

5,899

trans-pacific  –  The  Trans-Pacific  Trade  continued  to 
face  challenges  in  2013  as  tonnage  cascaded  into  the  trade 
creating excess supply. Eastbound market rate levels remained 
under  pressure  throughout  the  year  as  supply  and  demand 
continued  to  be  out  of  balance.  Competition  also  remained 
fierce for the US export market, bringing rates further down 
to unsustainable levels.

vessel utilisation. OOCL optimised deployment and expanded 
capacity  in  selected  sectors,  and  continued  to  focus  on  unit 
cost efficiency through consortia arrangements. New tonnage 
impacted the Asia-Australia trade lane and brought instability 
in this market. Supply and demand however, reached a better 
balance toward the latter part of the year and brought revenue 
back to a more sustainable level.

SHip operatioNS

As at 31st December 2013, the OOCL fleet composition was 
as follows:

fleet

No. of Vessels

teU Capacity

Owned/Long Term Chartered
Short Term Chartered
Chartered Out

Operating Capacity

61
40
(7)

94

434,300
138,827
(77,021)

496,106

asia-europe – The rate level in the Asia-Europe westbound 
trade  was  characterised  by  volatility  with  frequent  rate 
reductions  and  subsequent  rate  restoration  programs.  Mega 
size  newbuildings  continued  to  be  deployed  into  the  trade. 
The  G6  Alliance  expects  its  upsizing  program  for  North 
Europe to be completed in the second half of 2014. After the 
G6  Alliance  terminated  the  direct  Asia-Black  Sea  service  in 
August,  OOCL  continued  the  same  direct  coverage  through 
cooperation with ZIM Line. OOCL reduced capacity between 
the  Indian-subcontinent  and  North  Europe  from  April  2013 
due to the termination of a joint service.

trans-atlantic  –  Transatlantic  trade  volume  saw  limited 
growth in both directions in 2013. Capacity growth on both 
Eastbound and Westbound due to cascading put pressure on 
freight  rates,  leading  to  freight  levels  that  were  below  that 
of 2012. Our  volume declined  on the  Europe – US sector as 
capacity was reduced through the continuous suspension of the 
Atlantic Express Shuttle peak season loop and the termination 
of a slot purchase for the US Gulf and Mexico service in the 
second half of 2013. Load factor however, slightly improved.

intra-asia  and  australasia  –  The  Intra-Asia  market  was 
seriously impacted by the combined effects of cascading vessels 
from other long haul trades and the softened demand growth 
in the Asian market. Freight rates, in particular for the Middle 
East  and  India,  were  under  pressure  due  to  unsatisfactory 

12

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Operations Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increase  over  2012.  Tianjin  Port  Alliance  International 
Container Terminal Co., Ltd. and Ningbo yuandong Terminal 
Ltd., where OOCL has a 20% interest each, together recorded 
total  throughput  of  about  4.5  million  TEU,  a  8.7%  increase 
over 2012.

Middle Harbor redevelopment project

OOCL  is  working  closely  with  the  Port  of  Long  Beach 
(“POLB”)  and  the  local  community  on  the  Middle  Harbor 
Redevelopment Project (“MHRP”) in Long Beach, California. 
This  project  combines  two  legacy  shipping  terminals  into 
one  modern  and  technologically  advanced  terminal  with 
upgraded  water  and  wharfs  access  coupled  with  direct  rail 
connections for intermodal cargo movements into US inland 
destinations. The new terminal will be one of the most efficient 
and environment-friendly container cargo-handling facilities 
in North America. 

The project is progressing well, with 50% of the berth in the 
first  phase  of  the  redevelopment  completed,  and  the  first 
six  stacking  yard  cranes  arrived  Long  Beach  shortly  before 
year-end  2013.  Equipment  testing  and  commissioning  will 
commence  in  the  next  few  months,  and  integrated  systems 
testing  is  planned  for  later  in  the  year.  The  first  phase  is 
scheduled to commence operations in 2015.

During  the  year  of  2013,  the  Group  took  delivery  of  two 
‘SX’  Class  8,888  TEU  new  vessels  from  HuDong  Zhonghua 
Shipbuilding  in  China,  and  eight  ‘Mega’  Class  13,208  TEU 
new vessels from Samsung Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. in South 
Korea. The ‘Mega’ Class 13,208 TEU vessels are currently the 
largest containerships operated by the Group.

Four  ‘Mega’  Class  13,208  TEU  vessels  that  were  delivered  in 
2013,  named  ‘NyK  Helios’,  ‘NyK  Hercules’,  ‘NyK  Hermes’ 
and ‘NyK Hyperion’, have all been chartered out to NyK Line 
under  time  charter  arrangements  and  have  joined  the  G6 
Alliance’s Asia-Europe service.

No orders for new buildings were placed in year 2013. There 
are two remaining ‘Mega’ Class 13,208 TEU newbuildings to 
be  delivered  in  the  year  2014,  and  four  SX  Class  8,888  TEU 
newbuildings to be delivered in year 2014 and 2015.

As of the end of 2013, OOCL owned 54 vessels with an average 
age of 5.8 years and an average size of 7,279 TEU.

In  view  of  high  bunker  prices  in  2013,  we  continued  to 
focus  on  bunker  and  cylinder  oil  saving  programs.  These 
programs  included  initiatives  covering  technology,  optimal 
routing,  continuous  optimisation  of  speed,  efficient  use  of 
shaft  generator,  minimum  ballast,  trim  adjustment,  and 
closer  communication  and  coordination  between  shipboard 
and  shoreside  colleagues  regarding  berthing  arrangements, 
terminal productivity, and intermodal connectivity.

environmental protection

We  remain  supportive  of  international  efforts  to  measure 
and control shipboard emissions. In 2013, we maintained an 
average sulphur content of 2.55% in our bunker consumption 
which  compares  favourably  with  the  International  Maritime 
Organization  (IMO)  prescribed  standard  of  3.5%.  All  our 
environment-friendly designed newbuildings from year 2011 
onwards  have  been  built  with  Alternative  Maritime  Power 
system (“AMP”) that allows shore based power alternatives. A 
retrofit program is also underway to allow some of our existing 
vessels shore power connections and reduced emissions.

In  addition  to  regulatory  compliance,  we  have  been 
participating  in  various  voluntary  programs  including  the 
Green Flag Program at the Port of Long Beach, Vessel Speed 
Reduction  Program  at  the  Port  of  Los  Angeles,  and  the  Fair 
Winds  Charter  and  Port  Facilities  &  Light  Dues  Incentive 
Scheme in Hong Kong.

MariNe terMiNalS

During  2013,  OOCL  continue  to  operate  two  container 
terminals:  the  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  in  California 
and  the  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in  Taiwan.  The 
combined  throughput  was  2.041  million  TEU,  about  1% 

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

13

Operations ReviewThe Group continues to strengthen 
and grow its logistics business 
and we expect it to become a 
meaningful contributor to the 
Group over the long term.

The  final  phase  of  the  redevelopment  is  expected  to  be 
completed  in  2019,  and  upon  completion,  the  new  facilities 
will  be  able  to  accommodate  18,000  TEU  vessels,  or  handle 
three  13,000  TEU  vessels  berthed  at  the  same  time.  MHRP 
will allow OOCL to enjoy enhanced competitiveness to North 
America over its forty year term. 

loGiStiCS

Our Logistics business registered a revenue increase in 2013. 
With better cost and productivity management measures, our 
gross  profit  margin  improved.  We  continued  to  develop  the 
logistics  business  on  three  fronts:  international  supply  chain 
management  service,  import/export  services,  and  domestic 
logistics service.

Our international logistics business was greatly enhanced by 
the growth of our ocean transportation services (“OceanPlus”). 
OceanPlus  achieved  around  30%  volume  growth  and  helped 
broaden  our  Full  Container  Load  and  Less  than  Container 
Load service to customers. We expanded our carrier portfolio 
and  service  network  to  offer  customers  one-stop-shop  total 
solutions,  in  addition  to  ocean  transportation  services.  In 
addition, through our vendor management services, we worked 
closely  with  international  supply  chain  customers  to  set  up 
their Asia hubs for more efficient supply chain management 
solutions ranging from sourcing to distribution in the region. 
We expanded our quality control services from raw materials 
to finished goods and enhanced our service offering.

On  domestic  logistics,  we  expanded  our  transportation 
services,  warehouse  facilities  and  offerings,  as  well  as  our 
office  network  to  the  second  and  third  tier  cities  in  China 
and  other  parts  of  Asia.  We  also  extended  our  distribution 
services  to  home  delivery  in  selective  areas.  We  see  positive 
developments in the China market and strong growth potential 
with  existing  and  new  customers,  and  look  to  tap  into  the 
domestic consumption growth in China.

By leveraging on our superior IT capabilities and management 
expertise, our value-add services, including 4PL solutions, have 
been well received by customers who appreciate how we can 
integrate  more  deeply  into  their  supply  chain  operations  to 
enhance productivity and organisational efficiency.

14

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

iNVeStMeNt propertY

Wall  Street  Plaza  has  been  valued  upwards  by  US$5  million 
as  at  30th  June  2013  to  reflect  an  assessed  market  value  of 
US$170 million. Based on an independent valuation as at 31st 
December  2013,  the  assessed  market  value  of  the  property 
remains at US$170 million. After offsetting a total of US$11.9 
million improvement works on the building in 2013, primarily 
arising  from  Hurricane  Sandy  in  October  2012,  the  net  fair 
value loss for 2013 has come to US$6.9 million.

As  at  31st  December  2012,  Wall  Street  Plaza  was  valued  at 
US$165  million  with  a  net  fair  value  gain  of  US$0.5  million 
in 2012.

Major CUStoMerS aND SUpplierS

Approximately  8.0%  and  22.1%  of  the  Group’s  total 
expenditure  on  purchases  of  goods  and  services  for 
the year are attributable to the largest supplier and five 
largest suppliers respectively.

Approximately  1.3%  and  5.7%  of  the  Group’s  total 
reported  revenues  for  the  year  are  attributable  to  the 
largest customer and five largest customers respectively.

The Group has entered into slot sharing arrangements 
with other container shipping companies. The receipts 
and  payments  from  slot  sharing  arrangements  have 
not been included in determining the major customers 
and suppliers since it would be misleading to do so as 
the  receipts  and  payments  are  in  respect  of  sharing 
arrangements for the utilisation of vessel space.

No  director  or  any  of  his  associates  holds  any  equity 
interest in the suppliers or customers included above.

Operations ReviewThe Group remains committed to 
investing and developing industry-
leading information technology not 
only in our core operating system 
but also service platforms and 
third-party products which enable 
our customers to better manage 
their supply chain needs.

iNforMatioN teCHNoloGY

The Group has been in the forefront investing and developing 
industry  information  technology.  This  IT  capability  has 
enabled the Group to have a competitive advantage by bringing 
shipment transparency to customers, and operational efficiency 
to  the  business.  Efforts  continue  in  upgrading  both  the 
operating system and data analytics to enable better forward 
planning  abilities.    The  application  of  this  forward  planning 
capability  will  ensure  better  yield  management  decisions, 
more efficient equipment management, superior transhipment 
handling and service fulfilment. In addition, the development 
and  utilisation  of  vessel  tracking  application  enables  better 
tracking  and  management  of  bunker  consumption  for  both 
our owned fleet as well as our chartered in fleet, an important 
component of our service network.

Finally,  the  Group’s  CargoSmart  subsidiary  continues  to 
develop and offer third party software products that will help 
customers manage a broader aspect of their supply chain. The 
container transportation industry is a multi-modal twenty-four 
hour business involving communication and coordination with 
multiple parties around the world. Information technology will 
remain  a  critical  part  of  this  complex  business  as  it  ensures 
both  product  quality  for  customers  and  business  efficiency 
for the Group.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

15

Operations ReviewCorporate responsibility

“The Group recognises that businesses must take 
responsibility for their industry’s effects on the 
environment.  We actively participate in green 
programs and have received recognition for our 
achievements and quality practices.”

16 Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

The  Group  prides  itself  upon  being  a  responsible  corporate 
citizen and it employs the highest standards of business ethics 
in  all  that  it  does.  Headed  by  a  senior  management  Steering 
Committee  and  a  Global  Security,  Safety  and  Environment 
Care Officer, the Group embraces the core values of Corporate 
Social Responsibility at all levels.

Ballast  Water  Management  program  –  All  container  ships 
discharge ballast water, which can contain organisms that are 
harmful to the environment. We have a policy of exchanging 
ballast  water  only  in  the  open  sea  (200  nautical  miles  away 
from  the  nearest  coastline)  and  aim  to  achieve  zero  ballast 
water exchange when berthed at the port.

The  Group  places  the  utmost  importance  on  environmental 
care  and  community  support.  Despite  the  current  difficult 
economic  environment,  we  must  continue  to  address  the 
long-term threat of climate change. We strive to play our part 
in  tackling  this  global  problem  through  engagement  with 
organisations  such  as  the  Business  Environment  Council, 
the  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  and  the  World  Wildlife 
Fund.  Throughout  the  year,  the  Group  has  won  awards  and 
accolades for its environmental performance, and OOIL Group 
employees  around  the  world  have  been  actively  supporting 
their  local  communities  through  various  environmental 
initiatives.

environmental Care

The Group recognises that businesses must take responsibility 
for their industry’s effects on the environment. Our company 
is  dedicated  to  meeting  the  needs  of  the  present  without 
compromising those of the future. We encourage sustainable 
economic  development  through  innovative  environmental 
care  measures  and  believe  that  by  taking  a  proactive  role  in 
caring for the environment, we can help minimise our carbon 
footprint,  improve  air  quality  and  make  the  world  a  better 
place to live for ourselves and future generations.

We actively participate in green programs and have received 
recognition  for  our  achievements  and  quality  practices, 
including:

the Safety, Quality and environmental (SQe) Management 
System Certificate – OOCL was the first container shipping 
line  in  the  world  to  have  achieved  the  SQE  certification 
which  consolidates  the  ISM-Code,  ISO  9001  and  ISO  14001 
requirements.

Vessel  Speed  reduction  programs  –  Each  year,  OOCL  has 
been fully compliant to reducing vessel speed when entering 
within both 20 and 40 nautical miles of the Port of Long Beach 
and Port of Los Angeles harbors. Our efforts have effectively 
contributed to improving the air quality by reducing emissions 
such as smog forming nitrogen oxides (NOx), diesel particulate 
matter and greenhouse gases. Port officials estimate that if all 
vessels comply with the program, the amount of NOx produced 
by container ships would be reduced by nearly 550 tons a year.

Hong  Kong  awards  for  environmental  excellence  –  Gold 
award – OOCL received the Gold Award, under the Sectoral 
Awards category (Transport and Logistics), of the 2012 Hong 
Kong  Awards  for  Environmental  Excellence  (HKAEE)  on 
2nd May 2013. The HKAEE is recognised by the community 
as  one  of  the  most  prestigious  and  reputable  environmental 
award  schemes  in  Hong  Kong.  It  encourages  businesses  and 
organisations to embrace green management and innovation 
and offering the opportunity to benchmark their environmental 
performance.

In  this  fifth  annual  award,  776  applicants  competed  in  11 
industry sectors. In considering OOCL for the gold standing, 
the  Award  recognises  a  company’s  commitment  and  drive 
to  achieving  environmental  objectives  through  the  entire 
organisation.  This  includes  initiatives  taken  to  sustain 
progressive  environmental  improvements  and  working  with 
partner organisations to establish synergies to adopting greener 
business models and operations.

“Class  of  excellence”  Wastewi$e  label  –  OOCL  received 
environmental  recognition  for  our  participation  and 
performance  in  the  Wastewi$e  Label  Scheme  under  the 
Hong  Kong  Awards  for  Environmental  Excellence  (HKAEE) 
program. Under the Scheme, participants must achieve at least 
nine goals or more, covering at least two of three Wastewi$e 
categories in order to be granted with the “Class of Excellence” 
Wastewi$e Label. The three categories include Waste Avoidance 
& Reduction Measures, Collection and Recycling of Recyclable 
Materials, and Purchase or Manufacture of Recycled Products.

Clean air action program (Caap) – OOCL won the 2013 
San  Pedro  Ports  Clean  Air  Action  Plan  (CAAP)  Award  in 
the  category  of  ‘Air  Quality  Improvement  Leadership  at  the 
Corporate Level’ on 18th July 2013. OOCL was in particular 
recognised for taking a proactive role in minimising the carbon 
footprint in the supply chain as well as efforts in working with 
stakeholders to improve the air quality in the local community.

asian Sustainability leadership awards – OOCL has again 
won  two  awards  at  the  2nd  Asian  Sustainability  Leadership 
Awards  organised  by  the  Asian  Confederation  of  Businesses 
on  24th  September  2013.  Over  2,500  entries  were  received 
from different parts of the world. An independent jury then 
shortlisted  the  entries  and  made  the  final  selection.  OOCL 
won  awards  for  the  “Best  Overall  Sustainable  Performance” 
and “Best Business Eco-efficiency”.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

17

Corporate ResponsibilityHang  Seng  Corporate  Sustainability index  –  The  Group  is 
a founding constituent of, as well as listed in the Hang Seng 
Corporate Sustainability Index since its establishment in 2010. 
Only the top 30 companies are listed in the Index and they are 
recognised to have received the highest scores among all others 
on  aspects  including  environmental  care,  social  impact,  and 
corporate governance. Since the Index’s inception, we remain 
a proud member to have been rated by the RepuTex Annual 
Review  with  an  “AA”  for  our  overall  corporate  sustainability 
performance.

Hong  Kong  Voluntary  observing  Ship  Gold  awards  –  On 
28th May 2013, OOCL was presented with three Hong Kong 
Voluntary  Observing  Ship  (VOS)  Gold  Awards  by  the  Hong 
Kong Observatory (HKO) to recognise our vessel’s important 
contributions to providing marine climatological data needed 
to  help  identify  prevailing  weather  conditions  for  preparing 
forecasts and warnings to the maritime community. In addition 
to the three VOS Gold Awards, both OOCL Long Beach and 
OOCL yokohama  were  presented  with  special  certificates  of 
recognition for being the two Hong Kong-flagged vessels that 
have  successfully  adopted  specialised  equipment  to  improve 
the accuracy, quality and frequency in ship weather reporting. 
As a Hong Kong-based company, taking part in the Hong Kong 
VOS program is a part of OOCL’s commitment to contributing 
back to the community.

Qualship 21 – Offered by the US Coast Guard, this program 
recognises  high-quality  ships  for  their  excellent  safety  and 
antipollution  standards  and  encourages  quality  operations. 
Most  of  OOCL’s  vessels  calling  the  US  have  already  been 
Qualship 21 certified since 2004.

environmental  Data  Verification  –  OOCL  has  once  again 
attained our certification on the integrity and disclosure of our 
2012  environmental  data  by  adopting  Clean  Cargo  Working 
Group (CCWG) and Clean Shipping Index (CSI) verification 
standards,  as  part  of  our  effort  to  meeting  the  needs  of  the 
shipping  community’s  green  objectives  and  our  continued 
commitment  to  a  high  standard  of  our  data  integrity  and 
information management.

OOCL  was  accredited  the  Verification  Certifications  after 
audits conducted by DNV GL, a world leading classification 
society,  by  using  internationally  recognised  and  accepted 
verification  guidelines  to  check  OOCL  vessels  on  a  wide 
variety of scoring parameters, including emissions of carbon 
dioxide, sulphur oxides, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, 
wastes handling, chemicals usage, and wastewater control.

The  Group  is  committed  to  reducing  emissions,  promoting 
environmental care and conserving natural resources. We do 
this in all areas of our business – on land and at sea – from our 
vessels, to our terminals, offices and in our containers.

ooCl  Vessels  –  The  best  way  to  reduce  harmful  emissions 
in the shipping industry is to reduce the consumption of fuel. 
Since  2001,  OOCL  has  implemented  a  fuel  saving  program 
including weather routing systems, slow steaming (addition of 
extra vessels on service loops and travelling at slower speeds), 
minimising ballast water to help achieve a lighter vessel load, 
and achieving better trim of ship draughts by good stowage, 
thereby burning less fuel. By taking these measures, we have 
reduced our CO2 emissions by more than 30% since 2004. In 
addition  to  reducing  our  emissions,  we  are  able  to  help  our 
customers  achieve  a  lower  carbon  footprint  in  their  supply 
chains.

Since  2000,  all  our  vessels  have  been  installed  with 
environment-friendly  NOx-controlled  propulsive  engines 
while advanced slide fuel injection valves are also adopted to 
help reduce NOx emissions by 30%.

In  the  European  Union  (EU),  we  are  fully  compliant  to 
the  SOx  Emissions  Control  Area’s  (SECA)  requirement  of 
using  1.0%  sulphur  content  fuel  as  required  by  the  EU  and 
International Maritime Organization (IMO), and 0.1% sulphur 
content for designated EU ports. OOCL operated vessels also 
consume fuel with sulphur content of 1% or lower in the North 
American  ECA  when  regulation  took  effect  on  1st  August 
2012. In addition, when sailing within 24 nautical miles of the 
California Baseline and at berth, our vessels comply with the 
0.5% (for marine diesel oil) or 1.0% (for marine gasoline oil) 
sulphur content requirements to improve the environment in 
the community.

Moreover, OOCL is one of the leading carriers that voluntarily 
signed  on  to  the  Fair  Winds  Charter  which  encourages  all 
vessels to use fuel of 0.5% sulphur content or less when berthed 
in Hong Kong. This charter, which started on 1st January 2011, 
also urges the Hong Kong SAR Government and government 
authorities in the Pearl River Delta to introduce regulation on 
the use of low sulphur fuel in order to create a level playing 
field for all compliers.

OOCL  vessels  also  ensure  that  the  sulphur  content  of  our 
fuel is well below the IMO prescribed standard of 3.5% when 
sailing in the high seas. In 2013, OOCL achieved an average 
sulphur content of 2.55%.

All of OOCL’s new buildings currently under construction are 
installed  with  Alternative  Maritime  Power  (AMP)  Systems, 
also known as “Cold Ironing”, which allows the vessel to use 
shore supplied electricity instead of burning fuel when at berth.

18 Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Corporate Responsibilityooil  offices  –  Our  focus  is  to  create  and  maintain  a 
“paperless office” environment by eliminating the use of faxes 
and  unnecessary  paper  documents.  As  a  business  which  has 
traditionally relied on paper documentation with customers, 
such  as  bills  of  lading  and  invoices,  we  have  successfully 
taken  innovative  measures  to  effectively  reduce  our  paper 
consumption since 2006.

We have implemented a “reduce, re-use and recycle” campaign 
in  all  our  offices  around  the  world,  encouraging  employees 
to switch off computers after work, powering off copiers and 
lights after use, and to install energy saving office equipment, 
such as energy efficient light bulbs. We also have mandatory 
training  for  all  staff  in  safety,  security  and  environmental 
issues, and organise OOCL Green Week every July in offices 
around the world.

ooCl terminals – OOCL’s container terminal in Long Beach 
(LBCT LLC) uses “Regen” units for rubber-tired gantry (RTG) 
cranes in the Port of Long Beach. The systems, which capture, 
store and supply electrical energy during the crane’s operation, 
can  help  cut  fuel  consumption  by  25%,  and  reduce  diesel 
emissions by more than half.

In  2005,  our  Kaohsiung  Terminal  in  Taiwan  (KAOCT)  had 
converted  its  entire  container  yard  to  a  ‘green’  enterprise 
by  replacing  its  straddle  carriers  operation  with  electric 
rail  mounted  gantry  cranes  (RMGs)  to  improve  energy  and 
operational  efficiencies.  Currently,  there  are  a  total  of  18 
electrically  powered  RMGs  in  the  terminal  on  a  fixed-rail 
system and these gantry cranes are emission-free, quiet, and 
provide  a  much  safer  working  environment  at  the  port.  The 
equipment  not  only  helped  improve  energy  efficiency  but 
also  terminal  efficiency  as  KAOCT’s  shipside  productivity 
was  increased  by  16.6%  from  2005  to  2013.  In  August  2012, 
we  replaced  the  last  two  sets  of  16-row  gantry  cranes  with 
22-row ones to enhance the container handling performance 
by  8%.  Since  then,  this  has  enabled  KAOCT  to  effectively 
handle  more  vessels  at  berth.  The  higher  productivity  level 
helped  shorten  vessel  berthing  time  for  bunker  savings  thus 
reducing emissions. Moreover, KAOCT also minimised the use 
of Side-Pickers and utilise the electric-powered rail mounted 
gantry  cranes  to  handle  empty  containers  at  the  terminal  to 
improve energy efficiency. In 2012, over 200 set of the lighting 
systems in the terminal office were replaced by energy efficient 
LED  technology,  which  achieved  a  59%  saving  of  lighting 
electricity.  When  compared  to  2007,  the  terminal  reduced 
diesel consumption by about 39% last year.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

19

Corporate ResponsibilitySustainable  procurement  policy  –  The  Group  is  dedicated 
to  promoting  sustainable  practices  into  our  supply  chain. 
Our  Corporate  Sustainable  Procurement  Policy  has  been 
implemented in every aspect of our business and at every stage 
of the supply chain.

ooCl  Carbon  Calculator  –  The  OOCL  Carbon  Calculator 
is designed to assist OOCL customers in measuring the CO2 
emissions  in  their  supply  chain.  The  scope  of  the  calculator 
spans across vessels, trucks, feeders, barge and rail with over 
70,000  port  pairs  recorded.  OOCL  spearheaded  the  project 
in  2010,  partnering  with  the  Department  of  Logistics  and 
Maritime Studies of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University. The 
Calculator has been checked and verified for its methodology, 
accuracy and carbon footprint calculations by The American 
Bureau of Shipping (ABS) Consulting.

ooCl  Containers  –  Today,  OOCL  only  uses  CFC-free 
refrigerants  for  all  of  our  refrigerated  (reefer)  containers. 
OOCL’s newest reefer containers have one of the lowest power 
consumption  in  the  industry,  and  we  install  ThermoKing 
“EcoPower”  gensets  for  better  energy  efficiency.  All  our 
containers  have  been  applied  with  tin-free  paint  and  we  are 
starting  to  introduce  the  use  of  eco-friendly  bamboo  floors 
instead of the traditional hardwood ones.

The  Group’s  achievements,  in  many  aspects,  have  already 
greatly  exceeded  legal  requirements  and  general  industry 
standards  in  the  countries  where  it  operates.  However,  as 
a  responsible  and  committed  member  of  the  international 
community,  the  Group  continually  strives  for  further 
improvement in all aspects of its business.

Security

In a world where global cargo security threats always increase 
the complexities of the international trade community, OOCL 
is strongly committed to the security of our operations against 
possible  compromise  and  to  the  maintenance  of  the  highest 
level of compliance in security related areas. From our offices 
to ports, warehouses, shore facilities and onboard our vessels, 
we work with the responsible authorities to ensure that every 
measure  is  in  place  to  maintain  the  highest  commercial  and 
operational security standards possible at all times, while all 
employees are educated and regularly updated through security 
training.

The Group’s Corporate Security Policy and internal guidelines 
comply  with  the  US  Customs-Trade  Partnership  Against 
Terrorism  (C-TPAT)  initiative,  EU  Authorised  Economic 
Operator (AEO) Program, and we actively work with various 
governments  and  authorities  around  the  world  to  counter 
any act that would impinge upon maritime or cargo security. 
Under our policy, we have internal security checks to all of its 
holdings  and  our  security  profile  has  been  validated  by  the 
US Customs and Border Protection agency through physical 
checks  of  the  offices  and  facilities  of  the  Group  including 
terminals, warehouses, depots and vessels.

Our company meets the International Ship and Port Facility 
Security Code (ISPS Code), which ensures that security threats 
are detected and assessed and preventive measures are in place 
on our vessels and at our port facilities. A designated officer 
on each ship and at each port facility reports to the Company 
Security  Officer  who  oversees  the  security  plans,  drills  and 
training.  With  this  in  place,  all  our  vessels  continue  to  have 
an exemplary record containing zero breaches of security and 
totally clean detention records. In addition, to provide world-
class quality and secure information to customers and partners, 
our Global Data Centre has also achieved and maintained ISO 
27001 certification.

OOCL has been certified as a “Partners in Protection” (PIP) 
carrier by the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) Partners 
in  Protection.  It  is  a  voluntary  program  established  by  the 
CBSA  to  enhance  border  security,  combat  organised  crime 
and terrorism, detect and prevent contraband smuggling, and 
increase  awareness  of  issues  to  secure  the  flow  of  legitimate 
goods  and  travelers  across  the  US-Canadian  border.  OOCL 
applies anti-piracy measures before our vessels transit through 
High  Risk  Areas  (HRA).  One  of  the  key  measures  is  to 
maintain  a  24-hour,  360-degree  anti-piracy  visual  and  radar 
watch and to deploy additional watch-keepers at the bridge and 
on deck while transiting the HRA to watch out for suspected 
pirate  vessels.  Physical  measures  are  also  utilised  onboard, 
such as barbed wires, spikes, and night vision binoculars. Close 
communication is always maintained between ships and our 
Fleet Management Department (FMD) office. FMD’s 24-hour 
emergency hotline is always on standby mode in the case of 
any emergency.

20 Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Corporate ResponsibilityCommunity and education

As  a  responsible  corporate  citizen  the  Group  recognises 
that  the  societies  in  which  its  employees  live  and  work 
contribute  greatly  to  the  company’s  overall  success.  Care 
for  these  communities  in  which  it  operates  is  therefore  a 
major corporate focus. The Group concentrates its community 
efforts on charity programs designed to provide well-rounded 
youth  education,  charity  relief  to  the  needy,  and  cultural 
entertainment to the whole community.

OOCL  employees  across  the  world  are  encouraged  to  give 
something back to the communities in which they live through 
charitable  activities  such  as  fundraising  and  volunteering 
by  dedicating  their  time  and  efforts  to  help  others  in  need. 
OOCL  assists  in  transporting  medical  diagnostic  equipment 
and supplies from the US to China to care for those children 
who  need  urgent  treatments.  In  2013,  the  Group  donated 
US$127,000.

In addition to financial donations, the Group also contributes 
in  kind.  We  offer  transportation  and  logistics  support  to 
send  relief  to  the  affected  areas.  Assistance  in  the  form  of 
free  transportation  is  often  given  to  a  number  of  charitable 
projects.  In  terms  of  sponsorship,  our  employees  form 
volunteer  teams  to  support  various  charitable  organisations 
through community service, fundraising and donations. Some 
of  the  areas  where  the  charity  donations  were  made  by  the 
Group and its employees include: social services, orphanages, 
elderly  homes,  schools,  children’s  hospitals,  cancer  research, 
multiple sclerosis, and diabetes research. In keeping with the 
Group’s long tradition in supporting education, the Group, in 
partnership with The Tung Foundation, committed more than 
US$502,616 in 2013 to scholarships through The Tung OOCL 
Scholarship for students and our employees’ children.

employee information

As  a  responsible  corporate  citizen  employing  the  highest 
standards  of  business  ethics  in  all  that  it  does,  the  Group 
understands  that  the  process  begins  with  the  well  treatment 
of  its  employees.  As  a  successful  corporation,  the  Group 
appreciates  that  its  success,  growth  and  performance  are 
attributable  to  the  skills,  dedication  and  teamwork  of  its 
employees.  It  regards  people  as  its  greatest  asset  and  takes 
good care of them.

In  the  spirit  of  mutual  respect,  the  Group  is  an  equal 
opportunity employer with a clearly defined policy, covering 
areas such as treating all employees with fairness and dignity, 
promoting  the  corporate  culture  of  encouraging  open  and 
frank communication throughout the organisation, investing 
in  its  employees  and  caring  for  their  hopes  and  aspirations 
through people development programs and education, as well 
as recognising their efforts and achievements.

People  development  remains  a  cornerstone  of  the  corporate 
culture  and  enables  the  effective  operation  of  the  Group’s 
career development policy through recruitment and internal 
promotion.  The  Group  has  channeled  a  great  deal  of  time 
and  effort  into  its  various  people  development  programs, 
supporting employee career development through job rotation, 
local  and  overseas  job  assignments,  formal  and  informal 
learning and development opportunities and sponsorships for 
performance enhancement.

The  Group  employs  an  innovative  approach  to  employee 
learning and management development. The Group recognises 
that  on  demand  performance  support  to  its  employees  is 
the  key  to  help  them  deliver  what  customers  need.  Through 
the  Group’s  intranet,  called  “InfoNet”,  the  Group  offers  an 
all  new  string  to  its  human  resources  bow,  creating  learner-
centric  platforms  with  interactive  paths  to  training  and  self-
improvement,  as  well  as  opening  up  learning  opportunities 
to  many  more  people  within  the  business.  Introduced  in 
2010,  this  new  intranet  portal  also  allows  speedy  sharing  of 
company news and business updates while giving its employees 
a  platform  to  exchange  views  and  ideas.  In  2011,  the  Group 
had a wide adoption of enterprise level collaboration tools in 
addition  to  conventional  methods  of  communication  such 
as  email.  OOCL  Wiki  and  Tibbr  have  proven  to  be  two  of 
these  very  effective  tools  in  the  sharing  of  information  and 
knowledge  as  well  as  collaboration  amongst  large  groups  of 
colleagues  in  our  offices  around  the  world.  They  have  also 
helped  us  support  accelerated  learning  by  providing  us  with 
the means to leverage resources, ideas and hence solutions.

As  at  31st  December  2013,  the  Group  had  9,210  full-time 
employees.  Their  salary  and  benefit  levels  are  maintained  at 
competitive levels. Employees are rewarded on a performance 
related  basis  within  the  general  policy  and  framework  of 
the  Group’s  salary  and  bonus  schemes  which  are  regularly 
reviewed.  Other  benefits  including  medical  insurance  and 
pension funds are also provided, and social and recreational 
activities are organised around the world.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

21

Corporate ResponsibilityIn  the  interest  of  adhering  to  the  highest  ethical  standards 
on  an  ongoing  basis,  the  Group  has  a  formulated  Code  of 
Conduct  which  serves  as  a  guideline  to  ensure  compliance 
with all local, national and international legal standards and to 
preclude offences under local, national and international laws, 
any  breaches  of  confidentiality,  non-disclosure  requirements 
or intellectual property rights and any conflicts of interest, acts 
of bribery, corruption or political contribution and any other 
areas of deemed misconduct. The Group has set up procedures 
to identify, manage and control risks that may have an impact 
on the business of the Group. Established in 2006, the Group’s 
“Whistle  Blower  Policy”  is  one  of  the  Group’s  formalised 
procedures  through  which  employees  can  anonymously  file 
reports or register concerns and helps govern the reporting and 
thorough  investigation  of  allegations  of  suspected  improper 
activities.

The  Group  is  an  equal  opportunity  employer  with  policies 
not  to  discriminate  against  any  employee  or  applicant  for 
employment  on  the  grounds  of  race,  colour,  religion,  creed, 
age, sex, disability, pregnancy, childbirth and related medical 
condition,  marital  status,  sexual  orientation,  veteran  status 
and  any  other  category  as  guided  by  local  laws  and  legal 
regulations.

22 Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Corporate Responsibilityanalysis of Consolidated profit and loss account

Summary of Group results

US$’000 

2013 

2012 

Change 

operating revenue by activity:
  Container Transport and Logistics
  Other Activities

6,205,342
26,241

6,432,955
26,104

(227,613)
137

Group operating revenue

6,231,583

6,459,059

(227,476)

operating profit by activity:
  Container Transport and Logistics
  Other Activities

Group operating profit
Finance costs
Share of profits of jointly controlled entities and 
  associated companies

Net (loss)/gain in fair value on investment property

profit before taxation
Taxation
Non-controlling interests

57,381
39,856

97,237
(41,019)

17,704

73,922
(6,923)

66,999
(19,866)
(97)

228,829
98,532

327,361
(32,877)

15,107

309,591
543

310,134
(13,817)
(930)

(171,448)
(58,676)

(230,124)
(8,142)

2,597

(235,669)
(7,466)

(243,135)
(6,049)
833

profit attributable to shareholders

47,036

295,387

(248,351)

Favourable/
(unfavourable) 
%

(4%)
1%

(4%)

(75%)
(60%)

(70%)
(25%)

17%

(76%)
N/M

(78%)
(44%)
90%

(84%)

Revenue for 2013 was US$227.5 million lower than that of 2012, representing a decrease of 4%. This was mainly attributable to 
softening freight rates for the core Container Transport and Logistics business. Other revenue, amounting to less than 1% of the 
Group’s revenue for both 2013 and 2012, mainly represented rental income from the Group’s investment property Wall Street 
Plaza in New york.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

23

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Container transport and logistics

Summary of operating results

US$’000 

liftings (teUs)

revenue per teU (US$)

Operating revenue by location:
  Asia/Australia
  North America
  Europe

2013 

2012 

5,293,537

5,217,234

1,060

1,131

4,329,270
967,880
908,192

4,501,763
1,043,213
887,979

Change 

76,303

(71)

(172,493)
(75,333)
20,213

operating revenue

6,205,342

6,432,955

(227,613)

Operating costs by items:
  Cargo costs
  Bunker costs
  Vessel and voyage costs (excluding Bunker)
  Equipment and repositioning costs

(2,816,731)
(1,126,471)
(1,040,042)
(775,548)

(2,756,490)
(1,211,705)
(1,051,646)
(774,549)

(60,241)
85,234
11,604
(999)

operating costs

(5,758,792)

(5,794,390)

35,598

Gross profit
Other operating expenses
Other operating income, net

operating profit

446,550
(410,810)
21,641

638,565
(430,318)
20,582

(192,015)
19,508
1,059

57,381

228,829

(171,448)

Favourable/
(unfavourable) 
%

1%

(6%)

(4%)
(7%)
2%

(4%)

(2%)
7%
1%
N/M

1%

(30%)
5%
5%

(75%)

The Container Transport and Logistics business trades under the “OOCL” name and represents the principal revenue contributor 
to the Group, accounting for over 99% of the Group’s revenue in 2013. Container Transport and Logistics will continue to be the 
core business of the Group in which the majority of the Group’s operating assets will be deployed.

operating revenue of Container transport and logistics

100%

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

14%

16%

70%

14%

16%

70%

2012

2013

Asia/Australia

North America

Europe

The operating results for Container Transport and Logistics also include the operations of Long Beach Container Terminal in 
California USA and Kaohsiung Container Terminal in Taiwan as these facilities are mainly employed by OOCL and its alliance 
members.

24

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
asia/australia

Turnover from the Asia/Australia area decreased from US$4,501.8 million in 2012 to US$4,329.3 million in 2013 as a result of 
the setback in freight rates. Both the North America and Europe bound trades recorded negative variances when compared with 
last year in revenue term while the Australasian trades sustained modest growth.

Overall liftings of the Trans-Pacific eastbound services decreased by 1% while freight rates also softened by 1% when compared 
with last year. The westbound legs of the Asia/Northern Europe services recorded a 12% drop in rates and an 8% drop in volume. 
Intra-Asia sustained a 5% growth in liftings for the year but was offset by a 5% retreat in freight rates. Liftings of the Asia/Australia 
and New Zealand services rose by 9% in 2013 while freight rates dropped by 4% compared with last year.

Overall load factor as a percentage of the capacity available during 2013 was comparable with that of 2012, amid a 3% increase 
in available capacity during the year. Results from this region have always been dependent upon the economic environment and 
consumption patterns of North America and Europe.

Kaohsiung Container Terminal in Taiwan is an integral part of the Container Transport and Logistics business and its terminal 
facilities are mainly employed by OOCL and its alliance members.

North america

Revenue decreased by US$75.3 million for this area in 2013 with softening freight rates and a modest decline in volume. Both 
Asia-bound and Europe-bound cargoes recorded a drop in average freight rates which contributed to the shortfall in revenue 
from the region.

The westbound liftings from the Asia/North America West Coast service and the Asia/US East Coast service via the Panama Canal 
dropped by 3% compared with last year and revenue showed a 7% decrease with a 4% decline in freight rates. The eastbound 
Canada/Northern Europe and US East Coast/Northern Europe services recorded no better performance with a 3% setback in 
volume and an 11% drop in revenue.

Overall volumes softened by 3% during 2013 and the average revenue per TEU on all outbound cargoes from North America 
recorded a 6% decrease as compared with last year. Despite a 1% decrease in capacity during the year, the overall load factor in 
the region was 1 percentage point down from those of 2012.

Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  forms  an  integral  part  of  the  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  business  with  its  terminal 
facilities mainly employed by OOCL and its alliance partners.

europe

Thanks to the expansion of the logistics business, turnover for this area in 2013 achieved a modest growth of US$20.2 million 
amid a competitive liners market. The eastbound leg of the Asia/Northern Europe services, being the largest revenue contributor 
for the Europe area in the past years, showed a 4% drop in 2013 while the westbound trades of the Trans-Atlantic routes also 
recorded a decline. Modest revenue growth was achieved only in the Mediterranean markets.

The  eastbound  leg  of  the  Asia/Northern  Europe  services  saw  a  9%  drop  in  volume  in  2013  which  was  compensated  by  a 
corresponding  5%  improvement  in  freight  rates.  Liftings  for  the  westbound  sectors  of  the  Canada/Northern  Europe  and  US 
East Coast/Northern Europe services were 3% lower than those of 2012 while average revenue per TEU for both services was 
comparable with last year. The eastbound routes of the Mediterranean trades, on the other hand, sustained a 4% growth in volume 
and a 9% increase in revenue during the year.

The overall load factor as a percentage of capacity available for cargo shipments from this region was slightly better than that of 
2012 with a 7% capacity decrease for the Europe area during 2013.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

25

Financial ReviewThe average revenue per TEU on all outbound cargoes from Europe was 2% better than that of 2012, albeit at the expense of a 
5% decrease in overall volume for the region.

revenue per teU by Services

US$

1,900 

1,700 

1,500 

1,300 

1,100 

900 

700 

500 

Q1 2012

Q2 2012

Q3 2012

Q4 2012

Q1 2013

Q2 2013

Q3 2013 Q4 2013

Trans-Pacific

Asia-Europe

Trans-Atlantic

Intra-Asia/Australia

All Trades

operating Costs

The principal operating costs of the container transport business, including cargo costs, vessel costs, voyage costs, equipment and 
repositioning costs, decreased modestly from that of 2012 with the increase in cargo costs more than compensated by savings 
in other cost items.

Cargo costs mainly consist of terminal charges, inland transportation costs, commission and brokerage, cargo assessment and 
freight tax, all of which are largely paid in the local currencies of the areas in which the activities take place. Cargo cost increased 
by 2% compared with that of 2012 which was in line with the growth in liftings.

average Bunker price per ton

US$

800

700

600

500

400

Jan

Feb Mar

Apr May

Jun

Jul

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov Dec

2012

2013

26

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Financial ReviewVoyage costs comprise mainly bunker costs, port charges, canal dues, cargo claims and insurance. Bunker price softened from an 
average of US$664 per ton in 2012 to an average of US$615 per ton in 2013, resulting in a 7% drop in bunker cost for the year.

Vessel costs include the operating costs and depreciation charges relating to the OOCL fleet as well as the net charter hire and slot 
hire expenses incurred in order to maintain the scheduled service levels. With the extra capacity from newbuildings exceeding 
the decrease in chartered-in vessel capacity, the total carrying capacity grew from 452,246 TEU as at 2012 year-end to 496,106 
TEU in 2013, while the total number of vessels, either owned or chartered in and operated by OOCL, dropped from 98 to 94. As 
a result, the total vessel and voyage costs, other than bunker costs, for 2013 were US$11.6 million lower than 2012.

Equipment costs principally represent maintenance and repair costs, rental payments, depot expenses and depreciation charges 
relating to the fleet of containers and chassis equipment, while repositioning costs arise mainly from the relocation of empty 
containers from areas of low activity to high demand regions. The container fleet size increased only modestly from 834,561 
TEU in 2012 to 840,752 TEU in 2013 while total equipment and repositioning costs were maintained at a comparable level with 
that of last year.

2012

13%

18%

21%

48%

Operating costs

2013

13%

18%

20%

49%

Cargo costs

Bunker costs

Vessel and voyage costs
(excluding Bunker)

Equipment and
repositioning costs

other operating expenses

Other operating expenses largely comprise staff costs, office expenses, selling and marketing costs, professional and information 
system expenses. With stringent cost control measures in place, other operating expenses in 2013 were US$19.5 million lower 
than 2012.

other operating income, net

Other operating income, comprising principally exchange arising from foreign currency transactions and profit or loss on the 
disposal of assets, for 2013 was US$1.1 million better than that of 2012 mainly due to gains on asset disposals during the year.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

27

Financial Reviewother activities

Summary of operating results

US$’000 

Rental income
Elimination

operating revenue
Operating costs
Costs incurred by hurricane Sandy

Gross profit
Investment income
Interest income
Distributions from investment in Hui Xian
Others

operating profit

2013 

27,115
(874)

26,241
(13,254)
(974)

12,013
8,929
11,208
10,223
(2,517)

39,856

2012 

26,887
(783)

26,104
(12,328)
(6,707)

7,069
33,785
19,176
43,697
(5,195)

98,532

Favourable/
(unfavourable) 
%

1%
N/M

1%
(8%)
85%

70%
(74%)
(42%)
(77%)
52%

(60%)

Change 

228
(91)

137
(926)
5,733

4,944
(24,856)
(7,968)
(33,474)
2,678

(58,676)

The Group owns an approximately 600,000 sq ft office and commercial property, Wall Street Plaza, located at 88 Pine Street, 
New york, USA, an area popularly referred to as the “Wall Street area”. The building was constructed in 1972 and is operated as 
a multi-tenanted building. Approximately 21,000 sq ft is occupied by Group companies. The Group also invests funds surplus to 
operation in cash and bank deposit and, on a longer term basis, in equity and bond portfolios. The Group also owns 7.9% interest 
in Hui Xian Holdings Ltd which is the largest unit-holder of Hui Xian REIT, the first RMB-denominated REIT in Hong Kong.

Hurricane Sandy swept through the U.S. East Coast in late October 2012 causing extensive damage to the city of New york where 
Wall Street Plaza was located. Various costs were incurred to rebuild and restore the building back to its normal condition and 
the operating results of 2012 and 2013 were affected accordingly.

The operating profit from Other Activities for 2013 was US$58.7 million less than that of 2012 with lower contribution from 
investment activities recorded for the year.

rental income

Rental income from Wall Street Plaza was comparable to that of last year, with the building maintaining an occupancy rate of 
95% as at the end of 2013.

investment income

Compared with a profit of US$33.8 million in 2012, investment activities recorded a profit of US$8.9 million for the year. Interest 
income from bond investments increased in 2013 but was, to a great extent, offset by the fair value loss in the bond portfolio.

US$’000

20,000

15,000

10,000

5,000

0

-5,000

-10,000

investment income By activities

18,071

17,673

15,439

(9,828)

673

686

Interest income
from investments

Fair value and 
disposal gain/(loss)

Dividend income

2012

2013

28

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
interest income

Interest  income  was  US$8.0  million  lower  in  2013  which  was  attributable  to  an  average  lower  balance  available  for  deposits 
compared with 2012.

Distributions from investment in Hui Xian

Hui Xian Holdings Ltd declared a cash distribution in May 2013, of which the Group shared US$7.9 million. The Group also 
received distributions of US$2.3 million from its direct holding of Hui Xian REIT during the year, resulting in a total contribution 
of US$10.2 million from Hui Xian in 2013. In 2012, a distribution in specie of Hui Xian REIT valued at US$34.7 million was 
received from Hui Xian Ltd.

others

Other items include business and administration expenses for property management, exchange differences and other miscellaneous 
items.

finance Costs

The Group incurs interest expenses on bank loans, finance leases and, to a very small extent, bank overdrafts. These borrowings 
are variously secured against vessels, containers, chassis and terminal equipment owned by the Group. Finance costs also include 
fees on lease administration.

Finance costs increased by US$8.1 million as compared with 2012, principally a result of the higher average debt balance for 
the year.

Net (loss)/Gain in fair Value on investment property

As at 31st December 2013, the Group’s investment property, Wall Street Plaza, was valued at US$170 million, up from the US$165 
million valuation at the end of 2012, by an independent valuer. After offsetting a total of US$11.9 million capital improvements 
to  the  building  spent  during  the  year,  the  net  loss  in  fair  value  for  2013  was  therefore  US$6.9  million.  In  2012,  the  property 
recorded a valuation gain of US$5.0 million which was offset against a total of US$4.5 million building improvement to result 
in a net gain in fair value of US$0.5 million.

Share of results of jointly Controlled entities and associated Companies

Share of results of jointly controlled entities and associated companies mainly represents the Group’s investment in a depot joint 
venture in Qingdao and a 20% stake in two terminals located in Tianjin and Ningbo, which commenced operations in 2007. The 
share  of  US$17.7  million  profit  from  jointly  controlled  entities  and  associated  companies  in  2013  was  US$2.6  million  higher 
than 2012.

profit before taxation

Pre-tax profit for the year was US$67.0 million compared with last year’s profit of US$310.1 million. The setback in earnings 
reflected the competitive market conditions of the Container Transport and Logistics business and a lower contribution from 
the investment activities.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

29

Financial Reviewtaxation

US$’000 

Company and subsidiaries:
  North America
  Europe
  China
  Asia and others

Total

2013 

2012 

Change 

Favourable/
(unfavourable) 
%

5,611
2,790
3,400
8,065

923
927
2,543
9,424

19,866

13,817

4,688
1,863
857
(1,359)

6,049

(508%)
(201%)
(34%)
14%

(44%)

The  increase  in  taxation  for  North  America  and  Europe  in  2013  was  mainly  due  to  the  write-back  of  provision  in  2012  not 
recurring this year. Taxation for China also increased in 2013 which was in line with the expansion of business volume over the 
area.

Capital expenditure

US$’000 

2013 

2012 

Change 

Container vessels and capitalised dry-docking costs
Vessels under construction
Containers
Chassis
Vehicles, furniture, computer and other equipment
Computer software
Investment property
Land and buildings

52,344
631,885
182,627
82
108,416
12,174
11,923
–

999,451

34,287
548,055
109,897
54
77,676
9,761
4,457
375

784,562

18,057
83,830
72,730
28
30,740
2,413
7,466
(375)

214,889

Increase/
(decrease) 
%

53%
15%
66%
52%
40%
25%
168%
(100%)

27%

Capital expenditure increased from US$784.6 million in 2012 to US$999.5 million in 2013. Vessels under construction accounted 
for 63% and 70% of the total capital expenditure in 2013 and 2012 respectively. The increase in capital expenditure on other 
equipment  mainly  represented  the  acquisition  of  terminal  equipment  for  the  Middle  Harbor  Redevelopment  Project  in  Long 
Beach, USA.

Vessels

During 2013, the Group took delivery of ten newbuilds, of which eight were 13,208 TEU mega vessels and the remaining two 
were of 8,888 TEU in capacity.

As at the end of 2013, the Group had a total of six newbuilding outstanding orders for two 13,208 TEU vessels from Samsung 
Heavy Industries Co Ltd and four 8,888 TEU vessels from Hudong – Zhonghua Shipyard (Group) Co. Ltd, to be delivered from 
2014 to 2015.

Newbuilding Delivery Schedule

Delivery

Shipyard

Hull No.

teU

Date of order

apr 2014

Samsung Heavy industries

HN2010

13,208

2011

Mar 2014
Apr 2014
Oct 2014
Dec 2014
Feb 2015
Apr 2015

Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries
Hudong-Zhonghua Shipbuilding
Hudong-Zhonghua Shipbuilding
Hudong-Zhonghua Shipbuilding
Hudong-Zhonghua Shipbuilding

HN2010
HN2011
H1565A
H1585A
H1667A
H1668A

13,208
13,208
8,888
8,888
8,888
8,888

2011
2011
2007
2007
2010
2010

30

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
review of Consolidated Balance Sheet

Summary of Consolidated Balance Sheet

US$’000 

Property, plant and equipment
Investment property and prepayments of 

lease premiums

Jointly controlled entities and associated companies
Intangible assets
Liquid assets
Accounts receivable and other assets
Other non-current assets

total aSSetS
Accounts payable and other liabilities
Current taxation

2013 

2012 

5,320,251

4,664,773

179,543
150,701
42,663
2,411,085
854,568
31,407

8,990,218
(916,343)
(5,420)

174,793
119,527
38,916
2,339,531
852,222
41,277

8,231,039
(797,866)
(6,191)

Change 

655,478

4,750
31,174
3,747
71,554
2,346
(9,870)

759,179
(118,477)
771

total aSSetS leSS traDiNG liaBilitieS

8,068,455

7,426,982

641,473

Increase/
(decrease) 
%

14%

3%
26%
10%
3%
N/M
(24%)

9%
15%
(12%)

9%

40%

Long-term borrowings
Short-term borrowings, overdrafts and 
  current portion of long-term borrowings

Total debt
Non-controlling interests and deferred liabilities
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

Capital eMploYeD
Debt to equity ratio
Net debt to equity ratio
Accounts payable as a % of revenue
Accounts receivable as a % of revenue
% return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Net asset value per ordinary share (US$)
Liquid assets per ordinary share (US$)
Share price at 31st December (US$)
Price to book ratio based on share price 
  at 31st December

property, plant and equipment

US$’000 

Vessels
Containers and chassis
Land and buildings
Others

3,265,555

2,325,777

939,778

268,310

555,753

(287,443)

(52%)

652,335
146
(11,008)

641,473

23%
N/M
N/M

9%

3,533,865
63,783
4,470,807

8,068,455
0.79
0.25
14.52
8.90
1.05
7.14
3.85
4.99

2,881,530
63,637
4,481,815

7,426,982
0.64
0.12
12.15
8.42
6.78
7.16
3.74
6.44

0.70

0.89

2013 

2012 

4,050,517
1,008,676
44,611
216,447

3,523,332
963,446
45,850
132,145

5,320,251

4,664,773

Change 

527,185
45,230
(1,239)
84,302

655,478

Increase/
(decrease) 
%

15%
5%
(3%)
64%

14%

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

31

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Container Transport and Logistics remains the core business of the Group and the one in which the majority of property, plant 
and equipment is deployed. The assets largely comprise container vessels, containers and chassis, property, terminal and computer 
equipment and systems. In 2013, the Group placed no new orders for new vessels. As at the end of 2013, the Group had a total 
of 6 outstanding newbuilding orders to be delivered in 2014 to 2015.

The increase in property, plant and equipment in 2013 principally reflects the payments on newbuilding vessels and terminal 
equipment for the Middle Harbor Redevelopment Project.

investment property and prepayments of lease premiums

US$’000 

Investment property
Prepayments of lease premiums

2013 

170,000
9,543

179,543

2012 

Change 

165,000
9,793

174,793

5,000
(250)

4,750

Increase/
(decrease) 
%

3%
(3%)

3%

Investment property represents the Group’s commercial building, Wall Street Plaza, in New york. The building was valued at 
US$170.0 million as at the end of 2013 by an independent valuer (2012: US$165.0 million).

jointly Controlled entities and associated Companies

US$’000 

Jointly controlled entities
Associated companies

2013 

8,674
142,027

150,701

2012 

Change 

7,610
111,917

119,527

1,064
30,110

31,174

Increase/
(decrease) 
%

14%
27%

26%

The investment in jointly controlled entities and associated companies for 2013 comprises the minority holdings in two container 
terminals in Tianjin and Ningbo and the interest in a joint venture for the operation of a container depot and transportation 
business in Qingdao. The increase in the investment in jointly controlled entities and associated companies for 2013 mainly arose 
from the profits shared for the year and further investment in the Ningbo terminal.

intangible assets

US$’000 

Beginning balances
Additions
Amortisation

Closing balances

2013 

38,916
12,174
(8,427)

42,663

2012 

40,014
9,761
(10,859)

38,916

Change 

(1,098)
2,413
2,432

3,747

Increase/
(decrease) 
%

(3%)
25%
(22%)

10%

Intangible assets represent computer software development costs which are amortised over a period of five years.

32

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
liquid assets

US$’000 

2013 

2012 

Change 

Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities
Cash and portfolio funds
Available-for-sale listed equity securities
Held-to-maturity investments

536,097
28,002
1,592,405
9
254,572

472,115
30,708
1,582,744
8
253,956

Total liquid assets

2,411,085

2,339,531

63,982
(2,706)
9,661
1
616

71,554

Increase/
(decrease) 
%

14%
(9%)
1%
13%
N/M

3%

The Group adopts a central treasury system under which a part of the funds surplus to planned requirements are set aside for 
portfolio investments in fixed income bonds or equities managed by in-house managers under guidelines imposed by the Board.

The Group’s investment portfolios are largely invested in US dollar bonds, short-term cash deposits or similar instruments, and 
listed equities. No investments are made in derivative investment products.

Available-for-sale listed equity securities mainly represent listed securities held for medium-term value growth; held-to-maturity 
investments are entirely bonds intended to be held until maturity.

The Group’s total liquid assets at the end of 2012 and 2013 can be further analysed as follows:

US$’000 

Cash (per cash flow statement)
Bank overdrafts

Bank balances and deposits maturing within 
three months from the date of placement
Bank balances and deposits maturing over 
three months from the date of placement

Cash and bank balances (per balance sheet)
Restricted bank balances
Portfolio investments
Available-for-sale listed equity securities
Held-to-maturity investments

2013 

2012 

1,719,902
314

1,597,018
172

Change 

122,884
142

1,720,216

1,597,190

123,026

Increase/
(decrease) 
%

8%
83%

8%

192,130

264,460

(72,330)

(27%)

1,912,346
26,172
217,986
9
254,572

1,861,650
18,490
205,427
8
253,956

50,696
7,682
12,559
1
616

71,554

3%
42%
6%
13%
N/M

3%

Total liquid assets

2,411,085

2,339,531

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

33

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
accounts receivable and other assets

US$’000 

Container Transport and Logistics
Others

2013 

684,891
169,677

854,568

2012 

Change 

675,188
177,034

852,222

9,703
(7,357)

2,346

Increase/
(decrease) 
%

1%
(4%)

N/M

Accounts receivable and other assets for Container Transport and Logistics increased by US$9.7 million, or 1%, to US$684.9 
million at the end of 2013.

ageing analysis of trade receivables

2012

2013

7% 2%

2%6%

91%

92%

Below 1 month

2-3 months

4-6 months

accounts payable and other liabilities

US$’000 

Container Transport and Logistics
Others

2013 

909,223
7,120

916,343

2012 

786,456
11,410

797,866

Change 

122,767
(4,290)

118,477

Increase/
(decrease) 
%

16%
(38%)

15%

Accounts payable and other liabilities at the end of 2013 were US$118.5 million higher than that of 2012, mainly due to increased 
cost provisions as a result of higher throughput in the last quarter of 2013 compared with 2012.

ageing analysis of trade payables

2012

2013

37%

40%

61%

2%

57%

3%

Below 1 month

2-3 months

Over 3 months

34

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
total Debt

US$’000 

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations
Bank overdrafts

2013 

2012 

2,160,728
1,372,823
314

1,604,198
1,277,160
172

Change 

556,530
95,663
142

3,533,865

2,881,530

652,335

Increase/
(decrease) 
%

35%
7%
83%

23%

Total  debt  increased  during  the  year  by  US$652.3  million,  principally  a  result  of  the  financial  obligations  incurred  upon  the 
capital expenditures on newbuildings during the year, offset in part by the scheduled repayments.

Total debt repayment between 2014 and 2018 is US$1,772 million, which is 50% of the total debt of 2013. Details of the repayment 
profile of the Group’s borrowings are set out in Note 37 to the Accounts.

Debt profile

As at the end of 2013, 99% (2012: 99%) of the Group’s total debt was denominated in US dollars which effectively reduced the 
risk of exchange fluctuations.

Of the total US$3,533.9 million debt outstanding at the end of 2013, US$152.0 million was fixed-rate debt and the remaining 
US$3,381.9 million was subject to floating interest rates at various competitive spreads over three-month/six-month LIBOR (or 
equivalent) and related principally to the financing of vessels and container equipment. The Group’s average cost of debt at 31st 
December 2013 was 1.3% (2012: 1.0%).

Net Debt to equity ratio

This ratio changed to 0.25: 1 at end of 2013, from 0.12: 1 at end of 2012 mainly due to new debts relating to newbuilding orders in 
2013. This ratio will be closely monitored in the light of the delivery and financing of new vessels ordered and business forecasts 
over the next three years. It is the Group’s objective to keep this key ratio below a threshold of 1.0.

Net Debt to equity

Ratio

0.40

0.20

0.00

Net Cash

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

Shareholders’ equity

As at 31st December 2013, the Company had 625,793,297 shares in issue, consisting entirely of ordinary shares. With the payment 
of dividends in respect of 2012, offset in part by the profit for the year, the Group’s consolidated shareholders’ equity decreased by 
US$11.0 million to US$4,470.8 million as at the end of 2013 with a net asset value per ordinary share of US$7.14 (2012: US$7.16).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

35

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
operating leases and Commitments

In  addition  to  the  owned  operating  assets,  the  Group  employs  assets  through  operating  lease  arrangements.  The  total  rental 
payments  in  respect  of  these  leases  in  2014  amounted  to  US$238.9  million  as  detailed  in  Note  40(b)  to  the  Accounts  of  this 
report. Assets under operating lease arrangements consist primarily of container boxes, chassis, container vessels and a terminal 
in North America.

As at the end of 2013, the Group had outstanding capital commitments amounting to US$1,055.8 million, principally represented 
by the orders placed for new container vessels to be delivered between 2014 and 2015 and new equipment for the Middle Harbor 
redevelopment project.

analysis of Change in liquid assets

US$’000 

Net inflow from operations

Other inflow:

Interest and investment income

  Sale of property, plant and equipment and 

investments
  New loan drawdown
  Cash from jointly controlled entities and 

  associated companies

  Fair value gain on portfolio investments
  Others

Other outflow:
Interest paid

  Dividends paid to shareholders
  Taxation paid
  Purchase of property, plant and equipment and 

investments
  Loan repayments

Increase in intangible assets

  Acquisition of additional interest in subsidiary
  Fair value loss on portfolio investments
  Others

Net inflow/(outflow)
Beginning liquid asset balances
Changes in exchange rates

Ending liquid asset balances

Represented by:
  Unrestricted bank balances and deposits
  Restricted bank balances
  Portfolio investments
  Available-for-sale listed equity securities
  Held-to-maturity investments

2013 

477,215

47,597

26,839
894,779

11,544
–
48

2012 

460,722

48,959

77,450
627,125

9,905
17,310
1,121

Change 

16,493

(1,362)

(50,611)
267,654

1,639
(17,310)
(1,073)

980,807

781,870

198,937

(38,588)
(44,987)
(25,449)

(593,691)
(658,477)
(12,174)
–
(9,828)
(1,061)

(35,068)
(29,198)
(18,114)

(763,723)
(459,019)
(9,761)
(550)
–
(1,019)

(1,384,255)

(1,316,452)

73,767
2,339,531
(2,213)

(73,860)
2,413,132
259

2,411,085

2,339,531

1,912,346
26,172
217,986
9
254,572

1,861,650
18,490
205,427
8
253,956

2,411,085

2,339,531

(3,520)
(15,789)
(7,335)

170,032
(199,458)
(2,413)
550
(9,828)
(42)

(67,803)

147,627
(73,601)
(2,472)

71,554

50,696
7,682
12,559
1
616

71,554

Favourable/
(unfavourable) 
%

4%

(3%)

(65%)
43%

17%
(100%)
(96%)

25%

(10%)
(54%)
(40%)

22%
(43%)
(25%)
100%
N/M
(4%)

(5%)

N/M
(3%)
N/M

3%

3%
42%
6%
13%
N/M

3%

36

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A net inflow of US$73.8 million was recorded in 2013 compared with a net outflow of US$73.9 million in 2012. Operating inflow 
of US$477.2 million for the year was US$16.5 million better than that of 2012 due to the favourable working capital movements. 
The capital payments and corresponding loan drawdown amounts in 2013 mainly reflected the scheduled stage payments arranged 
for the new ordered vessels. Total liquid asset balances increased to US$2,411.1 million at the end of 2013, against US$2,339.5 
million in 2012.

liquidity

As at 31st December 2013, the Group had total liquid asset balances of US$2,411.1 million compared with debt obligations of 
US$268.3 million repayable in 2014. Total current assets at the end of 2013 amounted to US$2,844.0 million against total current 
liabilities  of  US$1,185.3  million.  The  Group’s  shareholders’  equity  contains  no  loan  capital.  The  Group  prepares  and  updates 
cashflow forecasts for asset acquisitions, project development requirements, as well as working capital needs, from time to time 
with the objective of maintaining a proper balance between a conservative liquidity level and an efficient investment of surplus 
funds.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

37

Financial ReviewtUNG Chee Chen

Mr. TUNG Chee Chen, aged 71, has been appointed as the Chairman, President 
and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since October 1996. Mr. Tung chairs 
the Executive Committee and the Nomination Committee of the Company and is 
a member of the Remuneration Committee of the Company. On 7th August, 2013, 
he became the chairman and a member of the Inside Information Committee 
of the Company. He is also the chairman or a director of various subsidiaries of 
the Company. Mr. Tung graduated from the University of Liverpool, England, 
where he received his Bachelor of Science degree and acquired a Master’s degree 
in Mechanical Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the 
United  States.  Mr.  Tung  is  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  Cathay 
Pacific  Airways  Limited  and  U-Ming  Marine  Transport  Corp.,  both  are  listed 
public companies. He was formerly an Independent Non-Executive Director of 
BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Limited, PetroChina Company Limited, Sing Tao 
News Corporation Limited, Wing Hang Bank, Limited and Zhejiang Expressway 
Co., Ltd., all are companies listed in Hong Kong. Mr. Tung is a member of the 
Hong Kong Logistics Development Council and the Hong Kong-United States 
Business Council. Mr. Tung is the brother of Mr. Tung Chee Hwa who has an 
interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala 
Way Company Inc. (substantial shareholders of the Company); the brother-in-
law of Professor Roger King (a Non-Executive Director of the Company); and the 
uncle of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew (an Executive Director of the Company) 
and  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan  (an  Executive  Director  and  the  Acting  Chief 
Financial Officer of the Company). Mr. Tung is either a director or a director of 
a company which is a corporate director of certain substantial shareholders of the 
Company which have disclosure interests in the Company under the provisions 
of the Securities and Futures Ordinance.

tUNG lieh Cheung andrew

Mr.  TUNG  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew,  aged  49,  has  been  an  Executive  Director  and  a  member  of  the 
Executive Committee of the Company since 2nd November, 2011. On 7th August, 2013, Mr. Tung 
became a member of the Inside Information Committee of the Company. He has been a Director 
and a member of the Executive Committee of Orient Overseas Container Line Limited (“OOCLL”), 
a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, since March 2006, and the Chief Executive Officer and 
Senior Managing Director of OOCLL since 1st July, 2012. Mr. Tung is also a director of Cargosmart 
(Hong Kong) Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company as well as a director of various 
subsidiaries of the Company. Between 1993 and 1998, he has served the Group in various capacities 
including  Director  of  Reefer  Trade  of  OOCLL.  The  last  position  Mr.  Tung  held  in  Hong  Kong 
Dragon Airlines Limited prior to joining OOCLL in 2006 was the Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Tung 
holds a Bachelor degree from Princeton University and a Master of Business Administration from 
Stanford  University  in  the  USA.  He  is  currently  a  member  of  the  Executive  Committee  of  Hong 
Kong Shipowners Association. Mr. Tung was the Vice-Chairman of the International Chamber of 
Commerce Commission for Transport & Logistics. Mr. Tung is the son of Mr. Tung Chee Hwa who 
has an interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala Way Company 
Inc. (substantial shareholders of the Company) and is the brother of Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan (an 
Executive Director and the Acting Chief Financial Officer of the Company). He is the nephew of Mr. 
Tung Chee Chen (the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company) who has an 
interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala Way Company Inc. 
(substantial shareholders of the Company) and Professor Roger King (a Non-Executive Director of 
the Company). Mr. Tung is a director of certain substantial shareholders of the Company which have 
disclosure interests in the Company under the provisions of the Securities and Futures Ordinance.

38

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Board of DirectorstUNG lieh Sing alan

Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan, aged 46, has been an Executive Director of the Company since 1st May, 2005. 
Mr. Tung became the Acting Chief Financial Officer of the Company and a member of the Executive 
Committee and the Compliance Committee of the Company on 1st June, 2013. On 7th August, 2013, 
he was appointed a member of the Inside Information Committee of the Company. Mr. Tung has been 
with the Group in various capacities for twenty years and is a Director of various subsidiaries of the 
Company. Mr. Tung graduated from Princeton University, Politics Department with a Bachelor of Arts 
degree. Mr. Tung is the Chairman of the Hong Kong Shipowners Association and is a member of the 
Hong Kong Economic Development Commission and the Hong Kong Maritime Industry Council and 
the Greater Pearl River Delta Business Council. He is on the Executive Committee of the International 
Association of Dry Cargo Shipowners (Intercargo), the Chairman of the Advisory Committee of Center 
for Transport, Trade and Financial Studies of the City University of Hong Kong and a member of the 
Departmental  Advisory  Committee  of  Department  of  Logistics  and  Maritime  Studies  of  The  Hong 
Kong Polytechnic University. He did not hold directorships in any other public companies listed in 
Hong Kong and overseas in the last three years. Mr. Tung is the son of Mr. Tung Chee Hwa who has 
an  interest  in  a  trust  which  has  an  indirect  interest  in  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  and  Gala  Way  Company 
Inc. (substantial shareholders of the Company) and is the brother of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew 
(an Executive Director of the Company). He is the nephew of Mr. Tung Chee Chen (the Chairman, 
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company) who has an interest in a trust which has an 
indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala Way Company Inc. (substantial shareholders of the 
Company) and Professor Roger King (a Non-Executive Director of the Company).

professor roger KiNG

Professor Roger KING, aged 73, has been a Non-Executive Director of the Company since March 2000 
and was an Executive Director of the Company from 1992. He is a member of the Finance Committee 
of  the  Company  since  4th  March,  2008.  He  was  a  Director  of  Orient  Overseas  (Holdings)  Limited 
(“OOHL”) from 1983 to 1992 and the Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer of OOHL from 
1985 to 1987. Professor King is a graduate of the University of Michigan, BSEE; New york University, 
MSEE;  Harvard  Business  School,  AMP;  and  The  Hong  Kong  University  of  Science  and  Technology 
(“HKUST”), PhD in Finance. He is an Adjunct Professor of Finance, Director of Tanoto Center for 
Asian Family Business and Entrepreneurship Studies and Director of Thompson Center for Business 
Case Studies at HKUST. He also worked in computer research and management consultancy at Bell 
Telephone Laboratories. Professor King is a member of the Supervisory Board of TNT Express N.V. 
(listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange) and the Honorary Consul of the Republic of Latvia in Hong 
Kong.  Professor  King  was  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  Sincere  Watch  (Hong  Kong) 
Limited  (listed  on  the  Hong  Kong  Stock  Exchange)  and  Arrow  Electronics,  Inc.  (listed  on  the  New 
york  Stock  Exchange),  a  member  of  the  Supervisory  Board  of  TNT  N.V.  (listed  on  the  Amsterdam 
Stock Exchange), Chairman and founder of System-Pro Computers Limited, one of the largest personal 
computer reseller in Hong Kong, Chairman of Pacific Coffee Limited and a member of the Standing 
Committee  of  Zhejiang  Province  People’s  Political  Consultative  Conference.  Professor  King  is  the 
brother-in-law  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa  who  has  an  interest  in  a  trust  which  has  an  indirect  interest 
in  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  and  Gala  Way  Company  Inc.  (substantial  shareholders  of  the  Company),  and 
Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  (the  Chairman,  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the  Company)  who 
has an interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala Way Company 
Inc. (substantial shareholders of the Company) and the uncle of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew (an 
Executive  Director  of  the  Company)  and  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan  (an  Executive  Director  and  the 
Acting Chief Financial Officer of the Company).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

39

Board of DirectorsCHoW philip Yiu Wah

Mr.  CHOW  Philip  yiu  Wah,  aged  66,  is  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  since  the  re-
designation from an Executive Director of the Company on 1st July, 2012. He is also a consultant of 
the Company since 1st July, 2012 with the term of his consultancy contract extended from 1st January, 
2014 up to 30th June, 2014. He is a member of the Finance Committee and the Share Committee of 
the Company. Mr. Chow was an Executive Director of the Company from 1st December, 2003 to 30th 
June, 2012. Mr. Chow holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemistry and Physics from the University 
of Hong Kong and a Master of Business Administration degree from the Chinese University of Hong 
Kong. He did not hold directorships in any other public companies listed in Hong Kong and overseas 
in the last three years.

Simon MUrraY

Mr. Simon MURRAy, CBE, aged 73, has been an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company 
since 1992 and was a Non-Executive Director of Orient Overseas (Holdings) Limited from 1989 until 
1992. He serves as a member on the Audit Committee of the Company. He is the Chairman of General 
Enterprise Management Services International Limited (GEMS), a private equity fund management 
company.  He  is  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  Cheung  Kong  (Holdings)  Limited  and 
Wing Tai Properties Limited (formerly known as USI Holdings Limited), a Non-Executive Director of 
Greenheart Group Limited and IRC Limited, all are companies listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong 
Kong Limited. On 20th November, 2013, Mr. Murray was appointed an Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Spring Asset Management Limited, manager of Spring Real Estate Investment Trust which 
was  listed  on  The  Stock  Exchange  of  Hong  Kong  Limited  on  5th  December,  2013.  He  is  the  Vice 
Chairman and an Independent Non-Executive Director of Essar Energy Plc and the Chairman and an 
Independent Non-Executive Director of Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd., both companies are listed in the 
United Kingdom and a Non-Executive Director of Compagnie Financière Richemont SA, a company 
listed in Switzerland. He was formerly an Independent Non-Executive Director of Hutchison Whampoa 
Limited, Arnhold Holdings Limited (renamed to Summit Ascent Holdings Limited after his resignation 
on  24th  March,  2011)  and  a  Non-Executive  Chairman  of  Glencore  International  Plc  (renamed  to 
Glencore Xstrata Plc), all are companies listed in Hong Kong; an Independent Director of Sino-Forest 
Corporation,  previously  listed  in  Canada  and  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  Vodafone  Group  Plc,  a 
company listed in the United Kingdom. Mr. Murray is a member of the Former Directors Committee 
of  The  Community  Chest  of  Hong  Kong  and  has  been  involved  in  a  number  of  other  charitable 
organisations, including Save The Children Fund and The China Coast Community Association.

CHaNG tsann rong ernest

Mr.  CHANG  Tsann  Rong  Ernest,  aged  74,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the 
Company since 30th December, 2008. He is the chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member 
of the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Share Committee 
of the Company. Mr. Chang was an Executive Director of the Company from 23rd December, 1988, a 
member of the Executive Committee from 30th October, 1996 and the Vice Chairman of the Company 
from 1st December, 2003, all until 30th June, 2006. He was a Non-Executive Director of the Company 
from  1st  July,  2006  until  29th  December,  2008.  He  is  a  Certified  Public  Accountant  in  Taiwan  and 
holds a Master of Business Administration degree from Indiana State University, USA. He did not hold 
directorships in any other public companies listed in Hong Kong and overseas in the last three years.

40

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Board of Directorsprofessor WoNG Yue Chim richard

Professor  WONG  yue  Chim  Richard,  aged  61,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director 
of the Company since December 2003. He is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member 
of  the  Nomination  Committee  and  the  Remuneration  Committee  of  the  Company.  He  graduated 
from  University  of  Chicago  with  Bachelor’s,  Master’s  and  Ph.D.  degrees  in  Economics  and  is  Chair 
of Economics at The University of Hong Kong. He has been active in advancing economic research 
on policy issues in Hong Kong and China. He was awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star in 1999 by the 
Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  for  his  contributions  in  education, 
housing, industry and technology development. He was appointed Justice of the Peace in July 2000. 
Professor Wong is currently an Independent Non-Executive Director of four other listed companies 
in Hong Kong, namely CK Life Sciences Int’l., (Holdings) Inc., Great Eagle Holdings Limited, Pacific 
Century Premium Developments Limited and Sun Hung Kai Properties Limited. He is an Independent 
Non-Executive  Director  of  The  Link  Management  Limited,  the  manager  of  The  Link  Real  Estate 
Investment  Trust,  a  Hong  Kong  listed  company.  He  is  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of 
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (Asia) Limited, a company previously listed on The Stock 
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited until withdrawal of its listing on 21st December, 2010.

CHeNG Wai Sun edward

Mr.  CHENG  Wai  Sun  Edward,  aged  58,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the 
Company since 19th March, 2009. He serves as a member on the Audit Committee of the Company. 
Mr.  Cheng  graduated  from  Cornell  University  with  a  Bachelor’s  degree  in  Political  Science  and 
Economics, and Oxford University with a Bachelor’s degree in Jurisprudence and a Master’s degree. 
He was qualified as a solicitor in England and Wales as well as in Hong Kong. He is a Justice of the 
Peace and has been awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star by the Government of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region. Mr. Cheng is an Executive Director, Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman 
of Wing Tai Properties Limited and an Independent Non-Executive Director of Television Broadcasts 
Limited,  both  listed  on  The  Stock  Exchange  of  Hong  Kong  Limited.  Mr.  Cheng  has  many  years  of 
public  service  experience  in  urban  renewal,  housing,  finance,  corruption  prevention,  technology 
and education. He is the Chairman of the University Grants Committee, a member of the board of 
The Airport Authority Hong Kong and a member of the Commission on Strategic Development of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Government. Mr. Cheng was the former Chairman of 
the Urban Renewal Authority and former member of the Advisory Committee on Corruption of the 
Independent Commission Against Corruption. He has also previously served on the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region Government’s Steering Committee on Innovation & Technology, the Council of 
the Hong Kong Institute of Education, the Council of the City University of Hong Kong, the Council of 
the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, the Executive Committee of the Hong Kong Housing Society, 
the Council of the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Futures 
Commission’s Takeovers and Mergers Panel and the Takeovers Appeal Committee, and was a part-time 
member of the Central Policy Unit.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

41

Board of Directors  Michael Kwok

  allan Wong

  erxin Yao

Mr.  Kwok,  aged  59,  has  been  the  Chief 
Operating  Officer  of  OOCL  since  July  2012, 
a  Director  of  OOCL  since  August  2010  and 
Head of Regions Management since September 
2013.  He  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Business 
Administration  from  Chinese  University  of 
Hong  Kong.  Mr.  Kwok  joined  the  Group  in 
1978  and  has  served  the  Group  in  various 
capacities  for  35  years,  including  serving  as 
Director  of  Intra  Asia  Trade,  Head  of  Fleet 
Management  and  Corporate  Logistics  and 
Director of Trades.

Mr.  Wong,  aged  60,  had  been  the  Chief 
Executive Officer of OOCL Logistics since June 
2004,  was  concurrently  heading  Corporate 
Sales Department of OOCL until 1st January 
2013, appointed as OOCL Director in October 
2000 and as Managing Director in November 
2009  until  he  retired  on  1st  July  2013.  Mr. 
Wong holds a Bachelor of Social Science and 
a Master of Business Administration from the 
Chinese University of Hong Kong. He joined 
the  Group  in  1976  and  served  the  Group  in 
various capacities for 37 years.

Mr.  yao,  aged  56,  has  been  a  Director  of  OOCL 
since  January  2010  and  a  Director  of  Corporate 
Planning  and  Corporation  Administration  since 
January  2013.  He  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Arts  from 
Toronto/Fudan  University  joint  program  and  a 
Master  of  International  Affairs  from  Columbia 
University. Mr. yao joined the Group in 1993 and 
has served the Group in various capacities for 20 
years, including serving as Executive Vice-President 
and Head of Corporate Services of OOCL Logistics 
in  Hong  Kong,  Managing  Director  of  Orient 
Overseas  Container  Line  (China)  Co.,  Ltd.  and 
OOCL Logistics (China) Limited based in Shanghai 
and President of OOCL (USA) Inc.

  Steve Siu

  Stephen Ng

  lammy lee

Mr.  Siu,  aged  56,  has  been  the  Chief 
Information Officer and a Director of OOCL 
since  November  2006  and  Chief  Executive 
Officer  of  CargoSmart  since  January  2002. 
He holds a Bachelor of Science and a Master 
of  Science  from  University  of  Essex,  UK  and 
a  Master  of  Business  Administration  jointly 
organised  by  Northwestern  University  and 
The  Hong  Kong  University  of  Science  and 
Technology. Mr. Siu joined the Group in 1987 
and has served the Group in various capacities 
for 26 years.

Mr.  Ng,  aged  55,  has  been  the  Director  of 
Trades since July 2012, Director of Corporate 
Planning  until  June  2012  and  a  Director  of 
OOCL since August 2010. He holds a Bachelor 
of  Social  Sciences  from  University  of  Hong 
Kong and a Master of Business Administration 
from  Chinese  University  of  Hong  Kong.  Mr. 
Ng  joined  the  Group  in  1987  and  has  served 
the  Group  in  various  capacities  for  26  years. 
Before being transferred back to Hong Kong in 
2010, he worked in California for seven years 
as Head of Trans-Pacific Trade.

Ms.  Lee,  aged  52,  has  been  the  Company 
Secretary  and  Group  Legal  Advisor  of  OOIL 
since February 1997 and Compliance Officer 
of  OOIL  since  June  2004.  She  was  appointed 
a  Director  of  OOCL  and  a  member  of  the 
OOCL  Executive  Committee  since  1st  April 
2011. Ms. Lee holds a Bachelor of Laws from 
Queen  Mary  College,  University  of  London, 
a  Barrister  and  member  of  Lincoln’s  Inn  and 
admitted  as  an  advocate  and  solicitor  of  the 
High  Court  of  Malaya.  Ms.  Lee  joined  the 
Group  in  1988  and  has  served  the  Group  in 
various capacities for 25 years.

42

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Senior ManagementAnnouncement of results for the half year ended 30th June 2013

7th August 2013

Despatch of 2013 Interim Report to shareholders

Announcement of results for the year ended 31st December 2013

Despatch of 2013 Annual Report to shareholders

Closure of the Register of Members 
(to ascertain the shareholders eligible to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting)

2013 Annual General Meeting

Closure of the Register of Members 
(to ascertain the shareholders eligible to the proposed final dividend)

4th September 2013

10th March 2014

2nd April 2014

17th April 2014 to
 25th  April 2014
 (Both days inclusive)

25th April 2014

5th May 2014 to
 8th May 2014
 (Both days inclusive)

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

43

Financial Calendar 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
orDiNarY SHareS

Issued shares
Nominal value per share

aNNUal report

625,793,297 shares (as at 31st December, 2013)
US$0.10

This annual report is available in both English and Chinese.

Shareholders can obtain copies by writing to:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited
17M Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong

If you are not a shareholder, please write to:
Orient Overseas (International) Limited
33rd Floor, Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road
Wanchai, Hong Kong
Attn: Company Secretary

This annual report is also available at our website at http://www.ooilgroup.com.

SHareHolDer SerViCeS

Any matters relating to your shareholding, including transfer of shares, change of name or address, and loss of share 
certificates should be addressed in writing to:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited
17M Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong
Telephone: (852) 2862 8555  Facsimile: (852) 2865 0990

SHareHolDer eNQUirieS

Any matters relating to shareholders’ rights should be addressed in writing to:

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
33rd Floor, Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road
Wanchai, Hong Kong
Attn: Company Secretary

Our enquiry hotline is operational during normal office hours:
Telephone: (852) 2833 3888  Facsimile: (852) 2531 8147

44

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Shareholder InformationOrdinary shareholder information as at 31st December, 2013:

Category

Corporate
Individual

Number of shares held

1 – 10,000
10,001 – 100,000
100,001 – 1,000,000
1,000,001 or above

Shareholders

Shares of US$0.10 each

Number

percentage

Number

percentage

25
998

2.4438%
97.5562%

619,739,361
6,053,936

99.0326%
0.9674%

1,023

100.00%

625,793,297

100.00%

Shareholders

Shares of US$0.10 each

Number

percentage

Number

percentage

945
69
5
4

92.3754%
6.7449%
0.4887%
0.3910%

1,374,709
2,093,615
1,517,513
620,807,460

0.2197%
0.3345%
0.2425%
99.2033%

1,023

100.00%

625,793,297

100.00%

teN larGeSt orDiNarY SHareHolDerS

At 31st December, 2013, the interests of the ten largest ordinary shareholders of the Company, as recorded in the 
Company’s principal register and Hong Kong branch register of members, were as follows:

Name of ordinary shareholder

Fortune Crest Inc.
HKSCC Nominees Limited
Gala Way Company Inc.
Mok Kwun Cheung
Chang Tsann Rong Ernest
So Tung Lam
Tam Wing Fan
Tai Wing Kee
Ho Fuk Chuen
Leung Man Kit Albo

Number of ordinary
 shares held

percentage

350,722,656
189,620,261
79,227,432
1,237,111
612,731
500,000
157,322
127,900
119,560
100,000

56.04%
30.30%
12.66%
0.20%
0.10%
0.08%
0.03%
0.02%
0.02%
0.02%

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

45

Shareholder Information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate GoVerNaNCe CoDe

The Board of Directors (the “Board”) and management of the Company are committed to maintaining high standards 
of  corporate  governance  and  the  Company  considers  that  effective  corporate  governance  makes  an  important 
contribution to corporate success and to the enhancement of shareholder value.

The Company has adopted its own corporate governance code (the “CG Code”), which in addition to applying the 
principles  as  set  out  in  the  Corporate  Governance  Code  and  Corporate  Governance  Report  (the  “SEHK  Code”) 
contained in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong 
Limited  (the  “Listing  Rules”),  also  incorporates  and  conforms  to  local  and  international  best  practices.  The  CG 
Code sets out the corporate governance principles applied by the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) and is 
constantly reviewed to ensure transparency, accountability and independence.

Throughout the year 2013, the Company complied with the SEHK Code, save for the following:

•  Code provision

Code provision

Deviation

Considered reason for deviation

Separation of the roles 
of chairman and chief 
executive officer of a listed 
issuer.

Mr. TUNG Chee Chen currently 
assumes the role of both Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer of the 
Company.

The executive members of the Board currently 
consist of chief executive officer of the principal 
division of the Group and there is an effective 
separation of the roles between the chief executive of 
its principal division and the Chief Executive Officer 
of the Company. The Board considers that further 
separation of the roles of the Chief Executive Officer 
and Chairman would represent duplication and is 
not necessary for the time being.

•  recommended Best practices

• 
• 

the remuneration of senior management is disclosed in bands
operational results are announced and published quarterly instead of financial results

46

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We have set out in this report our guiding principles and rationale for implementation of the CG Code as well as the 
status of the Company’s compliance with Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules during the year 2013:

a.  BoarD of DireCtorS

1.  Board Composition

The  Board  currently  comprises  of  three  Executive  Directors,  two  Non-Executive  Directors  and  four 
Independent Non-Executive Directors.

executive Directors

Mr. TUNG Chee Chen (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan* (Acting Chief Financial Officer)
* appointed as the Acting Chief Financial Officer on 1st June, 2013

Non-executive Directors

Professor Roger KING
Mr. CHOW Philip yiu Wah

independent Non-executive Directors

Mr. Simon MURRAy
Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest
Professor WONG yue Chim Richard
Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward

The biographical details of the Directors and the relevant relationships between them are set out on the 
Company’s website at http://www.ooilgroup.com and on pages 38 to 41 of this annual report.

The  Directors  have  formal  letters  of  appointment  setting  out  the  key  terms  and  conditions  of  their 
appointment,  and  are  for  a  fixed  term  of  three  years  and  subject  to  re-election  by  rotation  at  least  once 
every three years. Mr. CHOW Philip yiu Wah has a consultancy contract with the Company which will 
expire on 30th June, 2014.

The  Directors  have  extensive  corporate  and  strategic  planning  experience  and  industry  knowledge.  All 
Independent Non-Executive Directors are financially independent from the Group bringing independent 
and diversified experience, competencies, skills and judgment to the Group’s strategy and policies through 
their informed contributions. The Board considers that there is a reasonable balance between Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors and has provided adequate checks and balances for safeguarding the interests 
of the shareholders and the Group.

The Company has received from each Independent Non-Executive Director a written annual confirmation 
of their independence and considers that all the Independent Non-Executive Directors have satisfied their 
independence to the Group up to the date of this annual report.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

47

Corporate Governance ReportDuring the year 2013, the Board has complied with the Listing Rules’ requirement in having at least three 
Independent  Non-Executive  Directors  representing  at  least  one-third  of  the  Board,  including  one  with 
appropriate professional qualifications or accounting or related financial management expertise.

Among the members of the Board, Professor Roger KING (Non-Executive Director of the Company) is the 
brother-in-law of Mr. TUNG Chee Chen (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company), 
and both Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew (Executive Director of the Company) and Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing 
Alan (Executive Director and Acting Chief Financial Officer of the Company) are the nephews of both Mr. 
TUNG Chee Chen and Professor Roger KING.

Directors’ and officers’ liabilities insurance

Since 1990, the Company has arranged insurance cover for directors’ and officers’ liabilities including cover 
for Directors, officers and senior management of the Group arising out of corporate activities.

2.  Board and Management responsibilities

The  Board  is  responsible  for  the  overall  strategic  direction  and  management  of  the  business  and  affairs 
of  the  Group  with  the  objective  of  enhancing  shareholder  value  and  presenting  a  balanced,  clear  and 
understandable assessment of the Company’s performance, position and prospects in the annual and interim 
reports, and announcements and other financial disclosures as required under the Listing Rules, and reports 
to regulators any information required to be disclosed pursuant to statutory requirements.

The Board has a fiduciary duty and statutory responsibility towards the Company and the Group. Other 
responsibilities include formulation of the Group’s overall strategy and policies, setting of corporate and 
management targets and key operational initiatives, setting of policies on risk management pursuant to the 
Group’s strategic objectives, monitoring and control of operational and financial performance, and approval 
of budgets and major capital expenditures, major investments, material acquisitions and disposals of assets, 
corporate or financial restructuring, significant operational financial and management matters.

The  Board  delegates  day-to-day  management  of  the  business  of  the  Group  to  the  management  of  the 
principal division under the leadership and supervision of the Chief Executive Officer, who will implement 
and  report  to  the  Board  on  adoption  of  the  Company’s  strategy,  policies  and  objectives  by  the  principal 
division of the Group.

The  Board  also  delegates  certain  specific  responsibilities  to  eight  committees  (Executive  Committee, 
Audit  Committee,  Remuneration  Committee,  Nomination  Committee,  Compliance  Committee,  Finance 
Committee, Share Committee and Inside Information Committee (established on 7th August, 2013)). The 
composition and functions of each committee are described below. These committees have specific functions 
and authority to examine issues and report to the Board with their recommendations (if appropriate). The 
final decision rests with the Board, unless otherwise provided for in the terms of reference of the relevant 
committees.

The Company Secretary provides the Directors with updates on developments regarding the Listing Rules 
and other applicable regulatory requirements. Any Director may request the Company Secretary to organise 
independent professional advice at the expense of the Company to assist the Directors to effectively discharge 
their duties to the Company. No such independent professional advice was requested by any Director in 
2013.

48

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Corporate Governance Report3.  Chairman and Chief executive officer

Mr. TUNG Chee Chen is the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company with the respective 
roles set out in writing.

a.  The primary role of the Chairman is to provide leadership to the Board and to ensure that the Board 

functions effectively in the discharge of its responsibilities. His duties include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

ensure that Directors are briefed and have received timely, accurate, complete and clear information 
on issues to be discussed at Board meetings;

ensure  that  the  Board  works  effectively  and  performs  its  responsibilities,  and  that  all  key  and 
appropriate issues were discussed in a timely manner and that good corporate governance practices 
and procedures are established, implemented and maintained;

approve  the  agenda  drawn  up  by  the  Company  Secretary  for  each  Board  meeting  taking  into 
account any matters proposed by other Directors for inclusion in the agenda;

promote  a  culture  of  openness  and  debate  by  facilitating  the  effective  contribution  of  Non-
Executive Directors (including Independent Non-Executive Directors) in particular and ensuring 
constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors; and encourage Directors 
with  different  views  to  voice  their  concerns,  allow  sufficient  time  for  discussion  of  issues  and 
ensure that Board decisions fairly reflect Board consensus;

at least annually to hold meetings with the Non-Executive Directors (including Independent Non-
Executive Directors) without the presence of the other Executive Directors;

ensure effective communication with shareholders and that their views are communicated to the 
Board; and to

attend  the  annual  general  meetings  and  invite  the  chairmen  of  the  Audit  Committee,  the 
Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and the other Board committees, or in the 
absence of the chairman of the respective Board committees, other members of the related Board 
committees to be available to answer questions at the annual general meetings.

In case of an equality of votes at any Board meetings, the Chairman shall be entitled to a second or 
casting vote.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

49

Corporate Governance Reportb.  The primary role of the Chief Executive Officer is to be responsible for the day-to-day management 

and operation of the Company and Group business. His duties include to:

– 

provide leadership and supervise the effective management of the principal division of the Group;

–  monitor and control the operational and financial performance of the principal division of the 

Group;

– 

– 

– 

implement  and  report  to  the  Board  on  the  adoption  of  the  Company’s  strategy,  policies  and 
objectives by the principal division of the Group;

provide information to the Board (as necessary) to enable the Board to monitor the performance 
of management and operation of the principal division of the Group; and to

set  up  programmes  for  management  development  and  succession  planning  for  the  principal 
division of the Group.

4.  Board Meetings

Regular Board meetings are scheduled one year in advance to maximise the attendance of Directors. The 
Board meets at least four times each year and has a formal schedule of matters referred to it for consideration 
and decision. Additional meetings may be convened as and when necessary. Notice of at least fourteen days is 
served for regular Board meetings and reasonable notice is given for all other Board meetings. Directors are 
consulted and provided with an opportunity to include matters into the agenda for discussion at the Board 
meetings. The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in preparing the agenda for each Board meeting 
and to ensure that applicable rules and regulations regarding the meetings are observed. The final agenda 
together with the Board papers are distributed to the Directors at least three days before the Board meetings.

If a Director (who may also be a substantial shareholder of the Company) has a conflict of interest in any 
matter to be considered by the Board, the Company Secretary shall ensure that such matter is dealt with 
by a physical Board meeting rather than a written resolution. If considered appropriate, the Board meeting 
shall be attended by Independent Non-Executive Directors who have no material interest in the matter. The 
affected Director shall abstain from voting on any such resolution in which they or any of their associates 
have a material interest and shall not be counted in the quorum present at that Board meeting.

The Company Secretary shall ensure that the procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed. 
Copies of all signed minutes of the Board are sent to the Directors for their record.

50

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Corporate Governance Report5.  professional Development

In addition to Directors’ attendance at meetings and review of papers and circulars sent by the Company, 
the Directors have participated in continuous professional development programme to develop and refresh 
their knowledge and skills to help ensure that their contribution to the Board remains informed and relevant.

The programme for continuous professional development of Directors takes various forms including:

• 

the Company briefing Directors on important issues which have material impact on the Company’s 
business, financial and operational matters including major investments, corporate governance practices 
and funding strategy;

•  Directors meeting senior management of the Group on issues specific to the Group’s business;

•  Directors  reading  materials  and  updates  on  the  regulatory  changes  followed  by  briefings  by  the 

Company Secretary of the Company, if requested; and

•  Directors attending external seminars on business, financial, governance, regulatory and other issues 

relevant to the Group’s activities.

Below is record of participation in continuous professional development programme by the current Directors 
of the Company in year 2013 relevant to the directors’ duties and responsibilities, regulatory updates and 
business, financial and operational matters of the Group.

executive Directors
Mr. TUNG Chee Chen
Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan

Non-executive Directors
Professor Roger KING
Mr. CHOW Philip yiu Wah

independent Non-executive Directors
Mr. Simon MURRAy
Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest
Professor WONG yue Chim Richard
Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward

reading materials

attending external 
seminars/briefings

attending in-
house briefings/
meeting with senior 
management

3
3
3

3
3

3
3
3
3

3

3

3

3
3
3

3
3

3
3
3
3

6.  Supply of and access to information

All Directors have access to Board’s and Committees’ papers and other materials either from the Company 
Secretary or the Chairman so that they are able to make informed decisions on matters placed before them.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

51

Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  Nomination of Directors

The  Nomination  Committee  was  established  in  2012.  The  Committee  reviews  the  structure,  size  and 
composition  (including  the  skills,  knowledge,  experience  and  from  diversity  perspective)  of  the  Board 
regularly  and  makes  recommendation  to  the  Board.  The  Company  follows  a  formal,  considered  and 
transparent  procedure  for  the  appointment  of  new  Directors  to  the  Board.  The  appointment  of  a  new 
Director is a collective decision of the Board, taking into consideration the expertise, experience, integrity 
and commitment of that appointee to the principal division, the Company and the Group.

Each Director shall, after his appointment and semi-annually thereafter, disclose to the Board the number 
and  nature  of  offices  held  by  such  Director  in  other  public  companies  and  organisations  and  any  other 
significant  commitments,  together  with  the  identity  of  the  public  companies  and  organisations  and  an 
indication of time involved.

At the annual general meeting of the Company held on 26th April, 2013 (the “2012 AGM”), Mr. TUNG 
Chee  Chen,  Mr.  TUNG  Lieh  Sing  Alan,  Professor  Roger  KING  and  Professor  Wong  yue  Chim  Richard 
retired and were re-elected as Directors of the Company.

8.  Board Committees

In  addition  to  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee  and  the  Nomination  Committee 
established in compliance with the Listing Rules, the other committees comprise of the Executive Committee, 
the  Finance  Committee,  the  Share  Committee,  the  Compliance  Committee  and  the  Inside  Information 
Committee (established on 7th August, 2013). Each committee has its own well defined scope of duties and 
terms of reference. The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the 
Nomination Committee are available on the Company’s website and the HKExnews website. The Company 
Secretary shall also make available the terms of reference of all the committees to any shareholder upon 
receipt of a written request from such shareholder. The members of a committee are empowered to make 
decisions on matters within the terms of reference of such committee. Copies of all signed minutes of the 
committees are sent to the members of the respective committees and the Directors of the Company for 
their record.

a.  executive Committee

The Executive Committee was established in 1996. All its members are Executive Directors. It currently 
comprises of Mr. TUNG Chee Chen (chairman of the Executive Committee), Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung 
Andrew and Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan (elected as a member of the Executive Committee on 1st June, 
2013), with Ms. Lammy LEE as the secretary of the Executive Committee.

The Executive Committee operates as an executive management committee under the direct authority 
of the Board. Its primary duties include to:

– 

formulate  strategies  and  policies  and  to  set  corporate  and  management  targets  and  operational 
initiatives and policies on risk management for the principal division of the Group and plans and 
operational directions for the Group;

52

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Corporate Governance Report–  monitor, control and manage operational and financial performance and business affairs of the 

principal division of the Group;

– 

review,  discuss  and  approve  (if  appropriate)  (i)  press  announcements,  circulars  and  other 
documents  (including  inside  information  and  financial  information)  required  to  be  disclosed 
pursuant  to  the  Listing  Rules,  regulatory  or  statutory  requirements;  (ii)  submissions  from  the 
Compliance Committee, the Finance Committee and the Share Committee and, if appropriate, to 
recommend to the Board for consideration and approval;

– 

approve capital expenditure for a specified amount;

– 

liaise  and  consult  with,  advise  and  make  recommendations  to  its  subsidiaries  and  make  such 
decisions with regard thereto as the Executive Committee shall in its absolute discretion think fit, 
and refer such matters as it thinks fit to the Board of the Company for consideration, approval 
and/or ratification, if necessary; and to

– 

report to the Board on its decisions, and any matters in respect of which it considers that action 
is needed, and its recommendations as to the steps to be taken.

b.  audit Committee

The  Audit  Committee  was  established  in  1992.  All  its  members  are  Independent  Non-Executive 
Directors.  It  currently  comprises  of  Professor  WONG  yue  Chim  Richard  (chairman  of  the  Audit 
Committee), Mr. Simon MURRAy, Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest and Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward, 
with Mr. FUNG yee Chung Vincent, the Head of Internal Audit as the secretary and Ms. Lammy LEE 
as the assistant secretary.

The  Audit  Committee  is  delegated  by  the  Board  with  the  responsibility  to  provide  an  independent 
review and supervision of financial reporting and to ensure the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
controls  and  the  adequacy  of  the  external  and  internal  audits.  To  perform  its  duties,  the  Audit 
Committee is provided with sufficient resources and is supported by the Internal Audit Department 
to  examine  all  matters  relating  to  the  Group’s  adopted  accounting  principles  and  practices  and  to 
review all material financial, operational and compliance controls. The terms of reference of the Audit 
Committee are posted on the Company’s website.

The primary duties of the Audit Committee include to:

– 

recommend to the Board on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditor, 
and  to  approve  the  remuneration  and  terms  of  engagement  of  the  external  auditor,  and  any 
questions of its resignation or dismissal;

– 

act as the key representative body overseeing the Company’s relations with the external auditor;

– 

seek from the external auditor, on an annual basis, information about policies and processes for 
maintaining  independence  and  monitoring  compliance  with  relevant  requirements,  including 
provision of non-audit services and requirements regarding rotation of audit partners and staff;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

53

Corporate Governance Report– 

– 

– 

– 

discuss  with  the  external  auditor  any  recommendation  arising  from  the  audit,  and  to  review 
the  external  auditor’s  management  letter,  any  material  queries  raised  by  the  external  auditor  to 
management about accounting records, financial accounts or systems of control and management’s 
response,  and  to  ensure  that  the  Board  will  provide  timely  response  to  the  issues  raised  in  the 
external auditor’s management letter;

establish and review from time to time the procedure to review and monitor the external auditor’s 
independence  and  objectivity,  and  the  effectiveness  of  the  audit  process  and  the  scope  of  the 
external auditor, and to discuss and understand the factors considered by the external auditor in 
determining the scope of the audit and reporting obligations before the audit commences;

establish  and  review  from  time  to  time  the  policy  relating  to  hiring  of  employees  or  former 
employees of the external auditors and monitor the application of such policy; and to consider 
whether  as  a  result  of  such  hiring  there  has  been  any  impairment  of  the  auditor’s  judgment  or 
independence in respect of the audit;

establish and review from time to time the policy on engaging external auditors to supply non-
audit services and to review such services do not impair the external auditor’s independence or 
objectivity  in  relation  to  non-audit  services  including  whether  the  skills  and  experience  of  the 
external auditor make it a suitable supplier of non-audit services; whether there are safeguards in 
place to ensure that there is no threat to the objectivity and independence of the audit because the 
external auditor provides non-audit services; and the nature of the non-audit services, the related 
fee levels and fee levels individually and in total relative to the external auditor;

– 

review the Group’s financial and accounting policies and practices;

– 

– 

– 

review the Company’s annual, quarterly (if prepared for publication) and interim financial reports 
and significant financial reporting judgments contained in them, with particular focus on changes 
in accounting policies and practices, major judgmental areas, any significant audit adjustments, 
the  going  concern  assumption  and  any  qualifications,  compliance  with  any  applicable  legal 
requirements  and  accounting  standards,  and  compliance  with  the  requirements  of  the  Listing 
Rules and other legal requirements in relation to financial reporting;

consider  any  significant  or  unusual  items  that  are,  or  may  need  to  be,  reflected  in  the  reports 
and accounts and to give due consideration to any matters that have been raised by the Financial 
Compliance Officer of the Company, the external auditor, the Head of Internal Audit Department 
or the staff responsible for the accounting and financial reporting function;

review with the Group’s management, the external auditor and the internal auditor, the adequacy 
of  the  Group’s  policies  and  procedures  regarding  internal  control  system  (including  financial, 
operational and compliance controls) and risk management system to ensure that such systems 
are effective with audit trails to protect the accuracy and integrity of financial data and to pursue 
relevant  enquiries  into  matters  having,  or  likely  to  have,  a  material  effect  on  the  business  and 
financial  conditions  of  the  Group.  The  result  of  the  review  is  to  be  reported  in  the  Corporate 
Governance Report of the Company, including a Directors’ statement that they have conducted a 
review of its internal control system;

54

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Corporate Governance Report– 

– 

– 

– 

discuss with the management the scope and quality of the internal control system and to ensure 
that management has performed its duty to have an effective internal control system including 
the adequacy of resources, staff qualifications and experience, training programmes and budget 
and experience of staff of the accounting and financial reporting function;

review findings of internal investigation and management’s response of any suspected frauds or 
irregularities or failures of internal controls or infringements of laws, rules and regulations;

review the scope and effectiveness of the internal audit functions and to review the results of the 
internal audit functions regularly with the internal auditor matters including planning of the Audit 
Committee meetings and, if required by the internal auditor, the internal audit programme; and 
to  ensure  co-ordination  between  the  internal  and  external  auditors  and  that  the  internal  audit 
function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within the Company and to review 
and monitor its effectiveness;

review  the  effectiveness  and  monitor  the  use  of  the  whistleblowing  policy  and  procedures  for 
employees  to  raise  concerns,  in  confidence,  to  the  Audit  Committee  about  improprieties  in 
financial reporting, internal control and other matters; and to ensure that proper arrangements are 
in place for fair and independent investigation of these improprieties and for appropriate follow-up 
action;

– 

report to the Board on the matters raised in the SEHK Code; and to

– 

report to the Board, identifying and making recommendations on any matters where action or 
improvement is needed and to consider other topics identified and referred to the Audit Committee 
by the Board.

Under  the  Group’s  whistleblowing  policy,  employees  may  report  any  concern  regarding  accounting, 
internal accounting controls and auditing matters to the Audit Committee without fear of dismissal 
or retaliation, in order to ensure that the Group complies with all the applicable laws and regulations, 
accounting standards, accounting controls and audit practices. The Audit Committee will review each 
complaint and decide on how the investigation should be conducted. In 2013, the Audit Committee 
received no complaint from employees.

The Audit Committee held two meetings during the year ended 31st December, 2013. The following 
is a summary of work performed by the Audit Committee during 2013:

(i)  reviewed  and  discussed  the  annual  accounts  for  2012  and  the  interim  accounts  for  2013  with 
the external auditor and management of the Company, with recommendations to the Board for 
approval;

(ii)  reviewed the significant audit and accounting issues arising from the external auditor’s statutory 
audit of the 2012 annual accounts and issues arising from the review of the 2013 interim accounts;

(iii)  reviewed the impact of the new and revised accounting standards on the Company;

(iv)  reviewed the external auditor’s audit strategy and approach;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

55

Corporate Governance Report(v)  reviewed the non-audit services provided by the external auditor in 2012;

(vi)  met  with  the  external  auditor  without  the  presence  of  management  to  discuss  issues  from  the 

audits and any other matters the external auditor might care to raise;

(vii) reviewed  the  Internal  Audit  Department’s  audit  objectives  and  approval  of  the  annual  internal 

audit plan;

(viii) reviewed the findings and recommendations of the Internal Audit Department on the audits carried 

out on the principal activities of the Group during the year 2012;

(ix)  reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems;

(x)  reviewed  the  relevant  sections  in  the  Corporate  Governance  Report  for  the  year  ended  31st 

December, 2012 concerning the Audit Committee;

(xi)  reviewed the adequacy of the resources, staff qualifications and experience, training programmes 

and budget of the Company’s accounting and financial reporting function;

(xii) reviewed the continuing connected transactions and their annual caps; and

(xiii) reviewed the continuous implementation of the whistleblowing policy.

The minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are prepared by the secretary of the Audit Committee 
with details of all matters considered by the attendees and of decisions reached, including any concern 
raised by the attendees and dissenting views expressed. The final version of the minutes is sent to the 
attendees for their records. The minutes are open for inspection by the Committee members and the 
Board members.

c.  remuneration Committee

The Remuneration Committee was established in 2005. A majority of its members are Independent 
Non-Executive Directors. It currently comprises of Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest (chairman of the 
Remuneration  Committee),  Mr.  TUNG  Chee  Chen  and  Professor  WONG  yue  Chim  Richard,  with 
Ms. Lammy LEE as the secretary of the Remuneration Committee.

The primary duties of the Remuneration Committee include to:

– 

review and recommend to the Board on the Company’s policy and structure of the remuneration 
of  the  Directors  of  the  Company,  senior  management  and  employees  of  the  Group  including 
performance-based bonus scheme on the basis that they are fairly but responsibly rewarded for 
their individual contribution to the overall performance of the Company;

56

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Corporate Governance Report– 

establish and review a formal and transparent procedure for developing remuneration policy;

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

(i) review and approve the management’s remuneration proposals with reference to the Board’s 
corporate goals and objectives; and determine with delegated responsibilities the remuneration 
packages  of  individual  Executive  Directors  of  the  Company  and  senior  management;  and  (ii) 
recommend to the Board on the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

consult the Chairman of the Board and/or Chief Executive Officer of the Company about their 
remuneration proposals for the other Executive Directors of the Company and senior management;

review and approve compensation payable to the Executive Directors of the Company and senior 
management for any loss or termination of office or appointment to ensure that it is consistent 
with contractual terms and is otherwise fair and not excessive;

review and approve compensation arrangements relating to dismissal or removal of Directors for 
misconduct to ensure that they are consistent with contractual terms and are otherwise reasonable 
and appropriate;

ensure that no Director or any of his associates or senior management is involved in deciding his 
own remuneration; and to

advise the Board any matters relating to the remuneration or reward of the Executive Directors of 
the Company or senior management or employees of the Group.

The Remuneration Committee held two meetings during the year ended 31st December, 2013. The 
following is a summary of work performed by the Remuneration Committee during 2013, including:

(i)  reviewed the Company’s policy and remuneration structure for the Directors of the Company, and 

the senior management and employees of the Group;

(ii)  reviewed the discretionary management bonus of the Executive Directors of the Company, and 

the senior management and employees of the Group for the year 2012; and

(iii)  reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  or  determined  with  delegated  responsibilities,  as 
the  case  may  be  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  reference  of  the  Remuneration  Committee, 
the  remuneration  packages  of  the  Directors  of  the  Company,  and  the  senior  management  and 
employees of the Group for the year 2013.

No Director was involved in determining his own remuneration.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

57

Corporate Governance Reportd.  Nomination Committee

The Nomination Committee was established in 2012. A majority of its members of the Nomination 
Committee are Independent Non-Executive Directors and currently comprises of Mr. TUNG Chee Chen 
(chairman of the Nomination Committee), Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest and Professor WONG yue 
Chim Richard, with Ms. Lammy LEE as the secretary of the Nomination Committee.

The primary duties of the Nomination Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review  and  make  recommendation  to  the  Board  on  the  Company’s  policy  for  nomination  of 
Directors;

establish and review a formal, considered and transparent procedures for the appointment of new 
directors and have plans in place for orderly succession for appointments;

review and report annually on implementation of the board diversity policy of the Company (the 
“Board Diversity Policy”), and progress (if relevant);

review the structure, size and composition (including the skills, knowledge, experience and from 
diversity perspective) of the Board at least annually and recommend on any proposed changes to 
the Board to complement the Company’s corporate strategy;

identify, nominate and recommend to the Board suitably qualified candidate, based on meritocracy 
and  the  Board  Diversity  Policy  appropriate  for  the  Company’s  business  and  specific  needs,  to 
become a director of the Company either to fill a casual vacancy or as an addition to the existing 
Board;

recommend  to  the  Board  on  the  appointment  or  re-appointment/re-election  of  Directors  and 
succession  planning  for  Directors  to  maintain  a  balance  of  skills,  knowledge,  experience  and 
diversity of perspectives of the Board;

assess and report to the Board the qualifications of any person proposed by a shareholder of the 
Company for election as a director of the Company to ensure compliance with the nomination 
policy of the Company and the requirements as provided in the Listing Rules are satisfied;

– 

assess the independence of Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

– 

– 

regularly review and report to the Board the contribution required from a Director of the Company 
to perform his responsibilities and whether he is spending sufficient time performing them; and 
to

assess  performance  of  the  Executive  Directors  and  conduct  a  regular  evaluation  of  the  Board’s 
performance by a member of the Nomination Committee, who is an Independent Non-Executive 
Director, and report results of the evaluation to the Board.

58

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Corporate Governance ReportThe Nomination Committee held two meetings and passed resolutions by way of written resolution 
during the year ended 31st December, 2013. The following is a summary of work performed by the 
Nomination Committee during 2013, including:

(i)  reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board of the Company;

(ii)  assessed independence of the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

(iii)  reviewed the contribution of the Directors of the Company for the year 2012;

(iv)  evaluated performance of the Board and assessed performance of the Executive Directors of the 
Company  by  a  member  of  the  Nomination  Committee  who  is  an  Independent  Non-Executive 
Director of the Company in accordance with the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee;

(v)  recommended re-election of the retiring directors at the annual general meeting of the Company 

held on 26th April, 2013;

(vi)  recommended to the Board the appointment of Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan as the Acting Chief 
Financial  Officer  and  election  as  a  member  of  the  Executive  Committee  and  the  Compliance 
Committee of the Company;

(vii) recommended to the Board extension of the consultancy contract for Mr. CHOW Philip yiu Wah, 

a Non-Executive Director of the Company;

(viii) recommended the Board Diversity Policy to the Board; and

(ix)  reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  the  amendments  to  the  terms  of  reference  of  the 

Nomination Committee.

The Board Diversity Policy is summarized as follows:

– 

– 

the Company ensures that its Board has the appropriate balance of skills, experience and diversity 
of perspective of the Board requires to support the execution of its business strategy and in order 
for the Board to be effective;

selection of candidates will be based on a range of perspectives, including but not limited to age, 
culture and educational background, ethnicity, industry experience, skills, knowledge and length 
of service. The Board’s appointment should be based on meritocracy and diversity of perspectives 
appropriate for the Company’s business and specific needs and the contribution that the selected 
candidates will bring to the Board; and

– 

the Nomination Committee will take into consideration of the Board Diversity Policy in identifying 
and nominating suitably qualified candidates to become members of the Board.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

59

Corporate Governance Reporte.  Compliance Committee

The  Compliance  Committee  was  established  in  2004  and  currently  comprises  of  Ms.  Lammy  LEE 
(chairperson of the Compliance Committee), Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan, Mr. MOK yun Lee Paul and 
Mr. FUNG yee Chung Vincent. The Board has delegated the responsibility for monitoring the corporate 
governance compliance to the Compliance Committee.

The primary duties of the Compliance Committee include to:

– 

review, monitor and provide administrative support on the compliance control of the Group and 
compliance of the following corporate governance functions of the Company:

(a)  on the Company’s policies and practices on corporate governance and make recommendations 

to the Board;

(b)  on the training and continuous professional development of Directors and senior management 

of the Group;

(c)  on the Company’s policies and practices on compliance with legal and regulatory requirements;

(d)  on the development of the code of conduct and compliance manuals (if any) applicable to 

employees and Directors;

(e)  on the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and the SEHK Code;

(f)  to report the above items (a) to (e) to the Board regularly; and

(g)  to  prepare  (i)  the  Corporate  Governance  Report  covering  all  mandatory  disclosure 
requirements as set out in the Listing Rules; and/or (ii) information required to be disclosed 
by the Compliance Committee in the Company’s results announcements, the annual reports, 
the interim reports and any other documents, pursuant to the Listing Rules;

– 

– 

review  and  report  to  the  Board  regularly  the  shareholders’  communication  policy  to  ensure  its 
effectiveness; and to

ensure the Company is in compliance with the Listing Rules including disclosure and compliance 
obligations  for  matters  including  notifiable  transactions,  connected  transactions,  continuing 
connected  transactions,  advance  to  an  entity,  financial  assistance  and  guarantees  to  affiliated 
companies of the Company, loan agreements with covenants relating to specific performance of the 
controlling shareholder of the Company, breach of a loan agreement by the Company, disclosure 
of financial information pursuant to Appendix 16 to the Listing Rules, and general obligations of 
disclosure under Rule 13.09 of the Listing Rules.

60

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Corporate Governance ReportThe Compliance Committee held three meetings and passed resolutions by way of written resolution 
during the year ended 31st December, 2013. The following is a summary of work performed by the 
Compliance Committee during 2013, including:

(i)  reviewed and reported to the Board on the amendments to the SEHK Code and the Listing Rules 
in relation to the board diversity policy and the environmental, social and governance reporting 
guidance;

(ii)  reviewed and recommended to the Board the revisions to the Company’s CG Code;

(iii)  reviewed the Company’s policies and practices on corporate governance and made recommendations 

to the Board;

(iv)  reviewed the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and the SEHK Code and the disclosure 

requirements in the Corporate Governance Report;

(v)  reviewed  and  monitored  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  compliance  with  legal  and 
regulatory requirements, particularly in the areas of legal, financial and accounting, internal control 
and audit;

(vi)  reviewed and monitored the code of conduct and compliance applicable to employees and Directors 

of the Company;

(vii) reviewed and recommended to the Board on the connected transaction in relation to the renewal of 
the consultancy contract of Mr. CHOW Philip yiu Wah, a Non-Executive Director of the Company;

(viii) reviewed and monitored the training and continuous professional development of Directors of the 

Company;

(ix)  reviewed and reported to the Board on the renewal of the continuing connected transactions and 
the revision of the annual caps for years 2014, 2015 and 2016, and the significant contracts of the 
Group; and

(x)  reviewed and reported to the Board on the effectiveness of the shareholders’ communication policy.

f.  finance Committee

The Finance Committee was established in 1993 and currently comprises of Professor Roger KING, 
Mr. CHOW Philip yiu Wah and Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest, with Ms. Lammy LEE as the secretary 
of the Finance Committee.

The primary duties of the Finance Committee include to:

– 

assist in the financial requirements of the Group including financing, refinancing, leasing, purchase 
and sale of vessels, properties and equipment and the financing of the business operations of the 
Group;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

61

Corporate Governance Report– 

– 

report to the Board on its decisions, and any matters in respect of which it considers that action 
is needed, and its recommendations as to the steps to be taken; and to

discuss and review the disclosure obligations of the Company on financial, accounting or related 
issues on compliance with the Listing Rules and refer transactions with their recommendations 
to the Executive Committee of the Company for its endorsement and/or approval.

g.  Share Committee

The Share Committee was established in 1992 and currently comprises of Mr. CHOW Philip yiu Wah 
and Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest, with Ms. Lammy LEE as the secretary of the Share Committee.

The primary duties of the Share Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

deal  with  and  grant  approval  on  the  removal  of  the  ordinary  shares  of  the  Company  from  the 
Principal Register in Bermuda to the Branch Register in Hong Kong or vice versa;

deal with share transactions including, but not limited to, share repurchases, issue of bonus shares, 
scrip  dividend  schemes,  top  up  placings,  share  subscriptions  and  placement  of  the  Company’s 
shares;

give  authorisation  to  the  Company’s  Principal  Registrar  and  Branch  Registrar  to  issue  share 
certificates to shareholders who have reported loss of share certificates and in connection with 
the above share transactions; and to

discuss and review the disclosure obligations of the Company on share transactions and compliance 
with the Listing Rules.

h.  inside information Committee

The Inside Information Committee was established on 7th August, 2013 and currently comprises of 
Mr.  TUNG  Chee  Chen  (chairman  of  the  Inside  Information  Committee),  Mr.  TUNG  Lieh  Cheung 
Andrew, Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan and Ms. Lammy LEE.

The primary duties of the Inside Information Committee include to:

– 

– 

ensure  proper  systems  and  controls  are  in  place  to  collect,  review  and  verify  potential  inside 
information;

identify, assess and escalate potential inside information to the attention of the Board; report to 
the Board on the recommendation of the Inside Information Committee, and any matter in respect 
of which it considers that action is needed, and its recommendation as to the actions to be taken 
and what information to be disclosed;

– 

vet and clear announcements or other public disclosures; and

– 

supervise the Company’s compliance with continuing disclosure obligations.

62

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Corporate Governance Report9.  attendance records of Board Meetings, Board Committees Meetings and General Meetings

The attendance records of each Director and each member of the eight* Board Committees at the relevant 
meetings held in year 2013 are as follows:

Meetings attended/Held in 2013

executive  
Committee

audit  
Committee

remuneration  
Committee

Nomination 
Committee

Compliance  
Committee

finance  
Committee

Share  
Committee 

Board

inside  
information 
Committee* 

2012 aGM

No. of meetings held during 

the year

executive Directors
Mr. TUNG Chee Chen 
(Chairman, President 

  and Chief  Executive Officer)
Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan** 

(Acting Chief Financial Officer)
Mr. Kenneth Gilbert CAMBIE*** 
(resigned on 1st June, 2013)

Non-executive Directors
Professor Roger KING
Mr. CHOW Philip yiu Wah

independent Non-executive 
  Directors
Mr. Simon MURRAy
Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest
Professor WONG yue Chim Richard
Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward

others
Ms. Lammy LEE 

(Company Secretary)
Mr. MOK yun Lee Paul 

(Group Financial Controller)
Mr. FUNG yee Chung Vincent 

(Chief Auditor)

5

5/5

5/5
5/5

2/2#

5/5
5/5

2/5
5/5
4/5
4/5

–

–

–

10

10/10

10/10
6/6#

4/4#

–
–

–
–
–
–

–

–

–

2

–

–
–

–

–
–

1/2
2/2
2/2
2/2

–

–

–

2

2/2

–
–

–

–
–

–
2/2
2/2
–

–

–

–

2

2/2

–
–

–

–
–

–
2/2
2/2
–

–

–

–

3

–

–
2/2#

1/1#

–
–

–
–
–
–

3/3

3/3

3/3

2

–

–
–

0#

2/2
2/2

–
1/2
–
–

–

–

–

1

–

–
–

1/1#

–
1/1

–
1/1
–
–

–

–

–

0

0

0
0

–

–
–

–
–
–
–

–

–

–

1

1/1

1/1
1/1

1/1#

1/1
1/1

0/1
1/1
1/1
1/1

–

–

–

Average attendance rate

90%

100%

87.50%

100%

100%

100%

83.33%

100%

N/A

90%

* 

** 

Inside Information Committee was established on 7th August, 2013.

appointed  as  the  Acting  Chief  Financial  Officer  and  was  elected  as  a  member  of  the  Executive  Committee  and  the  Compliance 

Committee of the Company, all with effect from 1st June, 2013.

*** 

resigned as an Executive Director and the Chief Financial Officer and ceased as the chairman of the Finance Committee and the Share 

Committee of the Company and a member of the Executive Committee and the Compliance Committee of the Company, all with effect 

from 1st June, 2013.

# 

the record during his tenure

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

63

Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  Securities transactions by Directors

The  Company  has  adopted  its  own  code  of  conduct  regarding  securities  transactions  by  Directors  on 
terms no less exacting than the required standard set out in the Model Code for Securities Transactions by 
Directors of Listed Issuers (the “Model Code”) contained in Appendix 10 to the Listing Rules.

All Directors have confirmed, following specific enquiry by the Company, that they have fully complied 
with  the  required  standards  set  out  in  both  the  Company’s  own  code  and  the  Model  Code  for  the  year 
ended 31st December, 2013.

11.  Share interests of Directors and Senior Management

a.  Directors

Directors’ interests in the shares of the Company are set out on pages 73 and 74 of this annual report.

b.  Senior Management

As at 31st December, 2013, the number of shares of the Company held by the senior management of 
the Company are as follows:

Name

Mr. Michael KWOK
Mr. Erxin yAO
Mr. Stephen NG
Mr. Steve SIU
Ms. Lammy LEE

Number of shares held

–
5,000
–
–
–

12.  emoluments of Directors and Senior Management#

a.  emoluments of Directors

The emoluments of the Directors of the Company for the year ended 31st December, 2013 are set out 
on page 113 of this annual report.

b.  emoluments of Senior Management

The emoluments of the senior management of the Company for the year ended 31st December, 2013 
are set out below (including a senior management who retired during the year 2013):

emolument bands (US$)

256,401~320,500
384,601~448,700
448,701~512,800

Total

Number of individuals 
2013

1
4
1

6

# 

biographical details of senior management are set out on page 42 of this annual report.

64

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.  aCCoUNtaBilitY aND aUDit

1.  external auditor

PricewaterhouseCoopers was re-appointed as the Company’s external auditor by shareholders at the 2012 
AGM until the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.

The Company has established a policy on appointment of external auditor in providing non-audit services, 
setting out the principles by which an external auditor may be appointed to provide non-audit services, 
with a view to ensuring the independence of the external auditor.

The fee in respect of audit and non-audit services provided by the external auditors to the Company for 
the  year  ended  31st  December,  2013  is  set  out  on  page  115  note  11  to  the  consolidated  accounts  of  this 
annual report.

2.  Directors’ and auditor’s acknowledgement

All Directors acknowledge their responsibility for preparing the accounts for the year ended 31st December, 
2013.

PricewaterhouseCoopers, the auditor of the Company, acknowledges the reporting responsibilities in the 
auditor’s report on the financial statements for the year ended 31st December, 2013.

3.  internal Controls

The Board is responsible for maintaining sound and effective internal control systems for the Group, and 
through  the  Audit  Committee,  conducts  reviews  of  the  effectiveness  of  such  systems  at  least  annually, 
covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management 
functions.  The  process  used  in  reviewing  the  effectiveness  of  these  internal  control  systems  includes 
discussion with management on risk areas identified by management of the Company and principal division 
and review of significant issues arising from internal and external audits. The Company’s internal control 
systems  comprise  a  well  established  organisational  structure  and  comprehensive  policies  and  standards. 
Procedures  have  been  designed  to  safeguard  assets  against  unauthorised  use  or  disposition,  to  maintain 
proper  accounting  records,  for  assurance  of  the  reliability  of  financial  information  for  internal  use  or 
publication, and to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The purpose of the Company’s 
internal  control  is  to  provide  reasonable,  but  not  absolute,  assurance  against  material  misstatement  or 
loss  and  to  manage  rather  than  eliminate  risks  of  failure  in  operational  systems  and  achievement  of  the 
Company’s objectives.

The Board has established the following measures to provide effective internal controls:

– 

– 

a distinct organisational structure for the principal division with defined authority responsibilities and 
control/measures;

an  annual  budget  for  the  principal  division  allocating  resources  in  accordance  with  identified  and 
prioritised  business  opportunities.  The  annual  budget  for  the  principal  division  is  approved  by  the 
Board on an annual basis;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

65

Corporate Governance Report– 

– 

– 

– 

a  comprehensive  management  accounting  system  for  the  principal  division  to  provide  financial 
and  operational  performance  indicators  to  the  relevant  management,  and  financial  information  for 
reporting and disclosure purposes. Actual operational results are measured against budget each month. 
Detailed forecasts for the year and long-term forecasts of profit and loss, cash flow and balance sheets 
are regularly reviewed and updated. Variances to budget are analysed and explained and appropriate 
action taken, if necessary;

systems and procedures are in place to identify, measure, manage and control risks including business, 
compliance, operational, financial and information services risks that may have an impact on the Group 
and the principal division. Exposure to these risks is monitored by the Executive Committee and the 
management of the principal division;

clearly defined procedures are in place for the control of capital and major expenditure commitments, 
off-balance  sheet  financial  instruments  and  the  supervision,  control  and  review  of  the  investment 
portfolio; and

the Internal Audit Department performs independent reviews of the risks and controls identified to 
provide reasonable assurance to management of the Company and principal division and the Audit 
Committee that controls have been set in place and adequately addressed.

The internal audit function, which is centrally controlled, monitors compliance with policies and standards 
as well as the effectiveness of internal control structures across the Company and the Group. To preserve the 
independence of the internal audit function, the Head of Internal Audit reports functionally to the Audit 
Committee whose chairman is an Independent Non-Executive Director who has direct access to the Board. 
Using a risk-based approach, the Internal Audit Department plans its internal audit schedules annually in 
consultation with, but independent of, management of the Company and the principal division. The Internal 
Audit Department has unrestricted access to information that allows it to review all aspects of the Group’s 
risk management, control and governance processes. Independent reviews of different financial, business 
and functional operations and activities are conducted with audit resources being focused on high risk areas. 
Ad hoc reviews are also conducted on areas of concern identified by the Audit Committee and management 
of the Company and the principal division. The management of the Company and the principal division 
including the affected subsidiary are notified of the deficiencies noted for rectification, and the Internal 
Audit Department follows up with the implementation of audit recommendations.

The  Audit  Committee  on  behalf  of  the  Board  assesses  the  effectiveness  of  the  internal  control  system 
including detecting fraud and other irregularities by reviewing the Internal Audit Department’s work and 
findings. On a yearly basis, the Internal Audit Department summarises the major audit findings and other 
relevant information that have come to the Internal Audit Department’s attention during the course of the 
audits and reports to the Audit Committee.

66

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Corporate Governance ReportAccording to the 2013 Internal Audit report, the Group’s internal control system is functioning effectively, 
there was no significant weakness found in the course of the audits carried out during the year, and there 
is no change in the nature and extent of significant risks as well as the scope and quality of management’s 
ongoing monitoring of the risks and the internal control system. The Audit Committee has concluded that 
the Group has maintained sound and effective internal controls to safeguard the Group’s assets, and there 
is an ongoing process in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the 
Group. The Board, therefore, is of the view that there are no significant frauds, irregularities, internal control 
deficiencies or suspected infringement of laws, rules and regulations that cause the Board to believe that the 
systems of internal control are ineffective or inadequate, and there are no significant areas of concern which 
may affect shareholders. The Board is satisfied that the Company and the Group have fully complied with the 
code provisions on internal control as set forth in the SEHK Code for the year ended 31st December, 2013.

To  ensure  on-going  compliance  with  the  SEHK  Code,  the  Audit  Committee  reviewed  the  adequacy  of 
staffing of the accounting and financial reporting function on behalf of the Board and was satisfied with 
the  adequacy  of  resources,  staff  qualifications  and  experience,  training  programmes  and  budget  of  the 
Company’s accounting and financial reporting function.

The  Company  has  implemented  the  following  procedures  and  internal  controls  for  the  handling  and 
dissemination of inside information:

a) 

it monitors any inside information and makes appropriate announcement as required by the Listing 
Rules;

b) 

it conducts its affairs by reference to the “Guidelines on Disclosure of Inside Information” issued by 
the Securities and Futures Commission;

c) 

it has established procedures for handling external affairs about the Group; and

d) 

it  has  established  guidelines  to  be  followed  by  senior  management  and  employees  in  dealing  with 
confidential and inside information.

C.  CoMMUNiCatioN WitH SHareHolDerS

The Company attaches great importance to communications with shareholders. Extensive information on the 
Group’s activities, business strategies and developments is provided in the Company’s annual reports and interim 
reports. Shareholders of the Company are encouraged to attend the annual general meetings of the Company 
which offer a valuable forum for dialogue and interaction with management. The Chairman of the Board and 
the chairmen of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and other 
Board committees, or in their absence, another member of the relevant committee, are available at the annual 
general meetings to answer questions from shareholders on the business of the Group. A separate resolution is 
proposed by the Chairman in respect of each issue at the general meetings.

The Company has also established a shareholders’ communication policy to ensure shareholders are provided 
with ready, equal and timely access to balanced and understandable information about the Company. The policy 
is regularly reviewed to ensure its effectiveness and is available on written request to the Company Secretary.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

67

Corporate Governance ReportThe most recent shareholders’ meeting of the Company was the 2012 AGM held at the Renaissance Harbour 
View Hotel, Wanchai, Hong Kong on 26th April, 2013, at which the following ordinary resolutions were passed 
with the voting results as follows:

Number of Votes (%)

ordinary resolutions

1.

To consider and adopt the audited Financial Statements and the 
Reports of the Directors and the Auditor for the year ended 31st 
December, 2012.

2.

To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31st December, 2012.

3(a). To re-elect Mr. TUNG Chee Chen as Director.

3(b). To re-elect Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan as Director.

3(c). To re-elect Professor Roger KING as Director.

3(d). To re-elect Professor Wong yue Chim Richard as Director.

4.

5.

To authorise the Board of Directors to fix the Directors’ remuneration.

To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers as Auditor and to authorise the 
Board of Directors to fix their remuneration.

513,033,162
(96.981894%)

6(a). To grant a general mandate to the Directors to allot, issue and deal 

with the Company’s shares.

6(b). To grant a general mandate to the Directors to repurchase the 

Company’s shares.

6(c). To extend the general mandate to issue shares to cover the shares 

repurchased by the Company under Resolution No. 6(b).

457,170,053
(86.408507%)

528,980,379
(99.999998%)

456,645,072
(86.309119%)

for

529,077,402
 (99.999998%)

527,777,002
 (99.753835%)

505,082,951
(95.464933%)

510,499,520
(96.792608%)

510,400,554
(96.469464%)

461,177,076
(87.159027%)

524,199,279
(99.975185%)

against

10
 (0.000002%)

1,302,410
 (0.246165%)

23,993,995
(4.535067%)

16,916,292
(3.207392%)

18,679,358
(3.530536%)

67,944,336
(12.840973%)

130,110
(0.024815%)

15,965,750
(3.018106%)

71,909,859
(13.591493%)

10
(0.000002%)

72,435,840
(13.690881%)

Since the publication of the Company’s 2010 interim report, the Company has offered to the shareholders of the 
Company the following options to choose the language and means of receipt of the corporate communications 
of the Company in support of environment protection and for the purpose of saving printing and mailing costs:

(1)  to read the corporate communication published on the Company’s website at http://www.ooilgroup.com in 
place of receiving printed copies, and receive an e-mail notification or a printed notification letter (as the 
case may be) of the publication of the corporate communication on website; or

(2)  to receive either the printed English version, the printed Chinese version or both the printed English and 

Chinese versions of the Company’s corporate communication.

68

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D.  SHareHolDerS’ riGHtS

1.  Convening a special general meeting

Pursuant to the Bermuda Companies Act and the Company’s Bye-law, the shareholder(s) of the Company 
holding not less than one-tenth of the paid up capital of the Company having the right to vote at general 
meetings of the Company shall have the right, by written requisition sent to the Company’s registered office 
at Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda and to the Company’s principal office 
at 33rd Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong, for the attention of the Company 
Secretary of the Company, to require a special general meeting (the “SGM”) to be called by the Board for 
the transaction of any business specified in such requisition.

The  written  requisition  must  state  the  purposes  of  the  general  meeting,  signed  by  the  shareholder(s) 
concerned  and  may  consist  of  several  documents  in  like  form,  each  signed  by  one  or  more  of  those 
shareholders.

Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  Company’s  branch  share  registrar  (the  “Registrar”)  that  the 
shareholder(s)  submitting  the  requisition  is/are  qualified  to  attend  and  vote  at  any  general  meeting,  the 
Company will convene a SGM by serving sufficient notice in accordance with the statutory requirements 
to all the registered shareholders.

2.  putting forward proposals at general meetings

The  shareholder(s)  of  the  Company  holding  (i)  not  less  than  one-twentieth  of  the  total  voting  rights  of 
all shareholders having the right to vote at the general meeting of the Company; or (ii) not less than 100 
shareholders of the Company, can submit:

(i)  a written request stating the resolution intended to be moved at an annual general meeting; or

(ii)  a  statement  of  not  more  than  1,000  words  with  respect  to  the  matter  referred  to  in  any  proposed 

resolution or the business to be dealt with at a particular general meeting.

The  written  request/statement  must  be  signed  by  the  shareholder(s)  concerned  and  deposited  at  the 
Company’s registered office at Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda and to the 
Company’s  principal  office  at  33rd  Floor,  Harbour  Centre,  25  Harbour  Road,  Wanchai,  Hong  Kong,  for 
the attention of the Company Secretary of the Company, not less than six weeks before the annual general 
meeting in the case of a requisition requiring notice of a resolution and not less than one week before the 
general meeting in the case of any other requisition.

Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  Registrar  of  the  Company  that  the  shareholder(s)  making  the 
proposal is/are qualified to attend and vote at the general meeting, the Company will:

(i)  include the resolution in the agenda for the annual general meeting; or

(ii) circulate the statement for the general meeting,

provided that the shareholder(s) concerned have deposited a sum of money sufficient to meet the Company’s 
expenses  in  serving  the  notice  of  the  resolution  and/or  circulating  the  statement  to  all  the  registered 
shareholders.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

69

Corporate Governance Report3.  putting enquiries to the Board

Shareholders who have enquiries to put to the Board of the Company may write to the Company Secretary 
of the Company at 33rd Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong.

e.  iNVeStor relatioNS

The Company continues to promote and enhance investor relations and communication with its investors. The 
Company’s  investor  relations  team  maintains  regular  dialogue  with  institutional  investors,  analysts  and  fund 
managers to keep them abreast of the Group’s development.

Shareholders, investors and members of the public are able to access up-to-date corporate information and events 
related to the Group on the Company’s website.

1.  Shareholdings information

As at 31st December, 2013:

Authorised  share  capital:  US$205,000,000,  comprising  900,000,000  ordinary  shares  of  US$0.1  each, 
65,000,000 limited voting convertible redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each and 50,000,000 redeemable 
preferred shares of US$1 each.

Issued and fully-paid up capital: US$62,579,329.7 comprising 625,793,297 ordinary shares of US$0.1 each.

Details of the shareholding of the ordinary shares of the Company by category as at 31st December, 2013 
are as follows:

Category

Corporate
Individual

Total

Number of 
Shareholders

Shareholders 
% of total

25
998

1,023

2.4438%
97.5562%

Number of 
Shares

619,739,361
6,053,936

100.00%

625,793,297

Details of the shareholding of the ordinary shares of the Company by range as at 31st December, 2013 are 
as follows:

Number of Shares held

1 – 10,000
10,001 – 100,000
100,001 – 1,000,000
1,000,001 or above

Total

Number of 
Shareholders

Shareholders 
% of total

945
69
5
4

1,023

92.3754%
6.7449%
0.4887%
0.3910%

100.00%

70

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  public float

Based on information that is publicly available to the Company and within the knowledge of the Directors, 
the percentage of its public float exceeds 25% as at 31st December, 2013.

3.  financial Calendar

Important dates for the coming financial year are set out on page 43 of this annual report.

4.  Memorandum of association and Bye-laws

There are no changes to the memorandum of association and bye-laws of the Company (the “Constitutional 
Documents”) during the year. The consolidated version of the Constitutional Documents is available on 
the Company’s website and the HKExnews website.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

71

Corporate Governance ReportThe Board of Directors of the Company presents this report together with the audited accounts for the year ended 31st December, 
2013.

priNCipal aCtiVitieS

The principal activity of the Company is investment holding and the activities of its principal subsidiaries, associated companies 
and jointly controlled entities are set out on pages 145 to 154 of this annual report.

GroUp reSUltS

The consolidated results of the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Group”) are set out on page 81 of 
this annual report.

DiViDeNDS

The Board of Directors of the Company did not declare the payment of an interim dividend for the year ended 31st December, 
2013.

The Board of Directors of the Company has recommended the payment of a final dividend of US1.88 cents (HK$0.147 at the 
exchange rate of US$1: HK$7.8) per ordinary share for the year ended 31st December, 2013 to be paid on 6th June, 2014 to the 
shareholders of the Company whose names appear on the register of members of the Company on 8th May, 2014. Shareholders 
should complete the dividend election form (if applicable) and return it to the Company’s Hong Kong branch share registrar, 
Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited, not later than 4:30 p.m. on 28th May, 2014.

DireCtorS

The Directors of the Company during the year and up to the date of this report were:

executive Directors

Mr. TUNG Chee Chen (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan (Acting Chief Financial Officer) *
Mr. Kenneth Gilbert CAMBIE (Chief Financial Officer) **
* 
** 

appointed as the Acting Chief Financial Officer on 1st June, 2013
resigned as the Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer on 1st June, 2013

Non-executive Directors

Professor Roger KING
Mr. CHOW Philip yiu Wah

independent Non-executive Directors

Mr. Simon MURRAy
Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest
Professor WONG yue Chim Richard
Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward

In accordance with the provisions of the Company’s Bye-laws, Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew, Mr. Chow Philip yiu Wah and Mr. 
Simon Murray will retire by rotation at the annual general meeting of the Company to be held on 25th April, 2014 (the “Annual 
General Meeting”) and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.

72

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Report of the DirectorsMr. Chow Philip yiu Wah has a consultancy contract with the Company which will expire on 30th June, 2014. Save as disclosed 
herein, none of the Directors has a service contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries which is not determinable by the 
employing company within one year without payment of compensation, other than statutory compensation.

The Company has received from each Independent Non-Executive Director confirmation of his independence pursuant to Rule 
3.13 of the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”) and the 
Company considers all of the Independent Non-Executive Directors are independent.

DireCtorS’ riGHtS to aCQUire SHareS or DeBeNtUreS

Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries was a party to any arrangements to enable the Directors of the Company to 
acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate at any time 
during the year or at the end of the year.

DireCtorS’ aND CHief eXeCUtiVe’S iNtereSt

1.  Significant Contracts

The Group shares the rental of office space at Harbour Centre, Hong Kong on an actual cost reimbursement basis with 
Island Navigation Corporation International Limited (“INCIL”), which is owned by a Tung family trust. The total amount 
of rental on an actual cost reimbursement basis paid by INCIL to the Group for the year ended 31st December, 2013 was 
approximately US$1,364,000.

yuensung Investment Company Limited (“yuensung”), a company controlled by Mr. C U Tung, the uncle of Mr. Tung Chee 
Chen, also shares the rental of an office at Harbour Centre, Hong Kong with our Group. The total amount of rental on an 
actual cost reimbursement basis paid by yuensung to the Group for the year ended 31st December, 2013 was approximately 
US$75,000.

Except for the above (other than contracts amongst Group companies), no other contracts or arrangements of significance 
in relation to the Group’s business to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party, and in which a Director of 
the Company had a material interest, subsisted at the year end or at any time during the year.

2.  Shares

As at 31st December, 2013, the issued share capital of the Company (the “Issued Capital”) consisted of 625,793,297 ordinary 
shares (the “Shares”). The interests and short positions of the Directors and the Chief Executive of the Company in the 
Shares, the underlying Shares and the debentures of the Company or any of its associated corporations (within the meaning 
of Part XV of the Securities and Futures Ordinance (“SFO”)) as recorded in the register kept by the Company pursuant to 
Section 352 of the SFO or otherwise notified to the Company and The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Stock 
Exchange”)  pursuant  to  the  Model  Code  for  Securities  Transactions  by  Directors  of  Listed  Issuers  (the  “Model  Code”) 
contained in the Listing Rules, were as follows:–

Name

Tung Chee Chen

Chang Tsann Rong Ernest
Chow Philip yiu Wah

Simon Murray
Professor Wong yue Chim Richard

Direct 
interests

–

612,731
133,100

10,000
–

other 
interests

total number 
of Shares 
(long position)

percentage

429,950,088
(Notes 1 & 2)
–
20,000
(Note 3)
–
500
(Note 4)

429,950,088

68.70%

612,731
153,100

10,000
500

0.098%
0.024%

0.002%
0.00008%

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

73

Report of the Directors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:

1.  Mr. Tung Chee Chen has an interest in a trust which, through Artson Global Limited (“Artson”) as trustee, holds shares of Thelma Holdings 

Limited  (“Thelma”),  which  has  an  indirect  interest  in  429,950,088  Shares,  in  which  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  (“Fortune  Crest”)  and  Gala  Way 

Company  Inc.  (“Gala  Way”),  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  of  Thelma,  have  direct  interests  in  350,722,656  Shares  and  79,227,432  Shares 

respectively. The voting rights in respect of such 429,950,088 Shares are held by Mr. Tung Chee Chen through Tung Holdings (Trustee) Inc. 

(“THTI”).

2. 

Fortune Crest and Gala Way together are referred to as the controlling shareholders.

3. 

20,000 Shares are held by the spouse of Mr. Chow Philip yiu Wah.

4. 

500 Shares are held by the spouse of Professor Wong yue Chim Richard.

Save as disclosed above, as at 31st December, 2013, none of the Directors or the Chief Executive of the Company had any 
interest or short position in the Shares, the underlying Shares and the debentures of the Company or any of its associated 
corporation (within the meaning of the SFO) which were required to be: (a) notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange 
pursuant to Divisions 7 and 8 of Part XV of the SFO (including interests and short positions which they are taken or deemed 
to have under such provisions of the SFO); or (b) entered in the register kept by the Company pursuant to Section 352 of 
the SFO; or (c) notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange pursuant to the Model Code.

Save as disclosed in below section “Substantial Shareholders’ Share Interest”, as at 31st December, 2013, none of the Directors 
or the Chief Executive of the Company is a director or an employee of a company which had an interest or short position 
in the Shares and the underlying Shares which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of Divisions 
2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO.

3.  Directors’ interests in Competing Business

As at 31st December, 2013, none of the Directors and their respective associates (as defined in the Listing Rules) had any 
interest in a business, which competes or may compete with the business of the Group.

SUBStaNtial SHareHolDerS’ SHare iNtereSt

As  at  31st  December,  2013,  the  following  persons  (other  than  the  Directors  or  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Company)  had  an 
interest or short position in the Shares and the underlying Shares which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under the 
provisions of Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO as recorded in the register required to be kept by the Company under 
Section 336 of the SFO:

Name

Artson Global Limited *
Hanberry Global Limited
Thelma Holdings Limited *
Tung Chee Hwa
Archmore Investment Limited *
Edgemont Holdings Limited *
Javier Global Limited *
Bartlock Assets Ltd.
Flowell Development Inc.
Izone Capital Limited *
Jeference Capital Inc. *
Tung Holdings (Trustee) Inc. *
Fortune Crest Inc. *
Gala Way Company Inc. *

Nature of interest

Trustee
Trustee
Indirect
Indirect
Beneficiary of a trust
Indirect
Indirect
Beneficiary of a trust
Beneficiary of a trust
Beneficiary of a trust
Beneficiary of a trust
Voting
Direct
Direct

74

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Number of Shares 
interested 
(long position)

429,950,088 (Note 1)
429,950,088 (Note 2)
429,950,088 (Note 3)
429,975,319 (Note 4)
429,950,088 (Note 5)
429,950,088 (Note 6)
429,950,088 (Note 7)
429,950,088 (Note 8)
429,950,088 (Note 9)
429,950,088 (Note 10)
429,950,088 (Note 11)
429,950,088 (Note 12)
350,722,656 (Note 13)
79,227,432 (Note 14)

percentage

68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
56.04%
12.66%

Report of the Directors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:

1. 

Artson, a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, holds 56.36% of the shares of Thelma and, accordingly, has an indirect interest 

in the same Shares in which Thelma has an interest.

2. 

Hanberry Global Limited (“Hanberry”), a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Hwa (brother of Mr. Tung Chee Chen, brother-in-

law of Professor Roger King, and father of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew and Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan), holds 43.64% of the shares of Thelma 

and, accordingly, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Thelma has an interest.

3. 

Thelma, a company which is owned collectively by Artson and Hanberry, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Fortune Crest and 

Gala Way, wholly-owned subsidiaries of Thelma, have an interest.

4.  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa  has  an  interest  in  a  trust  which,  through  Hanberry  as  trustee,  holds  shares  of  Thelma,  which  has  an  indirect  interest  in 

429,950,088 Shares. Mrs. Tung Chiu Hung Ping Betty (spouse of Mr. Tung Chee Hwa, sister-in-law of Mr. Tung Chee Chen and Professor Roger 

King, and mother of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew and Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan) owns 25,231 Shares.

5. 

Archmore Investment Limited (“Archmore”), a company which is wholly owned by Edgemont Holdings Limited (“Edgemont”), has an interest in 

a trust which, through Artson as trustee, holds shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

6. 

Edgemont has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Archmore, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Edgemont, has an interest.

7. 

Javier Global Limited (“Javier”), a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which 

Edgemont, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Javier, has an interest.

8. 

Bartlock Assets Ltd., a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Hwa, has an interest in a trust which, through Hanberry as trustee, 

holds shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

9. 

Flowell Development Inc., a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, has an interest in a trust which, through Artson as trustee, 

holds shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

10. 

Izone Capital Limited, a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, has an interest in a trust which, through Artson as trustee, 

holds shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

11. 

Jeference Capital Inc., a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, has an interest in a trust which, through Artson as trustee, holds 

shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

12.  THTI is a company wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen.

13.  Fortune Crest has a direct interest in 350,722,656 Shares.

14.  Gala Way has a direct interest in 79,227,432 Shares.

* 

For those companies marked with an asterisk, Mr. Tung Chee Chen is either a director of these companies or a director of a company which is a 

corporate director of these companies.

Save as disclosed herein, as at 31st December, 2013, the Company has not been notified by any person (other than the Directors 
or  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Company)  who  had  an  interest  or  short  position  in  the  Shares  or  the  underlying  Shares  which 
were required to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO, or which were 
recorded in the register required to be kept by the Company under Section 336 of the SFO.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

75

Report of the DirectorsCoNNeCteD traNSaCtioNS

During the year ended 31st December, 2013, the Group had the following continuing connected transactions (the “Continuing 
Connected  Transactions”)  constituted  by  the  following  agreements  entered  into  by  OOCL  (Taiwan)  Co.,  Ltd.  (“OTWL”),  the 
Group’s Taiwanese subsidiary and acting as the general agent for the carrier of the Group in Taiwan:

a)  CMt Master agreement

Pursuant  to  a  master  agreement  dated  29th  June,  2005,  as  supplemented  by  the  supplemental  agreements  dated  10th 
December, 2007 and 15th December, 2010, all entered into between OTWL and Chinese Maritime Transport Ltd. (“CMT”), 
CMT agreed to provide and to procure members of the CMT group to provide various services to the Group including (i) 
trucking service; (ii) leasing of equipment (including chassis and tractors); (iii) maintenance and repair services for generator 
sets and chassis; (iv) freight station depot and container storage facilities; (v) container yard and gate services; (vi) crew 
manning services; and (vii) container inspection services, for successive periods of three years expired on 31st December, 
2013  subject  to  the  annual  caps  of  not  exceeding  US$43,000,000,  US$45,200,000  and  US$47,500,000  for  the  years  2011, 
2012 and 2013 respectively.

During the year 2013, US$31,979,000 was paid by OTWL to the CMT group for the aforesaid services.

On 4th December, 2013, OTWL and CMT agreed to renew the term of the master agreement for three years commencing 
from 1st January, 2014 for the provision of the aforesaid services other than container inspection services, by CMT to the 
Group and to revise the annual caps to not exceeding US$50,000,000, US$52,500,000 and US$55,000,000 for the years 2014, 
2015 and 2016 respectively.

b)  aii Master agreement

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 29th June, 2005, as supplemented by the supplemental agreement dated 10th December, 
2007 and 15th December, 2010, all entered into between OTWL and Associated International Inc. (“AII”), AII agreed to 
provide and to procure members of the AII group to provide various services to the Group including (i) provision of office 
premises; and (ii) freight station depot and container storage facilities, for successive periods of three years expired on 31st 
December, 2013 subject to the annual caps of not exceeding US$2,700,000 for the years 2011, 2012 and 2013 respectively.

During the year 2013, US$1,436,000 was paid by OTWL to the AII group for the aforesaid services.

On 4th December, 2013, OTWL and AII agreed to renew the term of the master agreement for three years commencing 
from 1st January, 2014 for the provision of the aforesaid services by AII to the Group and to revise the annual caps to not 
exceeding US$2,800,000 for the years 2014, 2015 and 2016 respectively.

Mr. John Peng is the controlling shareholder of CMT and AII, and the brother-in-law of Mr. Tung Chee Chen who is an Executive 
Director, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company; the brother-in-law of Professor Roger King, a Non-
Executive Director of the Company; the uncle of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew, an Executive Director of the Company, and 
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan, an Executive Director and the Acting Chief Financial Officer of the Company; and the brother-in-law 
of Mr. Tung Chee Hwa who has an interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in certain substantial shareholders of the 
Company. Mr. Peng and accordingly CMT and AII are therefore connected persons of the Company as defined in the Listing Rules.

Pursuant  to  Rule  14A.37  of  the  Listing  Rules,  the  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors  of  the  Company,  namely  Mr.  Simon 
Murray, Mr. Chang Tsann Rong Ernest, Professor Wong yue Chim Richard and Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward, have reviewed the 
Continuing Connected Transactions and confirmed that the Continuing Connected Transactions have been entered into (a) in 
the ordinary and usual course of business of the Group; (b) on normal commercial terms or on terms no less favourable to the 
Group than terms available to or from independent third parties; and (c) in accordance with the relevant agreements governing 
them on terms that are fair and reasonable and in the interests of the shareholders of the Company as a whole.

76

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Report of the DirectorsThe  Company’s  auditor  was  engaged  to  report  on  the  Group’s  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  in  accordance  with  Hong 
Kong Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 “Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information” and with reference to Practice Note 740 “Auditor’s Letter on Continuing Connected Transactions under the Hong 
Kong Listing Rules” issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants. The auditor has issued his unqualified 
letter  containing  the  findings  and  conclusions  in  respect  of  the  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  as  disclosed  above  in 
accordance with Rule 14A.38 of the Listing Rules and nothing has come to their attention that causes them to believe that the 
disclosed Continuing Connected Transactions:

(i)  have not been approved by the Board of Directors of the Company;

(ii)  were not entered into, in all material respects, in accordance with the relevant agreements governing the transactions; and

(iii)  have exceeded the maximum aggregate annual caps in respect of each of the disclosed Continuing Connected Transactions.

pUrCHaSe, Sale or reDeMptioN of SHareS

During the year ended 31st December, 2013, the Company has not redeemed any of its Shares and neither the Company nor any 
of its subsidiaries has purchased or sold any of the Company’s Shares.

pre-eMptiVe ri GHtS

No pre-emptive rights exist under Bermudan law in relation to the issue of new shares by the Company.

reSerVeS

Movements during the year in the reserves of the Group and the Company are set out in note 36 to the consolidated accounts 
on pages 137 and 138 of this annual report.

Corporate GoVerNaNCe

The Board and management of the Company are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and the 
Company  considers  that  effective  corporate  governance  makes  an  important  contribution  to  corporate  success  and  to  the 
enhancement of shareholder value.

The Company has adopted its own corporate governance code (the “CG Code”), which in addition to applying the principles 
as set out in the Corporate Governance Code and Corporate Governance Report (the “SEHK Code”) contained in Appendix 
14  to  the  Listing  Rules,  also  incorporates  and  conforms  to  local  and  international  best  practices.  The  CG  Code  sets  out  the 
corporate governance principles applied by the Company and its subsidiaries and is constantly reviewed to ensure transparency, 
accountability  and  independence.  Further  information  on  the  CG  Code  is  set  out  in  the  corporate  governance  report  (the 
“Corporate Governance Report”) on pages 46 to 71 of this annual report.

Throughout  the  year  of  2013,  the  Company  complied  with  the  SEHK  Code,  except  as  set  out  in  the  Corporate  Governance 
Report on page 46.

pUBliC float

Based on information that is publicly available to the Company and within the knowledge of the Directors of the Company, as 
at the date of this report, there is sufficient public float of more than 25% of the Company’s issued Shares as required under the 
Listing Rules.

propertY, plaNt aND eQUipMeNt

Particulars of the movements in property, plant and equipment are set out in note 16 to the consolidated accounts on pages 118 
and 119 of this annual report.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

77

Report of the DirectorsDoNatioNS

Donations made by the Group during the year amount to US$127,000.

aNNUal GeNeral MeetiNG

The Annual General Meeting will be held on 25th April, 2014.

A circular containing, inter alia, (i) a notice convening the Annual General Meeting; (ii) details of the retiring Directors to be 
re-elected at the Annual General Meeting; (iii) the general mandate to authorise the allotment of and otherwise dealing with 
shares of all classes in the capital of the Company and securities convertible into shares and options, warrants or similar rights 
to subscribe for shares or such convertible securities and (iv) the general mandate to authorise the repurchase of the Company’s 
securities together with a proxy form will be distributed to the shareholders of the Company on around 20th March, 2014.

CoMpaNY SeCretarY

The Company Secretary of the Company is Ms. Lee Chee Fun Lammy, Barrister.

aUDitor

The Group’s financial accounts have been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers who will retire at the Annual General Meeting 
and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.

On behalf of the Board
orient overseas (international) limited
tung Chee Chen
Chairman

Hong Kong, 7th March, 2014

78

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Report of the DirectorsSummary of significant accounting policies 
Financial risk management 

Content 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
Balance Sheet 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts
1.  General information 
2. 
3. 
4.  Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
5.  Revenue and segment information 
6.  Operating costs 
7.  Other operating income 
8.  Other operating expenses 
9. 
Employee benefit expense 
10.  Directors’ and management’s emoluments 
11.  Operating profit 
12.  Finance costs 
13.  Taxation 
14.  Earnings per ordinary share 
15.  Dividends 
16.  Property, plant and equipment 
17.  Investment property 
18.  Prepayments of lease premiums 
19.  Subsidiaries 
20.  Jointly controlled entities 
21.  Associated companies 
22.  Intangible assets 
23.  Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities) 
24.  Pension and retirement benefits 
25.  Restricted bank balances 
26.  Available-for-sale financial assets 
27.  Held-to-maturity investments 
28.  Other non-current assets 
29.  Inventories 
30.  Debtors and prepayments 
31.  Amount due from an associated company 
32.  Portfolio investments 
33.  Derivative financial instruments 
34.  Cash and bank balances 
35.  Share capital 
36.  Reserves 
37.  Borrowings 
38.  Creditors and accruals 
39.  Amounts due to jointly controlled entities 
40.  Commitments 
41.  Financial guarantees 
42.  Notes to consolidated cash flow statement 
43.  Approval of accounts 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entities 

Page no.
80
81
82
83
85
86
87

88
88
101
107
108
111
112
112
112
113
115
115
116
117
117
118
120
121
121
122
122
123
124
125
129
130
130
131
131
132
134
134
135
136
137
137
138
140
141
141
143
143
144
145

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

79

Index – Financial Informationto the Shareholders of
orient overseas (international) limited
(Incorporated in Bermuda with limited liability)

We  have  audited  the  consolidated  accounts  of  Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (the  “Company”)  and  its  subsidiaries 
(together  the  “Group”)  set  out  on  pages  81  to  154,  which  comprise  the  consolidated  and  company  balance  sheets  as  at  31st 
December  2013,  and  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account,  the  consolidated  statement  of  comprehensive  income,  the 
consolidated cash flow statement and the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended, and a summary 
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.

DireCtorS’ reSpoNSiBilitY for tHe CoNSoliDateD aCCoUNtS

The  Directors  of  the  Company  are  responsible  for  the  preparation  of  consolidated  accounts  that  give  a  true  and  fair  view  in 
accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants 
and the disclosure requirements of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance, and for such internal control as the Directors determine 
is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error.

aUDitor’S reSpoNSiBilitY

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated accounts based on our audit and to report our opinion solely 
to you, as a body, in accordance with Section 90 of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda and for no other purpose. We do not 
assume responsibility towards or accept liability to any other person for the contents of this report.

We conducted our audit in accordance with Hong Kong Standards on Auditing issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified 
Public Accountants. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated accounts are free from material misstatement.

An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated accounts. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the 
consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control 
relevant to the entity’s preparation of consolidated accounts that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that 
are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal 
control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated accounts.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.

opiNioN

In our opinion, the consolidated accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as 
at 31st December 2013, and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended in accordance with Hong Kong 
Financial Reporting Standards and have been properly prepared in accordance with the disclosure requirements of the Hong 
Kong Companies Ordinance.

pricewaterhouseCoopers
Certified Public Accountants

Hong Kong, 7th March 2014

80

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Independent Auditor’s ReportUS$’000 

Revenue
Operating costs 

Gross profit 
Fair value (loss)/gain from an investment property 
Other operating income 
Other operating expenses 

operating profit 
Finance costs 
Share of profits of jointly controlled entities 
Share of profits of associated companies 

profit before taxation 
Taxation 

Profit for the year 

profit attributable to: 
Equity holders of the Company 
Non-controlling interests 

earnings per ordinary share (US cents) 
Basic and diluted 

Dividends 

Note

2013

5
6

17
7
8

11
12
20
21

13

14

15

6,231,583
(5,772,046)

459,537
(6,923)
63,242
(425,542)

90,314
(41,019)
4,001
13,703

66,999
(19,866)

47,133

47,036
97

47,133

7.5

11,765

Restated
2012

6,459,059
(5,806,718)

652,341
543
117,566
(442,546)

327,904
(32,877)
3,016
12,091

310,134
(13,817)

296,317

295,387
930

296,317

47.2

74,130

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

81

Consolidated Profit and Loss AccountFor the year ended 31st December 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$’000 

profit for the year 

other comprehensive income: 
Item that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss: 
Remeasurement losses on defined benefit schemes 

Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: 
Available-for-sale financial assets 
  – Change in fair value 
  – Assets revaluation reserve realised 
Currency translation adjustments 
  – Foreign subsidiaries 
  – Non-controlling interests 
  – Associated companies 
  – Jointly controlled entities 

Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 

Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax 

total comprehensive income for the year 

total comprehensive income attributable to: 
Equity holders of the Company 
Non-controlling interests 

2013

47,133

Restated
2012

296,317

(13,166)

(8,469)

(5,841)
(112)

2,292
185
3,530
240

294

(9,628)
(936)

728
(5)
192
7

(9,642)

(12,872)

(18,111)

34,261

278,206

33,979
282

34,261

277,281
925

278,206

82

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive IncomeFor the year ended 31st December 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$’000

aSSetS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
Investment property
Prepayments of lease premiums
Jointly controlled entities
Associated companies
Intangible assets
Deferred taxation assets
Pension and retirement assets
Derivative financial instruments
Restricted bank balances
Available-for-sale financial assets
Held-to-maturity investments
Other non-current assets

Current assets
Inventories
Debtors and prepayments
Amount due from an associated company
Portfolio investments
Restricted bank balances
Cash and bank balances

total assets

eQUitY
equity holders
Share capital
Reserves

Non-controlling interests

total equity

31st December
2013

Note

Restated
31st December
2012

Restated
1st January
2012

16
17
18
20
21
22
23
24
33
25
26
27
28

29
30
31
32
25
34

35
36

5,320,251
170,000
9,543
8,674
134,697
42,663
4,072
–
4,407
24,731
149,667
254,572
22,928

4,664,773
165,000
9,793
7,610
111,917
38,916
1,711
10,386
7,022
18,030
154,463
253,956
22,158

4,205,194
160,000
10,249
6,741
75,670
40,014
1,803
16,831
7,983
11,728
130,566
182,092
23,279

6,146,205

5,465,735

4,872,150

150,058
554,852
7,330
217,986
1,441
1,912,346

153,785
543,982
–
205,427
460
1,861,650

150,127
470,594
–
119,180
543
2,098,884

2,844,013

2,765,304

2,839,328

8,990,218

8,231,039

7,711,478

62,579
4,408,228

4,470,807
5,817

62,579
4,419,236

4,481,815
5,778

62,579
4,170,889

4,233,468
6,686

4,476,624

4,487,593

4,240,154

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

83

Consolidated Balance SheetAs at 31st December 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$’000

liaBilitieS
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings
Deferred taxation liabilities
Pension and retirement liabilities
Derivative financial instruments

Current liabilities
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to jointly controlled entities
Borrowings
Current taxation

total liabilities

total equity and liabilities

Net current assets

31st December
2013

Note

Restated
31st December
2012

Restated
1st January
2012

37
23
24
33

38
39
37

3,265,555
55,557
2,409
4,728

2,325,777
57,558
301
7,418

2,233,095
61,590
2,427
10,358

3,328,249

2,391,054

2,307,470

904,624
6,991
268,310
5,420

784,500
5,948
555,753
6,191

709,449
4,053
439,111
11,241

1,185,345

1,352,392

1,163,854

4,513,594

3,743,446

3,471,324

8,990,218

8,231,039

7,711,478

1,658,668

1,412,912

1,675,474

total assets less current liabilities

7,804,873

6,878,647

6,547,624

C C tung
alan tung
Directors

84

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Consolidated Balance SheetAs at 31st December 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$’000 

aSSetS 
Non-current assets 
Subsidiaries 

Current assets 
Prepayments 
Amounts due from subsidiaries 
Restricted bank balances 
Cash and bank balances 

total assets 

eQUitY 
equity holders 
Share capital 
Reserves 

total equity 

liaBilitieS 
Non-current liabilities 
Derivative financial instruments 
Amount due to a subsidiary 

Current liabilities 
Accruals 
Amounts due to subsidiaries 

total liabilities 

total equity and liabilities 

Net current assets 

total assets less current liabilities 

C C tung
alan tung
Directors

Note

2013

2012

19

19
25
34

35
36

33
19

19

169,487

169,487

47
2,194,651
337
41,381

51
1,847,433
337
23,126

2,236,416

1,870,947

2,405,903

2,040,434

62,579
957,062

62,579
1,002,186

1,019,641

1,064,765

2,022
1,133,229

1,135,251

1,367
249,644

251,011

1,386,262

3,524
733,229

736,753

1,647
237,269

238,916

975,669

2,405,903

2,040,434

1,985,405

1,632,031

2,154,892

1,801,518

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

85

Balance SheetAs at 31st December 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$’000 

Cash flows from operating activities 
  Cash generated from operations 

Interest paid 
Interest element of finance lease rental payments 

  Hong Kong profits tax paid 
  Overseas taxes paid 

  Net cash from operating activities 

Cash flows from investing activities 
  Sale of property, plant and equipment 
  Sale of available-for-sale financial assets 
  Redemption on maturity of held-to-maturity investments 
  Purchase of property, plant and equipment 
  Addition of investment property 
  Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets 
  Purchase of held-to-maturity investments 
  Acquisition of additional interest in a subsidiary 
Increase of investment in an associated company 
Increase in portfolio investments 
Increase in amounts due to jointly controlled entities 
  Decrease/(increase) in bank deposits maturing more than 

three months from the date of placement 

Increase in restricted bank balances 
Increase in intangible assets 
(Increase)/decrease in other non-current assets 
Interest received 

  Dividends received from portfolio investments 
  Dividends received from available-for-sale financial assets 
  Distribution from available-for-sale financial assets 
  Dividends received from jointly controlled entities 
  Dividends received from associated companies 
  Capital contribution from non-controlling interests 

Note

42(a)

2013

2012

477,215
(26,728)
(11,860)
(1,357)
(24,092)

413,178

26,722
116
–
(562,183)
(11,923)
–
–
–
(20,201)
(22,387)
1,043

72,330
(7,682)
(12,174)
(770)
36,668
700
7,906
2,323
3,177
7,324
48

460,722
(20,029)
(15,039)
(2,684)
(15,430)

407,540

74,354
793
3,000
(727,662)
(4,457)
(51)
(73,597)
(550)
(29,820)
(68,937)
1,895

(74,966)
(6,219)
(9,761)
1,121
39,298
623
7,937
1,101
2,154
5,856
–

  Net cash used in investing activities 

(478,963)

(857,888)

Cash flows from financing activities 
  Drawdown of loans 
  Repayment of loans 
  Capital element of finance lease rental payments 
  Dividend paid to equity holders of the Company 
  Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 

  Net cash from financing activities 

Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 
Currency translation adjustments 

894,779
(339,189)
(319,430)
(44,987)
(291)

627,125
(204,422)
(254,533)
(29,198)
(1,019)

190,882

137,953

125,097
1,597,018
(2,213)

(312,395)
1,909,154
259

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 

42(c)

1,719,902

1,597,018

86

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Consolidated Cash Flow StatementFor the year ended 31st December 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$’000

Share capital

reserves

Sub-total

equity holders

Non-
controlling 
interests

At 31st December 2011
  As previously reported
  Prior year adjustment (note 2)

  As restated
Total comprehensive income for the year
Transactions with owners
  2012 interim dividend
  Dividends paid to non-controlling 

interests

  Acquisition of additional interest in 

  a subsidiary

62,579
–

62,579
–

4,188,283
(17,394)

4,250,862
(17,394)

4,170,889
277,281

4,233,468
277,281

6,686
–

6,686
925

total

4,257,548
(17,394)

4,240,154
278,206

–

–

–

(29,198)

(29,198)

–

(29,198)

–

264

–

264

(1,019)

(1,019)

(814)

(550)

At 31st December 2012

62,579

4,419,236

4,481,815

5,778

4,487,593

At 31st December 2012
  As previously reported
  Prior year adjustment (note 2)

  As restated
Total comprehensive income for the year
Transactions with owners
  2012 final dividend
  Dividends paid to non-controlling 

interests

  Capital contribution from 
  non-controlling interests

62,579
–

62,579
–

4,446,911
(27,675)

4,509,490
(27,675)

4,419,236
33,979

4,481,815
33,979

5,778
–

5,778
282

4,515,268
(27,675)

4,487,593
34,261

–

–

–

(44,987)

(44,987)

–

(44,987)

–

–

–

–

(291)

(291)

48

48

at 31st December 2013

62,579

4,408,228

4,470,807

5,817

4,476,624

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

87

Consolidated Statement of Changes in EquityFor the year ended 31st December 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  General information

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (“the  Company”)  is  a  limited  liability  company  incorporated  in  Bermuda.  The 
address of its registered office is 33rd floor, Harbour Centre, No. 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong.

The  principal  activity  of  the  Company  is  investment  holding  and  the  activities  of  its  principal  subsidiaries,  associated 
companies and jointly controlled entities are set out on pages 145 to 154 of the accounts.

The Company has its listing on the Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.

2.  Summary of significant accounting policies

The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated accounts are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless otherwise stated.

2.1  Basis of preparation

The  consolidated  accounts  have  been  prepared  in  accordance  with  Hong  Kong  Financial  Reporting  Standards 
(“HKFRS”). They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investment 
property, available-for-sale financial assets, portfolio investments and derivative financial instruments which are carried 
at fair value.

The preparation of accounts in conformity with HKFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas 
involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the 
consolidated accounts, are disclosed in note 4.

the adoption of revised HKfrS

In 2013, the Group adopted the new and amendments of HKFRS below, which are relevant to its operations.

New standards and amendments

HKAS 1 Amendment
HKAS 19 Amendment
HKAS 27 (2011)
HKAS 28 (2011)
HKFRS 7 Amendment

HKFRS 10
HKFRS 10 Amendment
HKFRS 11
HKFRS 11 Amendment
HKFRS 12
HKFRS 12 Amendment
HKFRS 13
HKFRSs

Presentation of Financial Statements
Employee Benefits
Separate Financial Statements
Associates and Joint Ventures
Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and 
  Financial Liabilities
Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements – Transition Guidance
Joint Arrangements
Joint Arrangements – Transition Guidance
Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities – Transition Guidance
Fair Value Measurements
Annual Improvements 2009-2011 Reporting Cycle

Excepted for HKAS 19 Amendment and HKFRS 13 mentioned below, there are no other new standards, amendments 
and improvements that are effective for the first time for 2013 that would have a material impact on the Group.

88

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts  
 
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

the adoption of revised HKfrS (Continued)

HKAS 19 Amendment introduces a number of amendments to the accounting for defined benefit schemes. Among 
them,  HKAS  19  Amendment  eliminates  the  “corridor  method”  under  which  the  recognition  of  actuarial  gains  and 
losses relating to defined benefit schemes could be deferred and recognised in profit or loss over the expected average 
remaining  service  lives  of  employees.  Under  the  revised  standard,  all  actuarial  gains  and  losses  are  required  to  be 
recognised immediately in other comprehensive income. HKAS 19 Amendment also changed the basis for determining 
income from plan assets from expected return to interest income calculated at the liability discount rate, and requires 
immediate recognition of past service cost, whether vested or not.

As  a  result  of  the  adoption  of  HKAS  19  Amendment,  the  Group  has  changed  its  accounting  policy  with  respect  to 
defined benefit schemes, for which the corridor method was previously applied. This change in accounting policy has 
been applied retrospectively by restating the balances at 1st January 2012 and 31st December 2012, and the result for 
the financial year ended 31st December 2012 is as follows:

Consolidated profit and loss account for the year 
  ended 31st December 2012:
  Defined benefit retirement schemes income/(expense)
  Taxation
  Profit for the year

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for 

the year ended 31st December 2012:
  Total comprehensive income for the year

Consolidated balance sheet as at 31st December 2012:
  Pension and retirement assets
  Total assets
  Deferred taxation liabilities
  Total liabilities
  Reserves
  Total equity

Consolidated balance sheet as at 1st january 2012:
  Pension and retirement assets
  Total assets
  Deferred taxation liabilities
  Total liabilities
  Reserves
  Total equity

effect of 
adopting 
HKaS 19 
amendment
US$’000

as previously 
reported
US$’000

as restated
US$’000

83
(13,562)
297,289

(717)
(255)
(972)

(634)
(13,817)
(296,317)

288,487

(10,281)

278,206

44,427
8,265,080
63,924
3,749,812
4,446,911
4,515,268

38,452
7,733,099
65,817
3,475,551
4,188,283
4,257,548

(34,041)
(34,041)
(6,366)
(6,366)
(27,675)
(27,675)

(21,621)
(21,621)
(4,227)
(4,227)
(17,394)
(17,394)

10,386
8,231,039
57,558
3,743,446
4,419,236
4,487,593

16,831
7,711,478
61,590
3,471,324
4,170,889
4,240,154

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

89

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

the adoption of revised HKfrS (Continued)

The  effect  of  the  change  in  this  accounting  policy  on  the  cash  flow  statement  and  on  earnings  per  share  was  not 
significant.

HKFRS 13 “Fair Value Measurements” measurement and disclosure requirements are applicable for the Group for the 
year ended 31st December 2013.

Standard, amendments and interpretation to existing standards that are relevant but not yet effective 
to the Group

New standard, amendments and interpretation

HKAS 32 Amendment

HKAS 36 Amendment
HK(IFRIC) – Int 21
HKFRSs
HKFRSs
HKFRS 7 Amendment

HKFRS 9

Financial Instruments: Presentation – Offsetting Financial 
  Assets and Financial Liabilities
Recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets
Levies
Annual Improvements 2010-2012 Reporting Cycle
Annual Improvements 2011-2013 Reporting Cycle
Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Mandatory Effective 
  Date of HKFRS 9 and Transitional Disclosures
Financial Instruments

effective for 
accounting periods 
beginning on or after

1st January 2014

1st January 2014
1st January 2014
1st July 2014
1st July 2014
Not yet determined*

Not yet determined*

* 

For those in connection with HKFRS 9, the mandatory effective date will be determined when the outstanding phases of HKFRS 9 are 

finalised.

The Group has not early adopted the above standard, amendments and interpretation and is not yet in a position to 
state whether substantial changes to the Group’s accounting policies and presentation of accounts will result.

2.2  Consolidation

The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 31st December.

The consolidated accounts also include the Group’s attributable share of post-acquisition results and reserves of its 
jointly controlled entities and associated companies.

(a)  Subsidiaries

A subsidiary is an entity (including a structured entity) over which the Group has control. The Group controls 
an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity 
and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are consolidated from 
the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.

The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations. The consideration 
transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred 
and the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset 
or  liability  resulting  from  a  contingent  consideration  arrangement.  Acquisition-related  costs  are  expensed  as 
incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination 
are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the Group 
recognises  any  non-controlling  interest  in  the  acquiree  either  at  fair  value  or  at  the  non-controlling  interest’s 
proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets.

90

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.2  Consolidation (Continued)

(a)  Subsidiaries (Continued)

The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the 
acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net 
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised 
and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in 
the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Inter-company  transactions,  balances  and  unrealised  gains  on  transactions  between  group  companies  are 
eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of 
the asset transferred.

In the Company’s balance sheet, the investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment 
losses. The results of subsidiaries are recognised by the Company on the basis of dividend received and receivable.

(b)  transactions with non-controlling interests

Transactions  with  non-controlling  interests  that  do  not  result  in  a  loss  of  control  are  accounted  for  as  equity 
transactions – that is, as transactions with the owners of the subsidiary in their capacity as owners. The difference 
between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary 
is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.

When the Group ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with 
the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the 
purposes of subsequent accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In 
addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted 
for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.

(c)  joint arrangements

Joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights 
and obligations of each investor. The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined 
them to be joint ventures. Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.

Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are initially recognised at cost and adjusted 
thereafter  to  recognise  the  Group’s  share  of  the  post-acquisition  profits  or  losses  and  movements  in  other 
comprehensive income. When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the 
joint ventures (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment 
in the joint ventures), the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made 
payments on behalf of the joint ventures.

Unrealised  gains  on  transactions  between  the  Group  and  its  joint  ventures  are  eliminated  to  the  extent  of  the 
Group’s interest in the joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence 
of an impairment of the asset transferred.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

91

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.2  Consolidation (Continued)

(d)  associated companies

Associated companies are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally 
accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associated companies 
are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investments 
in associated companies include goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) identified on acquisition.

If  the  ownership  interest  in  an  associate  is  reduced  but  significant  influence  is  retained,  only  a  proportionate 
share of the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where 
appropriate.

The Group’s share of its associated companies’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the consolidated 
profit and loss account, and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves. The 
cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment. When the 
Group’s share of losses in an associated company equals or exceeds its interest in the associated company, including 
any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations 
or made payments on behalf of the associated company.

Profits and losses resulting from upstream and downstream transactions between the Group and its associate are 
recognised in the Group’s financial statements only to the extent of unrelated investor’s interests in the associates. 
Unrealised  losses  are  also  eliminated  unless  the  transaction  provides  evidence  of  an  impairment  of  the  asset 
transferred. Accounting policies of associated companies have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency 
with the policies adopted by the Group.

2.3  property, plant and equipment

All property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less depreciation and impairment losses. Historical cost 
includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Subsequent costs are included in the 
asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic 
benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other 
repairs and maintenance are charged to the consolidated profit and loss account during the financial period in which 
they are incurred.

No depreciation is provided for assets under construction and freehold land.

Vehicles, computer and other equipment include terminal equipment and improvements.

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their costs to 
their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows:

Container vessels
Containers
Chassis
Terminal equipment and improvements
Freehold buildings
Leasehold buildings
Leasehold improvements
Furnitures, vehicles, computers and other equipment

25 years
5 to 12 years
10 to 12 years
10 to 15 years
Not exceeding 75 years
Over period of the lease
Over period of the lease
3 to 15 years

92

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.3  property, plant and equipment (Continued)

The residual values of the assets and their useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet 
date.

The carrying amount of an asset is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount of the 
asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.

Gains and losses on disposals are determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amounts of the assets and are dealt with in the consolidated profit and loss account.

2.4  investment property

Property that is held for long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the 
companies in the Group, is classified as investment property. Investment property comprises freehold land, land held 
under operating leases and buildings held under finance leases. Land held under operating leases are classified and 
accounted  for  as  investment  property  when  the  rest  of  the  definition  of  investment  property  is  met.  The  operating 
lease is accounted for as if it were a finance lease.

Investment property is initially measured at cost, including related transaction costs and where applicable borrowing 
costs. After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair value. Fair value is based on valuation carried 
out semi-annually by an independent external valuer. Changes in fair values are recognised in the consolidated profit 
and loss account.

2.5  Vessel repairs and surveys

Upon acquisition of a vessel, the components of the vessel which are required to be replaced at the next dry-docking 
are identified and their costs are depreciated over the period to the next estimated dry-docking date, usually ranging 
from three to five years. Costs incurred on subsequent dry-docking of vessels are capitalised and depreciated over the 
period to the next estimated dry-docking date. When significant dry-docking costs incurred prior to the expiry of the 
depreciation period, the remaining costs of the previous dry-docking are written off immediately.

2.6  intangible assets

(a)  Goodwill

Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net 
identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary, associated company or jointly controlled entity at the effective date 
of acquisition.

Goodwill on acquisition of a foreign operation is treated as an asset of the foreign operation.

Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiaries is retained at the carrying amount as an intangible asset. Goodwill 
arising on acquisition of associated companies and jointly controlled entities is included within investments in 
associated companies and jointly controlled entities respectively and is tested for impairment as part of overall 
balance. Separately recognised goodwill is subject to impairment review annually and when there are indications 
that the carrying value may not be recoverable. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Group’s 
share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired company, the difference is recognised in the consolidated profit 
and loss account.

The  profit  or  loss  on  disposal  of  subsidiaries,  associated  companies  or  jointly  controlled  entities  is  calculated 
by reference to the net assets at the date of disposal including the attributable amount of goodwill but does not 
include any attributable goodwill previously eliminated against reserves.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

93

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.6  intangible assets (Continued)

(b)  Computer software

Costs  associated  with  maintaining  computer  software  programmes  are  recognised  as  an  expense  as  incurred. 
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by 
the Group, and that will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised 
as intangible assets. Direct costs include the software development employee costs and an appropriate portion 
of relevant overheads.

Computer  software  development  costs  recognised  as  assets  are  stated  at  cost  less  accumulated  amortisation. 
Amortisation is calculated on the straight-line basis over their estimated useful life of five years.

2.7  impairment of investments in subsidiaries and non-financial assets

Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation, and are at least tested annually for impairment. 
Assets  that  are  subject  to  amortisation  are  reviewed  for  impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which 
the  carrying  amount  of  the  asset  exceeds  its  recoverable  amount.  The  recoverable  amount  is  the  higher  of  the  fair 
value of an asset less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the 
lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash generating units). Non-financial assets other 
than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.

Impairment testing of the investments in subsidiaries is required upon receiving dividends from these investments if 
the dividend exceeds the total comprehensive income of the subsidiary in the period the dividend is declared or if the 
carrying amount of the investment in the separate account exceeds the carrying amount in the consolidated accounts 
of the investee’s net assets including goodwill.

2.8  investments

The Group classifies its investments into the following categories: portfolio investments, loans and receivables, held-
to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which 
the investments were acquired. Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition and 
re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.

(a)  portfolio investments

Portfolio investments include financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through profit or 
loss at inception. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in 
the short term or if so designated by management. Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they 
are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within 12 months from the balance sheet date.

(b)  loans and receivables

Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted 
in an active market. They arise when the Group provides money or services directly to a debtor with no intention 
of trading the receivable. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after 
the balance sheet date; which are classified as non-current assets.

94

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.8  investments (Continued)

(c)  Held-to-maturity investments

Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed 
maturities that the Group’s management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. If the Group were 
to sell other than an insignificant amount of held-to-maturity investments, the whole category would be reclassified 
as  available-for-sale  financial  assets.  Held-to-maturity  investments  are  included  in  non-current  assets,  except 
for those with maturities less than 12 months from the balance sheet date; which are classified as current assets.

(d)  available-for-sale financial assets

Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified 
in any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of 
the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.

Interest on available-for-sale financial assets calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the 
profit and loss account as part of other income. Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised 
in the profit and loss account as part of other income when the Group’s right to receive payments is established.

(e)  recognition and measurement

Regular  way  purchases  and  sales  of  investments  are  recognised  on  trade-date  –  the  date  on  which  the  Group 
commits to purchase or sell the asset. Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for 
all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss. Investments are derecognised when the rights 
to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred 
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Available-for-sale financial assets and portfolio investments are 
subsequently carried at fair value. Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method less impairment losses, if any.

Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the portfolio investments are 
included in the consolidated profit and loss account in the period in which they arise. Unrealised gains and losses 
arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets 
are recognised in other comprehensive income. When securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets are 
sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the consolidated profit and loss account 
as gains and losses from available-for-sale financial assets.

The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices. If the market for a financial asset is not active 
(and for unlisted securities), the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques. These include the use 
of recent arm’s length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash 
flow analysis, and option pricing models refined to reflect the issuer’s specific circumstances.

The  Group  may  choose  to  reclassify  a  non-derivative  trading  financial  asset  out  of  the  portfolio  investments 
category  if  the  financial  asset  is  no  longer  held  for  the  purpose  of  selling  it  in  the  near  term.  Financial  assets 
other than loans and receivables are permitted to be reclassified out of the held for trading category only in rare 
circumstances arising from a single event that is unusual and highly unlikely to recur in the near term. In addition, 
the Group may choose to reclassify financial assets that would meet the definition of loans and receivables or 
held-to-maturity investments out of the portfolio investments or available-for-sale financial assets categories if 
the Group has the intention and ability to hold these financial assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity 
at the date of reclassification.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

95

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.8  investments (Continued)

(e)  recognition and measurement (Continued)

Reclassifications  are  made  at  fair  value  as  of  the  reclassification  date.  Fair  value  becomes  the  new  cost  or 
amortised cost as applicable, and no reversals of fair value gains or losses recorded before reclassification date are 
subsequently made. Effective interest rates for financial assets reclassified to loans and receivables and held-to-
maturity categories are determined at the reclassification date. Further increases in estimates of cash flows adjust 
effective interest rates prospectively.

The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group 
of  financial  assets  is  impaired.  In  the  case  of  equity  securities  classified  as  available-for-sale  financial  assets,  a 
significant  or  prolonged  decline  in  the  fair  value  of  the  securities  below  its  cost  is  considered  in  determining 
whether the securities are impaired. If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative 
loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss 
on that financial asset previously recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account is removed from equity 
and  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account.  Impairment  losses  recognised  in  the  consolidated 
profit and loss account on equity instruments are not reversed through the consolidated profit and loss account.

Impairment  on  held-to-maturity  investments  is  considered  at  both  an  individual  and  collective  level.  The 
individual  impairment  allowance  is  measured  as  the  difference  between  the  asset’s  carrying  amount  and  the 
present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at asset’s original effective interest rate, where the effect 
of discounting is material.

For loans and receivables category, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been 
incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is 
reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account. If a loan or held-
to-maturity investment has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the 
current effective interest rate determined under the contract. As a practical expedient, the Group may measure 
impairment on the basis of an instrument’s fair value using an observable market price.

(f)  offsetting financial instruments

Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally 
enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the 
asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

2.9  inventories

Inventories mainly comprise bunkers and consumable stores. Cost is calculated on weighted average basis. Inventories 
are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses.

2.10  Debtors

Debtors are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of debtors is established when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. The 
amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future 
cash  flows,  discounted  at  the  effective  interest  rate.  The  amount  of  the  provision  is  recognised  in  the  consolidated 
profit and loss account.

If collection of debtors is expected in one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they 
are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets.

96

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.11 Cash and cash equivalents

Cash  and  cash  equivalents  include  cash  in  hand,  deposits  held  at  call  with  banks  with  original  maturities  of  three 
months or less and net of bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the 
consolidated balance sheet.

2.12 Share capital

Ordinary shares are classified as equity.

Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from 
the proceeds.

2.13 Creditors

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business 
from suppliers. Creditors are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal 
operating cycle of the business if longer. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.

Trade creditors are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.

2.14 Borrowings

Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated 
at amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised 
in the consolidated profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.

Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the 
liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.

Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it 
is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down 
occurs. To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee 
is capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.

2.15 Current and deferred taxation

The tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss 
account, except to the extent that it relates to item recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In 
this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.

The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet  date  in  the  countries  where  the  Company’s  subsidiaries,  jointly  controlled  entities  and  associated  companies 
operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect 
to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate 
on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.

Deferred taxation is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases 
of  assets  and  liabilities  and  their  carrying  amounts  in  the  consolidated  accounts.  However,  if  the  deferred  taxation 
arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the 
time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred taxation is 
determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected 
to apply when the related deferred taxation asset is realised or the deferred taxation liability is settled.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

97

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.15 Current and deferred taxation (Continued)

Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be utilised.

Deferred taxation is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associated companies 
and jointly controlled entities, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the 
Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
against current  tax  liabilities  and  when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities related to income taxes levied 
by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to 
settle the balances on a net basis.

2.16 employee benefits

(a)  pension obligations

The  Group  operates  a  number  of  defined  benefit  and  defined  contribution  pension  and  retirement  benefit 
schemes in the main countries in which the Group operates. These schemes are generally funded by payments 
from employees and by relevant group companies, taking into account of the recommendations of independent 
qualified actuaries where required.

A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan. Typically defined benefit plans 
define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or 
more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.

Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, 
usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.

The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit 
obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected expected benefit payments. The 
present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows 
using interest rates of corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, 
and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. In countries where 
there is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.

Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged 
or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.

Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income.

Contributions under the defined contribution schemes are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are 
due and are reduced by contributions forfeited by those employees who leave the scheme prior to vesting fully in 
the contributions. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction 
in the future payments is available.

(b)  Bonus plans

The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses, based on a formula that takes into consideration 
the profit attributable to the Company’s shareholders after certain adjustments. The Group recognises a provision 
where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.

98

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.16 employee benefits (Continued)

(c)  employee leave entitlements

Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised when they accrue to employees. A provision is made for 
the estimated liability for annual leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the balance sheet date. 
Employee entitlements to sick leave and maternity leave are not recognised until the time of leave.

2.17 provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated.

Where  there  are  a  number  of  similar  obligations,  the  likelihood  that  an  outflow  will  be  required  in  settlement  is 
determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an 
outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.

2.18 insurance contracts

The  Group  regards  its  financial  guarantees  provided  to  its  subsidiaries  as  insurance  contracts.  The  Group  assesses 
at  each  balance  sheet  date  the  liabilities  under  its  insurance  contracts  using  current  estimates  of  future  cash  flows. 
Changes in carrying amount of these insurance liabilities are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

2.19 Segment information

Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating 
decision-maker.  The  chief  operating  decision-maker,  who  is  responsible  for  allocating  resources  and  assessing 
performance of the operating segments and making strategic decisions, has been identified as the Board of Directors.

2.20 foreign currency translation

(a)  functional and presentation currency

Items included in the accounts of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates (the “functional currency”). The consolidated accounts are 
presented in US dollar, which is the Company’s functional currency and the Group’s presentation currency.

(b)  transactions and balances

Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at 
the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions 
and  from  the  translation  at  year-end  exchange  rates  of  monetary  assets  and  liabilities  denominated  in  foreign 
currencies are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Translation  differences  on  non-monetary  items,  such  as  equities  held  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss,  are 
reported as part of the fair value gain or loss. Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities 
classified as available-for-sale financial assets, are included in the assets revaluation reserve in other comprehensive 
income.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

99

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.20 foreign currency translation (Continued)

(c)  Group companies

The results and financial position of all the group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary 
economy)  that  have  a  functional  currency  different  from  the  presentation  currency  are  translated  into  the 
presentation currency as follows:

(i) 

assets  and  liabilities  for  each  balance  sheet  presented  are  translated  at  the  closing  rate  at  the  date  of  that 
balance sheet;

(ii) 

income  and  expenses  for  each  profit  and  loss  account  are  translated  at  average  exchange  rates  (unless 
this  average  is  not  a  reasonable  approximation  of  the  cumulative  effect  of  the  rates  prevailing  on  the 
transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rates prevailing on the dates of 
the transactions); and

(iii)  all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.

On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of 
borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to other comprehensive 
income. When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss 
account as part of the gain or loss on sale.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of 
the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.

2.21 revenue recognition

Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of services, net of value-added 
tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. The Group recognises revenue when the amount 
of  revenue  can  be  reliably  measured,  it  is  probable  that  future  economic  benefits  will  flow  to  the  entity  and  when 
specific criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities as described below. Revenue is recognised as follows:

(a)  Freight  revenues  from  the  operation  of  the  container  transport  are  recognised  on  a  percentage  of  completion 

basis, which is determined on the time proportion method of each individual vessel voyage.

(b)  Revenues from logistics business are recognised when services are rendered or on an accrual basis.

(c)  Revenues from the operation of container terminals and provision of other services are recognised when services 

are rendered or on an accrual basis.

(d)  Rental income under operating leases is recognised over the periods of the respective leases on a straight-line 

basis.

(e) 

Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.

(f)  Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.

100

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.22 leases

(a)  operating lease

Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified 
as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the lessor, are 
charged to the consolidated profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.

The up-front prepayments made for the leasehold land and land use rights are expensed in the consolidated profit 
and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease or where there is impairment, the impairment 
is expensed in the consolidated profit and loss account.

(b)  finance lease

Leases of assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance 
leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased assets 
and the present value of the minimum lease payments. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and 
finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the balance outstanding. The corresponding rental obligations, 
net of finance charges, are included in current and non-current borrowings. The interest element of the finance 
cost is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account over the lease period so as to produce a constant 
periodic rate of interest on the remaining balances of the liability for each period.

2.23 Borrowing costs

Borrowing costs are expensed in the consolidated profit and loss account in the period in which they are incurred, 
except to the extent that they are capitalised as being directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production 
of a qualifying asset which necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale.

The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when expenditure for the 
asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for its 
intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the 
activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.

2.24 Derivative financial instruments

Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into 
and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. Changes in fair value are recognised in the consolidated profit 
and loss account.

2.25 Dividend distribution

Dividend distribution to the Company’s equity holders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s and the Company’s 
accounts in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s Directors/equity holders.

3.  financial risk management

3.1  financial risk factors

The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: foreign exchange risk, price risk, credit risk, liquidity 
risk  and  cash  flow  and  fair  value  interest-rate  risk.  The  Group’s  overall  risk  management  policy  focuses  on  the 
unpredictability  of  financial  markets  and  seeks  to  minimise  potential  adverse  effects  on  the  Group’s  financial 
performance.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

101

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.1  financial risk factors (Continued)

The Group has regularly monitored current and expected liquidity requirements against the cash on hand, expected 
net operating cash flow, committed facilities and its compliance with loan covenants, to ensure the Group’s liquidity 
requirements can be met in the short and longer term.

The Group has paid ongoing attention on credit quality of counterparties, in particular major customers and financial 
institutions with relationship in terms of debt securities, derivatives and cash transactions. Credit qualities of respective 
counterparties are disclosed in respective notes to the consolidated accounts.

(a)  foreign exchange risk

The  Group  operates  internationally  and  is  exposed  to  foreign  exchange  risk  arising  from  various  currency 
exposures,  primarily  with  respect  to  fluctuation  in  the  exchange  rates  of  foreign  currencies  to  the  US  dollar. 
Foreign currency exposures are covered by forward contracts and options whenever appropriate.

Income and expenses from container transport and logistics activities are mainly denominated in US dollar and 
in various currencies, mainly including Euro, Canadian dollar, Japanese yen and Renminbi.

To limit currency exposure, the US dollar based activities are financed primarily by loans in US dollar. With all 
other variables held constant, an average change in the US dollar exchange rate of 1%, compared with all other 
non-US dollar related currencies, has a positive/negative effect on the results for 2013 of approximately US$10.4 
million (2012: US$13.1 million).

(b)  price risk

The container transport and logistics activities are sensitive to economic fluctuations. The Group is exposed to 
freight rate risk. The Group’s revenue will increase/decrease by US$54.3 million (2012: US$56.3 million) for 1% 
increase/reduction of the average container freight rates with all other variables held constant.

The Group is exposed to bunker price risk for its container transport and logistics activities. Bunker cost is one of 
the major cost components of container transport and logistics activities. An increase in bunker price can only be 
partially compensated through freight surcharge bunker price adjustment. With all other variables held constant, 
the operating cost will be increased by approximately US$1.8 million (2012: US$1.8 million) for one US dollar 
increase in bunker price per ton.

The Group is also exposed to equity/debt securities price risk because of investments held by the Group include 
available-for-sale financial assets or portfolio investments which are accounted at fair value through profit or loss. 
To manage its price risk arising from investments in equity/debt securities, the Group diversifies its portfolio. If 
the prices of the respective quoted equity/debt securities of the Group had been increased/decreased by 1% and all 
other variables held constant, the profit after taxation and the other comprehensive income of the Group for the 
year ended 31st December 2013 would increase/decrease by US$2.1 million (2012: US$2.0 million) and US$0.4 
million (2012: US$0.4 million) respectively as a result of the changes in fair value of equity/debt securities under 
portfolio investments and equity securities classified as available-for-sale.

(c)  Credit risk

The  Group  has  no  significant  concentration  of  credit  risk.  It  has  policies  in  place  to  ensure  that  services  are 
provided to customers with an appropriate credit history.

The  extent  of  the  Group’s  credit  exposure  is  represented  by  the  aggregate  balance  of  cash  and  bank  balances, 
portfolio investments, held-to-maturity investments, derivative financial instruments, restricted bank balances, 
other deposits and debtors and prepayments. The credit quality of these exposures is disclosed in relevant notes 
to the consolidated accounts.

102

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.1  financial risk factors (Continued)

(d)  liquidity risk

Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents, the availability of 
funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. 
The Group aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping sufficient cash and cash equivalents and readily 
realisable liquid assets.

Surplus cash held by the operating entities over and above balance required for working capital management is 
transferred to the Group Treasury. Group Treasury invests surplus cash in interest bearing current accounts, time 
deposits,  money  market  deposits  and  marketable  securities,  choosing  instruments  with  appropriate  maturities 
or  sufficient  liquidity  to  provide  sufficient  head-room.  At  the  reporting  date,  the  Group  held  liquid  assets  of 
US$2,131.8 million (2012: US$2,106.2 million) that are expected to readily generate cash inflows for managing 
liquidity risk.

The  table  below  analyses  the  Group’s  and  the  Company’s  non-derivative  financial  liabilities  and  net-settled 
derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet 
date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash 
flows. Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.

US$’000

Group

at 31st December 2013
Borrowings
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to jointly controlled entities
Derivative financial instruments

At 31st December 2012
Borrowings
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to jointly controlled entities
Derivative financial instruments

Company

at 31st December 2013
Accruals
Amounts due to subsidiaries
Derivative financial instruments

At 31st December 2012
Accruals
Amounts due to subsidiaries
Derivative financial instruments

less than
1 year

Between 1
and 2 years

Between 2
and 5 years

over
5 years

313,761
904,624
6,991
2,657

605,847
784,500
5,948
4,224

395,103
–
–
668

213,074
–
–
736

1,255,011
–
–
1,732

1,882,274
–
–
–

945,390
–
–
2,781

1,347,027
–
–
–

1,367
249,644
2,022

–
1,133,229
–

1,647
237,269
3,524

–
733,229
–

–
–
–

–
–
–

–
–
–

–
–
–

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

103

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.1  financial risk factors (Continued)

(e)  Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk

The Group’s income and operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates. 
The Group has a policy to place surplus funds with creditable financial institutions which offer the best return 
for the Group on a short-term basis.

There are no material fixed rate receivables or borrowings in the Group.

The  Group  is  exposed  to  cash  flow  interest  rate  risk  through  the  impact  of  rate  changes  on  interest  bearing 
bank  balances  and  borrowings.  These  exposures  are  partially  managed  through  the  use  of  derivative  financial 
instruments such as interest rate swaps.

At 31st December 2013, if interest rates had been 0.1% higher/lower with all other variables held constant, post-
tax profit for the year would have been US$1.6 million lower/higher (2012: US$1.1 million lower/higher), mainly 
as a result of higher/lower net interest expense on the net floating rate borrowings.

3.2  Capital risk management

The  Group’s  objectives  when  managing  capital  are  to  safeguard  the  Group’s  ability  to  continue  as  a  going  concern 
in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital 
structure to reduce the cost of capital.

In  order  to  maintain  or  adjust  the  capital  structure,  the  Group  may  adjust  the  amount  of  dividends  paid  to  equity 
holders, return capital to equity holders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.

Consistent  with  others  in  the  industry,  the  Group  monitors  capital  on  the  basis  of  the  gearing  ratio.  This  ratio  is 
calculated as net debt divided by total equity. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including “current and non-
current borrowings” as shown in the consolidated balance sheet) less restricted bank balances, cash and bank balances 
and portfolio investments.

The gearing ratios at 31st December 2013 and 2012 were as follows:

US$’000

Total borrowings (note 37)
Less:  Restricted bank balances (note 25)
Cash and bank balances (note 34)
Portfolio investments (note 32)

Net debt

Total equity

Gearing ratio

2013

(3,533,865)
26,172
1,912,346
217,986

Restated
2012

(2,881,530)
18,490
1,861,650
205,427

(1,377,361)

(795,963)

4,476,624

4,487,593

0.31

0.18

The change in net debt position results primarily from the purchase of property, plant and equipment.

104

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts  
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.3  fair value estimation 

The  financial  instruments  that  are  measured  in  the  balance  sheet  at  fair  value,  require  disclosure  of  fair  value 
measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy:

•  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).

• 

• 

Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
(that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2).

Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 
3).

The following table presents the Group’s financial assets and liability that are measured at fair value at 31st December 
2013.

US$’000

level 1

level 2

level 3

total

assets
Portfolio investments
  – Equity securities
  – Debt securities
  – Funds and other investments
Derivative financial instruments
Available-for-sale financial assets
  – Listed equity securities
  – Other investments

24,322
187,314
–
–

37,521
–

–
148
6,202
4,407

–
–
–
–

–
–

–
112,146

24,322
187,462
6,202
4,407

37,521
112,146

total assets

249,157

10,757

112,146

372,060

liability
Derivative financial instruments

total liabilities

–

–

4,728

4,728

–

–

4,728

4,728

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

105

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.3  fair value estimation (Continued)

The following table presents the Group’s financial assets and liability that are measured at fair value at 31st December 
2012.

US$’000

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

assets
Portfolio investments
  – Equity securities
  – Debt securities
  – Funds and other investments
Derivative financial instruments
Available-for-sale financial assets
  – Listed equity securities
  – Other investments

24,875
175,292
–
–

39,129
–

–
141
5,119
7,022

–
–

–
–
–
–

–
115,334

24,875
175,433
5,119
7,022

39,129
115,334

total assets

239,296

12,282

115,334

366,912

liability
Derivative financial instruments

total liabilities

–

–

7,418

7,418

–

–

7,418

7,418

There were no transfers among levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year.

The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet 
date. A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, 
industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market 
transactions on an arm’s length basis. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current 
bid price. These instruments are included in level 1. Instruments included in level 1 comprise portfolio investments 
and listed equity securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets.

The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) 
is determined by using valuation techniques. These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data 
where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair 
value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2. Instruments in level 2 include the derivative 
financial instruments.

If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.

Specific valuation techniques used to value level 2 and 3 financial instruments include:

• 

• 

• 

Dealer quotes.

The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on 
observable yield curves.

The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance 
sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value.

•  Marketability discount rate derived from management’s judgement is applied to estimate the fair value of unlisted 

equity security classified as available-for-sale financial asset.

106

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts  
 
3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.3  fair value estimation (Continued)

There were no changes in valuation techniques during the year.

Instruments included in level 3 mainly comprise unlisted equity securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets.

The following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments.

US$’000

Opening balance
Additions
Disposals
Fair value change recognised in other comprehensive income

Closing balance

2013

115,334
–
(116)
(3,072)

2012

129,861
51
(701)
(13,877)

112,146

115,334

For  level  3  instruments,  the  discount  rate  used  to  compute  the  fair  value  is  15%.  The  higher  the  discount  rate,  the 
lower the fair value.

4.  Critical accounting estimates and judgements

Estimates and judgements used in preparing the accounts are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience 
and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.

The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 
financial year are discussed below.

(a)  income taxes

The  Group  is  subject  to  income  taxes  in  numerous  jurisdictions.  Significant  judgement  is  required  in  determining 
the worldwide provision for income taxes. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax 
determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is 
different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax 
provisions in the period in which such determination is made.

Recognition of deferred tax assets, which principally relate to tax losses, depends on the management’s expectation 
of  future  taxable  profit  that  will  be  available  against  which  tax  losses  can  be  utilised.  The  outcome  of  their  actual 
utilisation may be different.

(b)  investment property

The fair value of investment property is determined by an independent valuer on an open market for existing use basis. 
In making the judgement, consideration has been given to assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions 
existing at the balance sheet date and appropriate capitalisation rates. Management has critically assessed these estimates 
and has regularly compared to actual market data and, if applicable actual transactions entered into by the Group.

(c)  property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Management determines the estimated useful lives and residual values for the Group’s property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets. Management will revise the depreciation charge where useful lives and residual values are different 
from previously estimated.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

107

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts  
 
 
 
4.  Critical accounting estimates and judgements (Continued)

(c)  property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (Continued)

Management determines the estimated useful lives and related depreciation expenses for the vessels and containers. 
Management  estimates  useful  lives  of  its  vessels  and  containers  by  reference  to  expected  usage  of  the  vessels  and 
containers,  expected  repair  and  maintenance,  and  technical  or  commercial  obsolescence  arising  from  changes  or 
improvements in the market. It could change significantly as a result of the changes of these factors.

Were the useful lives of vessels and containers to differ by 10% from management estimates with all other variables 
held constant, it is estimated that depreciation expense would increase or decrease by approximately US$47.6 million 
or US$37.8 million respectively (2012: US$21.9 million or US$18.0 million respectively).

The Group’s management determines the residual values for its vessels and containers. This estimate is based on the 
current scrap values of steels in an active market at each measurement date since management decides to dispose of 
the fully depreciated vessels and containers as scrap steels. Depreciation expense would increase where the residual 
values are less than previously estimated values.

Were the residual values of containers and vessels to differ by 10% from management estimates with all other variables 
held constant, it is estimated that depreciation expense would increase or decrease by approximately US$12.5 million 
or US$12.5 million respectively (2012: US$9.9 million or US$8.9 million respectively).

(d)  provision of operating cost

Operating costs, which mainly comprise cargo, vessel and voyage costs, equipment repositioning cost and terminal 
operating cost. Invoices in relation to these expenses are received approximately up to four months after the expenses 
have been incurred. Consequently, recognition of operating costs is based on the rendering of services as well as the 
latest tariff agreed with vendors.

If the actual expenses of a voyage differ from the estimated expenses, this will have an impact on operating cost in 
future periods. Historically, the Group has not experienced significant deviation from the actual expenses.

(e)  Held-to-maturity investments

The  Group  follows  HKAS  39  guidance  on  classifying  non-derivative  financial  assets  with  fixed  or  determinable 
payments and fixed maturity as held-to-maturity investments. This classification requires significant judgement. In 
making this judgement, the Group evaluates its intention and ability to hold such investments to maturity.

5.  revenue and segment information

(a)  revenue

US$’000

Container transport and logistics
Others

2013

2012

6,205,342
26,241

6,432,955
26,104

6,231,583

6,459,059 

The principal activities of the Group are container transport and logistics.

Revenue comprises turnover which includes gross freight, charter hire, service and other income from the operation 
of the container transport and logistics and rental income from the investment property.

108

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts  
 
 
 
5.  revenue and segment information (Continued)

(b)  Segment information

The principal activities of the Group are container transport and logistics. Container transport and logistics include 
global containerised shipping services in major trade lanes, covering Trans-Pacific, Trans-Atlantic, Asia/Europe, Asia/
Australia and Intra-Asia trades, and integrated services over the management and control of effective storage and flow 
of goods. In accordance with the Group’s internal financial reporting provided to the chief operating decision-makers, 
who are responsible for allocating resources, assessing performance of the operating segments and making strategic 
decisions, the reportable operating segments are container transport and logistics and others.

operating segments

The segment results for the year ended 31st December 2013 are as follows:

US$’000

revenue

Operating profit
Finance costs (note 12)
Share of profits of jointly controlled entities 

(note 20)

Share of profits of associated companies (note 21)

profit before taxation
Taxation

profit for the year

Capital expenditure
Depreciation
Amortisation

Container 
transport and 
logistics

6,205,342

57,381
(41,019)

4,001
13,703

34,066
(16,476)

17,590

987,525
302,883
8,917

The segment results for the year ended 31st December 2012 are as follows:

others

elimination

Group

27,115

32,933
–

–
–

32,933
(3,390)

29,543

11,926
1
–

(874)

6,231,583

–
–

–
–

–
–

–

–
–
–

90,314
(41,019)

4,001
13,703

66,999
(19,866)

47,133

999,451
302,884
8,917

Others

Elimination

Restated 
Group

US$’000

revenue

Operating profit
Finance costs (note 12)
Share of profits of jointly controlled entities 

(note 20)

Share of profits of associated companies (note 21)

profit before taxation
Taxation

profit for the year

Capital expenditure
Depreciation
Amortisation

Container 
transport and 
logistics

6,432,955

228,829
(32,877)

3,016
12,091

211,059
(14,849)

26,887

99,075
–

–
–

99,075
1,032

196,210

100,107

780,105
235,346
11,338

4,457
–
–

(783)

6,459,059

–
–

–
–

–
–

–

–
–
–

327,904
(32,877)

3,016
12,091

310,134
(13,817)

296,317

784,562
235,346
11,338

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

109

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  revenue and segment information (Continued)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

operating segments (Continued)

The segment assets and liabilities at 31st December 2013 are as follows:

US$’000

Segment assets
Jointly controlled entities
Associated companies

Total assets

Segment liabilities

Container 
transport and 
logistics

others

Group

6,616,682
8,674
142,027

2,222,835
–
–

8,839,517
8,674
142,027

6,767,383

2,222,835

8,990,218

(4,456,967)

(56,627)

(4,513,594)

The segment assets and liabilities at 31st December 2012 are as follows (Restated):

US$’000

Segment assets
Jointly controlled entities
Associated companies

Total assets

Segment liabilities

Container 
transport and 
logistics

Others

Group

5,892,119
7,610
111,917

2,219,393
–
–

8,111,512
7,610
111,917

6,011,646

2,219,393

8,231,039

(3,681,404)

(62,042)

(3,743,446)

The segment of “Others” primarily includes assets and liabilities of property and corporate level activities. Assets under 
the segment of “Others” consist primarily of investment property, available-for-sale financial assets, held-to-maturity 
investments and portfolio investments together with cash and bank balances that are managed at the corporate level. 
Liabilities  under  the  segment  of  “Others”  primarily  include  creditors  and  accruals  and  deferred  taxation  liabilities 
related to corporate level activities.

110

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  revenue and segment information (Continued)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

Geographical information

The Group’s two reportable operating segments operate in four main geographical areas, even though they are managed 
on  a  worldwide  basis.  Freight  revenues  from  container  transport  and  logistics  are  analysed  based  on  the  outbound 
cargoes of each geographical territory.

The Group’s total assets mainly include container vessels and containers which are primarily utilised across geographical 
markets for shipment of cargoes throughout the world. Accordingly, non-current assets by geographical areas are not 
presented.

US$’000

Year ended 31st December 2013
  Asia
  North America
  Europe
  Australia
  Unallocated*

year ended 31st December 2012
  Asia
  North America
  Europe
  Australia
  Unallocated*

revenue

Capital 
expenditure

4,105,788
994,121
908,192
223,482
–

11,353
104,438
609
1,012
882,039

6,231,583

999,451

4,295,526
1,069,317
887,979
206,237
–

67,260
15,086
196
20
702,000

6,459,059

784,562

* 

Unallocated capital expenditure comprises additions to vessels, dry-docking, containers and intangible assets.

6.  operating costs

US$’000

Cargo
Vessel and voyage
Equipment and repositioning

Investment property

2013

2012

2,816,731
2,166,513
775,548

5,758,792
13,254

2,756,490
2,263,351
774,549

5,794,390
12,328

5,772,046

5,806,718

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

111

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  other operating income

US$’000

Income from available-for-sale financial assets
  – Gain on disposal
  – Distribution
  – Dividend income
Interest income from banks
Interest income from held-to-maturity investments
Portfolio investment income
  – Fair value gain (realised and unrealised)
  – Interest income
  – Dividend income
Net gain on interest rate swap contracts
Fair value gain on foreign exchange forward contract
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Exchange gain
Others

2013

2012

112
2,323
7,906
15,547
9,949

–
8,122
686
–
2,621
9,032
5,271
1,673

331
1,101
42,633
23,612
8,528

17,310
6,911
639
442
2,136
–
12,604
1,319

63,242

117,566

The investment income from listed investments for the year amounts to US$21.1 million (2012: US$34.9 million).

8.  other operating expenses

US$’000

Business and administrative
Portfolio investment loss
  – Fair value loss (realised and unrealised)
Net loss on interest rate swap contracts
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment

9.  employee benefit expense

US$’000

Wages and salaries
Pension and retirement benefits
  – Defined contribution plans (note 24)
  – Defined benefit plans (note 24)

2013

414,913

9,828
801
–

Restated
2012

441,482

–
–
1,064

425,542

442,546

2013

456,656

23,511
1,068

Restated
2012

469,200

23,002
634

481,235

492,836

Employee benefit expenses of US$169.4 million (2012: US$179.9 million) are included in operating costs in the consolidated 
profit and loss account.

112

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  Directors’ and management’s emoluments

(a)  Directors’ emoluments

The remuneration of every Director is set out below:

Name of Director
US$’000

fees

Salary and 
benefits

Discretionary 
bonuses

for the year ended 31st December 2013

employer’s 
contribution  
to provident 
fund scheme

Mr. C C Tung
Mr. Tsann Rong Chang
Prof. Roger King
Mr. Philip Chow
Mr. Kenneth G Cambie*
Mr. Andrew Tung
Mr. Alan Tung
Mr. Simon Murray
Prof. Richard Wong
Mr. Edward Cheng

107
59
60
32
–
–
–
32
47
32

611
–
–
347
208
463
313
–
–
–

99
–
–
45
128
75
48
–
–
–

71
–
–
4
25
54
36
–
–
–

The discretionary bonuses paid in 2013 relate to performance for year 2012.

* 

Resigned on 1st June 2013.

Name of Director
US$’000

Fees

Salary and 
benefits

Discretionary 
bonuses

For the year ended 31st December 2012

Employer’s 
contribution  
to provident 
fund scheme

Mr. C C Tung
Mr. Tsann Rong Chang
Prof. Roger King
Mr. Philip Chow
Mr. Kenneth G Cambie
Mr. Andrew Tung
Mr. Alan Tung
Mr. Simon Murray
Prof. Richard Wong
Mr. Edward Cheng

107
45
60
3
–
–
–
19
38
19

591
–
–
515
424
427
284
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
128
–
–
–
–
–

59
–
–
43
33
43
28
–
–
–

The discretionary bonuses paid in 2012 relate to performance for year 2011.

None of the Directors has waived the right to receive their emoluments.

total

888
59
60
428
361
592
397
32
47
32

Total

757
45
60
561
585
470
312
19
38
19

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

113

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 10.  Directors’ and management’s emoluments (Continued)

(b)  five highest paid individuals

The five individuals whose emoluments were the highest in the Group for the year include two (2012: four) Directors 
whose  emoluments  are  reflected  in  the  analysis  presented  above.  The  emoluments  payable  to  the  remaining  three 
individuals (2012: one individual) are as follows:

US$’000

Basic salaries, housing allowances, other allowances and benefits in kind
Discretionary bonuses
Pension costs – defined contribution plans

The emoluments of the five individuals fell within the following bands:

emolument bands (US$)

384,601 ~ 448,700 (HK$3,000,001 ~ HK$3,500,000)
448,701 ~ 512,800 (HK$3,500,001 ~ HK$4,000,000)
512,801 ~ 576,900 (HK$4,000,001 ~ HK$4,500,000)
576,901 ~ 641,000 (HK$4,500,001 ~ HK$5,000,000)
705,101 ~ 769,200 (HK$5,500,001 ~ HK$6,000,000)
833,301 ~ 897,400 (HK$6,500,001 ~ HK$7,000,000)

(c)  Key management compensation

US$’000

Salaries and other employee benefits
Pension costs – defined contribution plans

2013

1,058
160
130

1,348

2012

368
–
37

405

Number of individuals

2013

2012

2
1
–
1
–
1

5

2013

4,712
422

5,134

1
1
1
1
1
–

5

2012

4,713
437

5,150

The Group usually determines and pays discretionary bonuses to employees (including Directors) around April/May each 
year  based  on  the  actual  financial  results  of  the  Group  for  the  preceding  year.  The  discretionary  bonuses  shown  above 
represent actual payments to the Directors and individuals during the current financial year in relation to performance for 
the preceding year.

114

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  operating profit

US$’000

Operating profit is arrived at after crediting: 
  Operating lease rental income 

land and buildings

and after charging: 
  Depreciation

  Owned assets
  Leased assets

  Operating lease rental expense

  Vessels and equipment
  Terminals and berths
  Land and buildings

  Rental outgoings in respect of an investment property
  Amortisation of intangible assets
  Amortisation of prepayments of lease premiums
  Auditors’ remuneration

  Audit
  Non-audit

2013

2012

26,241

26,104

226,458
76,426

355,154
34,343
26,069
13,254
8,427
490

3,094
1,573

163,118
72,228

388,132
31,816
27,308
12,328
10,859
479

2,654
1,776

Operating lease rental expenses of US$391.0 million and US$24.6 million (2012: US$418.5 million and US$28.8 million) 
respectively are included in operating costs and other operating expenses in the consolidated profit and loss account.

12.  finance costs

US$’000

Interest expense
  Bank loans and bank overdrafts

  Wholly repayable within five years
  Not wholly repayable within five years

  Finance lease obligations

  Wholly repayable within five years
  Not wholly repayable within five years

Amount capitalised under assets

Net interest expense

2013

2012

12,266
16,895

1,551
13,730

44,442
(3,423)

41,019

8,247
14,471

7,792
5,239

35,749
(2,872)

32,877

The borrowing costs of the loans to finance the assets under construction (note 16) represent an average capitalisation rate 
of approximately 0.8% (2012: 1.6%) per annum.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

115

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13.  taxation

US$’000

Current taxation
  Hong Kong profits tax
  Overseas taxation

Deferred taxation
  Overseas taxation

2013

457
21,360

21,817

Restated
2012

1,310
14,295

15,605

(1,951)

(1,788)

19,866

13,817

Taxation  has  been  provided  at  the  appropriate  tax  rates  prevailing  in  the  countries  in  which  the  Group  operates  on  the 
estimated assessable profits for the year. These rates range from 10% to 47% (2012: 12% to 47%) and the rate applicable for 
Hong Kong profits tax is 16.5% (2012: 16.5%).

The associated companies in the People’s Republic of China enjoy preferential tax treatment.

The tax of the Group’s profit before taxation differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the applicable tax 
rate, being the weighted average of rates prevailing in the territories in which the Group operates, as follows:

US$’000

Profit before taxation
Share of profits of jointly controlled entities
Share of profits of associated companies

Tax calculated at applicable tax rates
Income not subject to tax
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
Tax losses not recognised
Temporary differences not recognised
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses
Utilisation of previously unrecognised temporary differences
Withholding tax
Change in tax rates
Other items

2013

66,999
(4,001)
(13,703)

Restated
2012

310,134
(3,016)
(12,091)

49,295

295,027

23,769
(235,318)
226,142
3,726
29
(360)
(456)
1,567
542
225

72,986
(278,389)
219,042
4,328
2,803
(394)
(3,648)
–
(98)
(2,813)

19,866

13,817

116

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14.  earnings per ordinary share

The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share is based on the Group’s profit attributable to equity holders 
of the Company divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.

The basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share are the same since there are no potential dilutive shares.

US$’000

Number of ordinary shares in issue (thousands)

Group’s profit attributable to:
  Equity holders of the Company
  Non-controlling interests

Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the Company (US cents)

15.  Dividends

US$’000

Interim paid: nil (2012: US4.66 cents) per ordinary share
Proposed final of US1.88 cents (2012: US7.18 cents) per ordinary share

2013

625,793

47,036
97

47,133

7.5

2013

–
11,765

11,765

Restated
2012

625,793

295,387
930

296,317

47.2

2012

29,198
44,932

74,130 

The Board of Directors proposes a final dividend in respect of 2013 of US1.88 cents (2012: US7.18 cents) per ordinary share. 
The proposed dividend will be accounted for as an appropriation of retained profit in the year ending 31st December 2014.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

117

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16.  property, plant and equipment

Container
vessels and
capitalised
dry-docking
costs

assets
under
construction

freehold
land and
buildings
outside
Hong Kong

Buildings
outside
Hong Kong

leasehold
improvement
and 
furnitures

Vehicles,
computer
and other
equipment

total

Containers

Chassis

3,293,465

999,800

1,494,601

83,910

7,316

56,291

51,980

283,191

6,270,554

US$’000

Group
Cost
  At 31st December 2012
  Currency translation 

  adjustments

  Additions
  Reclassification
  Disposals

Accumulated depreciation
  At 31st December 2012
  Currency translation 

  adjustments
  Charge for the year
  Disposals

  at 31st December 2013

Net book amount
  at 31st December 2013

–
52,344
1,302,077
(12,260)

–
710,498
(1,302,077)
–

27
182,627
–
(31,730)

3
82
–
(42,602)

41,393

(149)
–
–
–

1,620
–
–
–

(157)
3,780
–
(5,266)

(66)
26,023
–
(5,717)

1,278
975,354
–
(97,575)

7,167

57,911

50,337

303,431

7,149,611

  at 31st December 2013

4,635,626

408,221

1,645,525

735,277

–
156,744
(11,958)

880,063

–

–
–
–

–

31
117,499
(24,307)

648,317

3,755,563

408,221

997,208

555,094

59,971

2,673

15,084

42,319

195,363

1,605,781

11
2,982
(33,039)

29,925

11,468

23,939

(89)
128
–

690
1,981
–

(7)
3,735
(5,173)

(56)
19,815
(5,408)

580
302,884
(79,885)

2,712

17,755

40,874

209,714

1,829,360

4,455

4,643

40,156

41,207

9,463

9,661

93,717

5,320,251

87,828

4,664,773

  At 31st December 2012

2,558,188

999,800

939,507

Net book amount of 
leased assets

  at 31st December 2013

  At 31st December 2012

1,452,740

1,198,108

–

–

30,862

99,580

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

1,823

2,055

1,485,425

1,299,743

118

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16.  property, plant and equipment (Continued)

Container
vessels and
capitalised
dry-docking
costs

assets
under
construction

freehold
land and
buildings
outside
Hong Kong

Buildings
outside
Hong Kong

leasehold
improvement
and 
furnitures

Vehicles,
computer
and other
equipment

total

Containers

Chassis

3,470,787

417,089

1,400,441

126,409

7,243

55,746

50,067

264,425

5,792,207

–
34,287
(211,609)

–
582,711
–

2
109,897
(15,739)

5
54
(42,558)

73
–
–

170
375
–

27
6,846
(4,960)

(90)
36,174
(17,318)

187
770,344
(292,184)

US$’000

Group
Cost
  At 31st December 2011
  Currency translation 

  adjustments

  Additions
  Disposals

  At 31st December 2012

3,293,465

999,800

1,494,601

83,910

7,316

56,291

51,980

283,191

6,270,554

Accumulated depreciation
  At 31st December 2011
  Currency translation 

  adjustments
  Charge for the year
  Disposals

  At 31st December 2012

Net book amount
  At 31st December 2012

  At 31st December 2011

Net book amount of 
leased assets

  At 31st December 2012

  At 31st December 2011

762,959

–
118,536
(146,218)

735,277

–

–
–
–

–

478,236

94,182

2,506

12,845

42,676

193,609

1,587,013

2
88,135
(11,279)

1
3,956
(38,168)

39
128
–

85
2,154
–

73
4,004
(4,434)

(12)
18,433
(16,667)

188
235,346
(216,766)

555,094

59,971

2,673

15,084

42,319

195,363

1,605,781

2,558,188

2,707,828

999,800

417,089

1,198,108

1,245,004

–

–

939,507

922,205

99,580

219,350

23,939

32,227

–

–

4,643

4,737

–

–

41,207

42,901

–

–

9,661

7,391

–

–

87,828

70,816

4,664,773

4,205,194

2,055

1,145

1,299,743

1,465,499

(a)  The aggregate net book amount of assets pledged as security for bank loans amounts to US$2,799.2 million (2012: 
US$2,171.1 million). Specific charges on vessels of the Group include legal mortgages and assignments of insurance 
claims and charter hire income relating to these vessels.

(b)  Interest  costs  of  US$3.4  million  (2012:  US$2.9  million)  during  the  year  were  capitalised  as  part  of  assets  under 

construction.

(c)  Depreciation charge of US$287.2 million (2012: US$219.3 million) for the year has been expensed in operating costs 

and US$15.7 million (2012: US$16.0 million) in other operating expenses.

(d)  As at 31st December 2013 and 2012, the buildings outside Hong Kong are held under medium-term leasehold land.

The container vessels and containers include the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under finance leases:

US$’000

Cost – capitalised finance leases
Accumulated depreciation

Net book amount

2013

2012

1,896,714
(413,112)

1,697,668
(399,980)

1,483,602

1,297,688

The Group leases various containers and container vessels under non-cancellable finance lease agreements. The lease terms 
are between 4.5 and 25 years.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

119

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  investment property

US$’000

Group

Balance at beginning of year
Additions

Fair value (loss)/gain

Balance at end of year

2013

2012

165,000
11,923

176,923
(6,923)

160,000
4,457

164,457
543

170,000

165,000

Background and valuation processes of the Group

The  investment  property,  “Wall  Street  Plaza”,  is  a  commercial  property  located  at  88,  Pine  Street,  New  york,  USA.  The 
property is situated on three parcels of freehold land, two of which are wholly owned by the Group. The freehold interest 
in the third parcel, representing approximately 10% of the site, is owned 50% by the Group and under a long-term lease to 
the Group expiring in the year 2066.

Valuation processes of the Group

The Group’s investment property was valued at 31st December 2013 by an independent professionally qualified valuer who 
holds a recognised relevant professional qualification. The Group’s finance department reviews the valuation performed by 
the independent valuer for financial reporting purposes. This team reports directly to the Chief Financial Officer “CFO”. 
Discussions  of  valuation  processes  and  results  are  held  between  the  CFO,  the  finance  team  and  the  valuer.  As  at  31st 
December 2013, the fair value of the property has been determined by Cushman & Wakefield, Inc.

Valuation techniques

Fair value of the investment property is derived by using the discounted cash flow method. The net present value of the 
income stream is estimated by applying an appropriate discount rate which reflects the risk profile.

There were no changes to the valuation techniques during the year.

information about fair value measurement using significant unobservable inputs

Discount  rate  is  estimated  by  Cushman  &  Wakefield,  Inc.  based  on  the  risk  profile  of  the  property  being  valued.  If  the 
discount rate is higher, the fair value would be lower. At 31st December 2013, discount rate of 8% per annum is used in 
the valuation.

Net  operating  income  growth  rate  of  3%  per  annum  is  used  in  the  valuation.  If  the  growth  rate  is  higher,  the  fair  value 
would be higher.

Prevailing  market  rents  are  estimated  based  on  recent  lettings  of  US$37  per  sq  ft  to  US$40  per  sq  ft,  within  the  subject 
property. If the rents are higher, the fair value would be higher.

120

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
18.  prepayments of lease premiums

The Group’s interests in leasehold land and land use rights represent prepaid operating lease payments for leases between 
10 and 50 years and their net book values are analysed as follows:

US$’000

Group

Leasehold land outside Hong Kong

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Amortisation

Balance at end of year

2013

2012

9,543

9,793
240
(490)

9,543

9,793

10,249
23
(479)

9,793

Amortisation of US$0.5 million (2012: US$0.5 million) is included in “other operating expenses” in the consolidated profit 
and loss account.

19.  Subsidiaries

US$’000

Company

2013

2012

Unlisted shares, at cost less provision

169,487

169,487

Non-current
Amount due to a subsidiary

Current
Amounts due from subsidiaries

Amounts due to subsidiaries

1,133,229

733,229

2,194,651

1,847,433

249,644

237,269

The amounts due from and to subsidiaries are interest free, unsecured and have no specific terms of repayment, except for 
amount payable of US$1,133.2 million (2012: US$733.2 million) which is not repayable within one year.

Particulars of the principal subsidiaries at 31st December 2013 are shown on pages 145 to 154.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

121

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20.  jointly controlled entities

US$’000

Group

Share of net assets

2013

2012

8,674

7,610

The Group’s share of assets, liabilities and results of the jointly controlled entities are summarised below:

US$’000

Non-current assets
Current assets
Current liabilities

Share of net assets

Income
Expenses

Share of profits of jointly controlled entities

Share of total comprehensive income of jointly controlled entities

Particulars of the jointly controlled entities at 31st December 2013 are shown on page 154.

21.  associated companies

US$’000

Group

Share of net assets

2013

3
9,477
(806)

8,674

10,363
(6,362)

4,001

4,241

2012

117
8,175
(682)

7,610

8,937
(5,921)

3,016

3,023

2013

2012

134,697

111,917

The Group’s share of assets, liabilities and results of the associated companies are summarised as follows:

US$’000

Non-current assets
Current assets
Non-current liabilities
Current liabilities

Share of net assets

Income
Expenses

Share of profits of associated companies

Share of total comprehensive income of associated companies

Particulars of the associated companies at 31st December 2013 are shown on page 154.

2013

156,731
13,382
(17,681)
(17,735)

2012

158,245
10,280
(44,930)
(11,678)

134,697

111,917

42,352
(28,649)

13,703

17,233

37,944
(25,853)

12,091

12,283

122

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22.  intangible assets

US$’000

Group

At 1st January 2012
  Cost
  Accumulated amortisation

  Net book amount

year ended 31st December 2012
  Opening net book amount
  Additions
  Amortisation

  Closing net book amount

At 31st December 2012
  Cost
  Accumulated amortisation

  Net book amount

Year ended 31st December 2013
  Opening net book amount
  Additions
  Amortisation

  Closing net book amount

at 31st December 2013
  Cost
  Accumulated amortisation

  Net book amount

Computer software
development costs

120,978
(80,964)

40,014

40,014
9,761
(10,859)

38,916

130,681
(91,765)

38,916

38,916
12,174
(8,427)

42,663

142,855
(100,192)

42,663 

Computer software development costs mainly comprise internally generated capitalised software development costs.

Amortisation of US$8.4 million (2012: US$10.9 million) is included in “other operating expenses” in the consolidated profit 
and loss account.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

123

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
23.  Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities)

US$’000

Group

Deferred taxation assets
Deferred taxation liabilities

31st December
2013

Restated
31st December
2012

Restated
1st January
2012

4,072
(55,557)

(51,485)

1,711
(57,558)

(55,847)

1,803
(61,590)

(59,787)

Deferred taxation assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legal right to set off current taxation assets with current 
taxation  liabilities  and  when  the  deferred  taxation  relates  to  the  same  taxation  authority.  The  above  assets/(liabilities) 
shown in the consolidated balance sheet are determined after appropriate offsetting of the relevant amounts and include 
the following:

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets to be recovered after 
  more than twelve months

Deferred taxation liabilities to be settled after 
  more than twelve months

31st December
2013

Restated
31st December
2012

Restated
1st January
2012

357

315

247

(53,704)

(50,711)

(47,060)

Deferred taxation is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using applicable tax rates prevailing 
in the countries in which the Group operates. The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to offsetting of 
balances within the same taxation jurisdiction) during the year were as follows:

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets

At 31st December 2011
Currency translation adjustments
Charged to consolidated profit and 

loss account

At 31st December 2012
Currency translation adjustments
(Charged)/credited to consolidated 
  profit and loss account
Credited to other comprehensive 

income

at 31st December 2013

accelerated 
accounting 
depreciation

pensions

revenue 
expenditure

tax losses

total

1,278
6

(99)

1,185
(8)

(84)

–

1,093

–
–

–

–
(2)

10,492
63

(1,214)

9,341
53

(937)

(1,055)

2,819

1,880

–

3,295
(2)

(125)

3,168
(70)

809

–

15,065
67

(1,438)

13,694
(27)

(1,267)

2,819

8,339

3,907

15,219

124

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At 31st December 2012

14,992

50,630

23.  Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities) (Continued)

accelerated 
tax 
depreciation

revaluation 
of investment 
property

pensions

revenue 
expenditure

total

US$’000

Deferred taxation liabilities

At 31st December 2011
  As previously reported
  Prior year adjustment (note 2)

  As restated
Currency translation adjustments
(Credited)/charged to consolidated 
  profit and loss account
Credited to other comprehensive 

income

At 31st December 2012
  As previously reported
  Prior year adjustment (note 2)

  As restated
Currency translation adjustments
(Credited)/charged to consolidated 
  profit and loss account
Charged to other comprehensive 

income

18,936
–

18,936
–

(3,944)

–

50,031
–

50,031
–

599

–

14,992
–

14,992
(5)

50,630
–

50,630
–

5,984
(4,227)

1,757
89

472

(2,180)

138

6,504
(6,366)

138
19

359

–

4,128
–

4,128
6

79,079
(4,227)

74,852
95

(353)

(3,226)

–

3,781

3,781
–

3,781
8

1,556

–

(2,180)

69,541

75,907
(6,366)

69,541
22

(3,218)

359

5,345

66,704

(3,014)

(1,244)

(516)

–

–

At 31st December 2013

11,973

49,386

Deferred taxation assets of US$33.1 million (2012: US$32.3 million) arising from unused tax losses of US$132.8 million 
(2012: US$124.4 million) have not been recognised in the consolidated accounts. Unused tax losses of US$109.6 million 
(2012: US$119.4 million) have no expiry date and the remaining balance will expire at various dates up to and including 2033.

Deferred taxation liabilities of US$30.6 million (2012: US$27.0 million) on temporary differences associated with investments 
in subsidiaries of US$189.4 million (2012: US$175.4 million) have not been recognised as there is no current intention of 
remitting the retained profit of these subsidiaries to the holding companies in the foreseeable future.

24.  pension and retirement benefits

The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension and retirement schemes in the main 
countries  in  which  the  Group  operates.  The  total  charges  to  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  for  the  year  were 
US$24.6 million (2012: US$23.6 million).

Defined contribution schemes

The principal defined contribution schemes are operated in Hong Kong and the USA. These schemes cover approximately 
77% of the Group’s employees. Contributions to the defined contribution schemes, all the assets of which are held in trust 
funds separate from the Group, are based on a percentage of an employee’s salary, depending upon the length of service of 
the employee, but the Group’s contributions to certain schemes may be reduced by contributions forfeited by those employees 
who leave the schemes prior to vesting fully in those contributions.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

125

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24.  pension and retirement benefits (Continued)

Defined contribution schemes (Continued)

In 2008, the Group terminated the defined benefit scheme and post-retirement medical plans in the USA at the request of 
the labour unions. All the pension assets and obligations were transferred to a defined benefit multi-employer pension plan 
and a defined benefit multi-employer post-retirement medical plan (the “Plans”) together with other industry players. Since 
the Group is not able to identify its share of the underlying financial position and performance of the Plans with sufficient 
reliability for accounting purposes, accordingly the Plans are accounted for by the Group as defined contribution plans.

The charges for the defined contribution schemes to the consolidated profit and loss account during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Group

Contributions to the schemes
Forfeitures utilised

Defined benefit schemes

The amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are as follows:

2013

2012

24,022
(511)

23,511

23,170
(168)

23,002

US$’000

Group

Pension and retirement assets
Pension and retirement liabilities

Net Scheme (liabilities)/assets

Net scheme (liabilities)/assets

31st December
2013

Restated
31st December
2012

Restated
1st January
2012

–
(2,409)

(2,409)

10,386
(301)

10,085

16,831
(2,427)

14,404

The principal defined benefit scheme is operated in the United Kingdom which was valued by Barnett Waddingham LLP. 
The defined benefit scheme (the “Scheme”) cover approximately 1% of the Group’s employees and are funded. The assets 
of the Scheme are held in trust funds separate from the Group. Contributions to the Scheme are assessed in accordance 
with the advice of qualified actuaries in compliance with local practice and regulations. The actuarial assumptions used to 
calculate the projected benefit obligations of the Group’s pension schemes vary according to the economic conditions of 
the countries in which they are situated.

126

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24.  pension and retirement benefits (Continued)

Defined benefit schemes (Continued)

Net scheme (liabilities)/assets (Continued)

The net scheme (liabilities)/assets recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are determined as follows:

US$’000

Fair value of plan assets
Present value of funded obligations

(Deficit)/surplus of funded plans

31st December
2013

Restated
31st December
2012

Restated
1st January
2012

244,639
(247,048)

250,128
(240,043)

231,135
(216,731)

(2,409)

10,085

14,404

Movements in the fair value of the plan assets of the schemes during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Interest income on plan assets
Remeasurement (losses)/gains on assets
Contributions from the Group
Contributions from the plan members
Benefits paid

Balance at end of year

Movements in the present value of obligations of the schemes during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Current service cost
Interest expense
Experience losses on liabilities
Gains from changes to demographic assumptions
(Gains)/losses from changes to financial assumptions
Contributions from the plan members
Benefits paid
Settlements

2013

250,128
5,131
10,221
(8,907)
3,867
118
(15,919)

Restated
2012

231,135
11,240
11,142
7,206
3,877
124
(14,596)

244,639

250,128

2013

240,043
4,827
1,553
9,736
9,602
(2,715)
(168)
118
(15,919)
(29)

2012

216,731
10,339
1,522
10,254
–
–
17,855
124
(14,596)
(2,186)

Balance at end of year

247,048

240,043

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

127

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24.  pension and retirement benefits (Continued)

Defined benefit schemes (Continued)

Net scheme (liabilities)/assets (Continued)

The charges of the schemes recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account are as follows:

US$’000

Current service cost
Interest expense
Interest income on plan assets

Net expense recognised for the year

2013

1,553
9,736
(10,221)

Restated
2012

1,522
10,254
(11,142)

1,068

634

Charges of US$1.1 million (2012: charges of US$0.6 million) were included in other operating expenses in the consolidated 
profit and loss account.

The main actuarial assumptions made for the schemes were as follows:

Discount rate
Inflation rate
Expected future salary increases
Expected future pension increases

2013

2012

4%
3%
4%
3%

4%
3%
4%
3%

Actual return on plan assets (US$’000)

1,253

18,344

At 31st December 2013, if discount rate had been 0.2% higher/lower, with all other variables held constant, the fair value of 
the funded obligations would have been US$6.4 million lower/US$6.7 million higher. At 31st December 2013, if inflation 
rate had been 0.1% higher/lower, with all other variables held constant, the fair value of the funded obligations would have 
been  US$2.2  million  higher/US$2.2  million  lower.  The  sensitivities  show  the  likely  effect  of  a  single  assumption  being 
adjusted while holding all other assumptions constant.

Plan assets of the schemes comprise the following:

US$’000

Equity
Debt
Others

2013

2012

40,023
163,150
41,466

244,639

16%
67%
17%

42,523
165,083
42,522

100%

250,128

17%
66%
17%

100%

The current agreed contribution rate is 29.1% of contributory salaries and the estimated duration of the Scheme’s liability 
was 14 years. Expected normal and deficit deduction contributions to the Scheme for the year ending 31st December 2014 
is US$3.9 million.

128

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24.  pension and retirement benefits (Continued)

Defined benefit schemes (Continued)

Net scheme (liabilities)/assets (Continued)

Through its defined benefit pension plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks as follows:

• 

• 

• 

Investment risk. The Scheme holds investments in asset classes, such as equities, which have volatile market values and 
while these assets are expected to provide real returns over the long-term, the short-term volatility can cause additional 
funding to be required if deficit emerges.

Interest rate and market risk. The Scheme’s liabilities are assessed using market yields on high quality corporate bonds 
to discount the liabilities. As the Scheme holds assets such as equities, the value of the assets and liabilities may not 
move in the same way.

Inflation risk. A significant proportion of the benefits under the Scheme are linked to inflation. Although the Scheme’s 
assets are expected to provide a good hedge against inflation over the long term, movements over the short-term could 
lead to deficits emerging.

• 

Longevity and other demographic risk. If members live longer than assumed a deficit will emerge in the Scheme.

25.  restricted bank balances

US$’000

Group

Non-current
Current

Restricted bank balances

2013

2012

24,731
1,441

26,172

18,030
460

18,490

As at 31st December 2013, the restricted bank balances of US$26.2 million (2012: US$18.5 million) are funds pledged as 
securities for banking facilities or required to be utilised for specific purposes.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s restricted bank balances are mainly denominated in US dollar (2012: US dollar).

The credit quality of restricted bank balances by reference to Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

Group

AA
A
BBB

Company 

2013

2012

47
1,475
24,650

26,172

389
958
17,143

18,490

Restricted bank balances - current 

337

337

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

129

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26.  available-for-sale financial assets

US$’000

Group

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Additions
Disposals
Change in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income

Balance at end of year

Available-for-sale financial assets include the following:

US$’000

Listed equity securities
  Hong Kong
  Overseas

Market value of listed equity securities
Unlisted equity security
Others

2013

2012

154,463
1,161
–
(116)
(5,841)

130,566
176
34,747
(1,398)
(9,628)

149,667

154,463

2013

2012

37,512
9

37,521
111,400
746

39,121
8

39,129
114,500
834

149,667

154,463

The carrying amounts of the Group’s available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

Renminbi
Hong Kong dollar
Other currencies

27.  Held-to-maturity investments

US$’000

Group

Listed debt securities
  Hong Kong
  Overseas

Unlisted debt security
  Hong Kong

Market value

130

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

2013

148,955
539
173

2012

153,621
602
240

149,667

154,463

2013

2012

166,169
88,403

166,341
86,519

254,572

252,860

–

1,096

254,572

253,956

265,025

274,238

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27.  Held-to-maturity investments (Continued)

Movements in held-to-maturity investments are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Additions
Redemptions on maturity
Amortisation
Currency translation adjustments

Balance at end of year

2013

253,956
–
–
(174)
790

2012

182,092
73,597
(3,000)
(53)
1,320

254,572

253,956

The carrying amounts of held-to-maturity investments are mainly denominated in US dollar.

The credit quality of held-to-maturity investments by reference to Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as 
follows:

US$’000

AAA
AA
A
BBB
BB
Non-ranking

2013

9,536
19,339
72,514
95,522
7,277
50,384

2012

9,543
19,312
80,104
85,614
16,427
42,956

254,572

253,956

The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying amount of held-to-maturity investments.

28.  other non-current assets

US$’000

Group

Other deposit
Others

29.  inventories

US$’000

Group

Bunker
Consumable stores

2013

2012

11,825
11,103

22,928

11,825
10,333

22,158 

2013

2012

136,345
13,713

138,559
15,226

150,058

153,785 

The  cost  of  inventories  recognised  as  expense  and  included  in  operating  costs  amounts  to  US$1,126.5  million  (2012: 
US$1,211.7 million).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

131

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30.  Debtors and prepayments

US$’000

Group

Trade receivables
  – Fully performing
  – Past due but not impaired
  – Impaired and provided for

Less: provision for impairment

Trade receivables – net
Other debtors
Other prepayments
Utility and other deposits
Tax recoverable

2013

2012

231,041
124,604
7,850

363,495
(7,850)

355,645
75,718
97,317
8,602
17,570

225,042
112,786
7,365

345,193
(7,365)

337,828
87,819
95,519
8,107
14,709

554,852

543,982

The credit quality of trade receivables net of provision for impairment, by reference to Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s 
credit ratings (if available) or to historical information about counterparty default rates is as follows:

US$’000

Group

Counterparties with external credit rating
A
BBB
BB

Counterparties without external credit rating
Group 1
Group 2
Group 3

Notes:

Group 1 – new customers (less than 6 months).

Group 2 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with no defaults in the past.

Group 3 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with some defaults in the past.

2013

2012

17,105
4,674
7,753

29,532

36,958
288,794
361

19,712
1,697
7,837

29,246

20,555
288,010
17

326,113

308,582

355,645

337,828

132

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30.  Debtors and prepayments (Continued)

Trade  receivables  are  normally  due  for  payment  on  presentation  of  invoices  or  granted  with  an  approved  credit  period 
ranging mainly from 10 to 30 days. Debtors with overdue trade receivables are requested to settle all outstanding balances 
before any further credit is granted.

The majority of past due but not impaired trade receivables are less than three months old. The ageing analysis of the Group’s 
trade receivables, net of provision for impairment, prepared in accordance with the due dates of invoices, is as follows:

US$’000

Below one month
Two to three months
Four to six months

2013

327,629
21,812
6,204

2012

308,787
23,700
5,341

355,645

337,828 

There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a large number of internationally 
dispersed customers. Other debtors are fully performing.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Canadian dollar
Euro
Japanese yen
Hong Kong dollar
Renminbi
Pound sterling
Australian dollar
Other currencies

Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:

US$’000

Group

Balance at beginning of year
Provision
Write off
Unused amounts reversed

Balance at end of year

2013

117,136
17,013
50,448
13,090
11,305
45,402
14,713
25,813
60,725

2012

105,920
21,705
50,603
12,579
6,780
43,339
13,733
22,921
60,248

355,645

337,828 

2013

2012

7,365
3,825
(2,288)
(1,052)

7,850

5,373
3,398
(652)
(754)

7,365

The provision for impairment has been included in “other operating expenses” in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

133

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31.  amount due from an associated company

The amount receivable is unsecured, interest free and has no specific repayment terms.

32.  portfolio investments

US$’000

Group

Listed equity securities
  Hong Kong
  Overseas

Market value of listed equity securities
Unit trust
Listed debt securities
  Hong Kong
  Overseas
Unlisted debt securities
  Overseas
Others

2013

2012

22,856
1,466

24,322
6,202

133,578
53,736

148
–

23,658
1,217

24,875
4,977

88,758
86,534

141
142

217,986

205,427 

The carrying amounts of the Group’s portfolio investments are mainly denominated in US dollar.

The credit quality of listed debt securities by reference to Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

Group

AA
A
BBB
BB
Non-ranking

2013

2012

2,134
57,293
68,059
–
59,827

2,131
69,646
59,925
10,469
33,121

187,313

175,292 

The fair value of all equity securities and debt securities are based on their current bid prices in active markets.

134

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33.  Derivative financial instruments

US$’000

Group

assets
Non-current assets

Interest rate swap contracts

liabilities
Non-current liabilities

Interest rate swap contract

  Foreign exchange forward contract

2013

2012

4,407

7,022

(2,022)
(2,706)

(4,728)

(3,524)
(3,894)

(7,418)

The  credit  quality  of  derivative  financial  assets  by  reference  to  the  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s  credit  rating  is  as 
follows:

US$’000

AA
A

2013

614
3,793

4,407

2012

1,013
6,009

7,022 

(a)  foreign exchange forward contract

The  notional  principal  amount  of  the  outstanding  foreign  exchange  forward  contract  at  31st  December  2013  were 
US$23.4 million (2012: US$28.8 million).

(b)  interest rate swap contracts

The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31st December 2013 were US$110.5 
million (2012: US$123.0 million).

US$’000

Company

Non-current liability

Interest rate swap contract

2013

2012

(2,022)

(3,524)

The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contract at 31st December 2013 were US$50.0 million 
(2012: US$50.0 million).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

135

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34.  Cash and bank balances

US$’000

Group

Short-term bank deposits
  – Maturing within three months from the date of placement
Cash at bank and in hand

Short-term bank deposits
  – Maturing more than three months from the date of placement

2013

2012

1,221,764
498,452

1,203,348
393,842

1,720,216

1,597,190

192,130

264,460

1,912,346

1,861,650 

The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash and bank balances are mainly denominated in US dollar.

The credit quality of cash at bank and in hand and short-term bank deposits by reference to Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s 
and/or Fitch’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

Group

AAA
AA
A
BBB
BB
B
Others

US$’000

Company

Short-term bank deposits
  – Maturing within three months from the date of placement
Cash at bank and in hand

Total cash and bank balances

2013

2012

–
259,924
1,478,202
164,968
5,185
605
3,462

4,203
822,392
868,183
156,700
6,287
956
2,929

1,912,346

1,861,650

2013

2012

39,003
2,378

41,381

23,004
122

23,126 

136

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35.  Share capital

US$’000

Authorised:
  900,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.10 each
  65,000,000 convertible redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each
  50,000,000 redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each

Issued and fully paid:
  At 31st December 2012 and 2013

36.  reserves

Group

2013

2012

90,000
65,000
50,000

90,000
65,000
50,000

205,000

205,000

Number of 
shares 
(thousands)

ordinary 
shares 
US$’000

625,793

62,579 

US$’000

Balance at 31st December 2011
  As previously reported
  Prior year adjustment (note 2)

  As restated
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 

for the year

Transactions with owners
  2012 interim dividend
  Acquisition of additional 
interest in a subsidiary

Share
premium

Contributed
surplus

Capital
redemption
reserve

available-for-sale
financial assets
revaluation reserve

foreign
exchange
translation
reserve

retained
profit

total

172,457
–

172,457

88,547
–

88,547

–

–

–

–

–

–

4,696
–

4,696

–

–

–

128,178
–

128,178

57,945
–

3,736,460
(17,394)

4,188,283
(17,394)

57,945

3,719,066

4,170,889

(10,564)

927

286,918

277,281

–

–

–

–

(29,198)

(29,198)

264

264

Balance at 31st December 2012

172,457

88,547

4,696

117,614

58,872

3,977,050

4,419,236

Balance at 31st December 2012
  As previously reported
  Prior year adjustment (note 2)

  As restated
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 

for the year

Transactions with owners 
  2012 final dividend

172,457
–

172,457

–

–

88,547
–

88,547

–

–

4,696
–

4,696

–

–

117,614
–

117,614

59,712
(840)

4,003,885
(26,835)

4,446,911
(27,675)

58,872

3,977,050

4,419,236

(5,953)

6,062

33,870

33,979

–

–

(44,987)

(44,987)

Balance at 31st December 2013

172,457

88,547

4,696

111,661

64,934

3,965,933

4,408,228

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

137

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36.  reserves (Continued)

Company

US$’000

Balance at 31st December 2011
Total comprehensive income for 

the year

Transactions with owners 
  2012 interim dividend

Balance at 31st December 2012
Total comprehensive loss for the year
Transactions with owners 
  2012 final dividend

Share
premium

Contributed
surplus

Capital
redemption
reserve

retained
profit

total

172,457

88,547

4,696

246,176

511,876

–

–

–

–

–

–

519,508

519,508

(29,198)

(29,198)

172,457
–

88,547
–

4,696
–

736,486
(137)

1,002,186
(137)

–

–

–

(44,987)

(44,987)

Balance at 31st December 2013

172,457

88,547

4,696

691,362

957,062 

The loss attributable to shareholders for the year is dealt with in the accounts of the Company to the extent of US$0.1 million 
(2012: profit of US$519.5 million).

Under  the  Companies  Act  of  Bermuda  and  the  Bye-laws  of  the  Company,  the  contributed  surplus  is  also  distributable. 
Accordingly,  total  distributable  reserves  of  the  Company  amount  to  US$779.9  million  as  at  31st  December  2013  (2012: 
US$825.0 million).

37.  Borrowings

US$’000

Group

Non-current
Bank loans
  – Secured
  – Unsecured
Finance lease obligations

Current
Bank overdrafts, unsecured
Bank loans
  – Secured
  – Unsecured
Finance lease obligations

Total borrowings

138

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

2013

2012

1,881,785
100,447
1,283,323

1,340,366
11,069
974,342

3,265,555

2,325,777

314

172

168,588
9,908
89,500

221,684
31,079
302,818

268,310

555,753

3,533,865

2,881,530 

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37.  Borrowings (Continued)

The maturity of borrowings is as follows:

US$’000

As at 31st December 2013
  2014
  2015
  2016
  2017
  2018
  2019 onwards

Wholly repayable within five years
Not wholly repayable within five years

As at 31st December 2012
  2013
  2014
  2015
  2016
  2017
  2018 onwards

Wholly repayable within five years
Not wholly repayable within five years

finance leases

Bank
loans

Bank
overdrafts

present
value

Minimum
payments

178,496
167,349
208,184
208,072
247,666
1,150,961

2,160,728

631,689
1,529,039

2,160,728

252,763
121,829
103,950
142,786
142,678
840,192

1,604,198

538,007
1,066,191

1,604,198

314
–
–
–
–
–

314

314
–

314

172
–
–
–
–
–

172

172
–

172

89,500
186,551
124,710
258,141
103,324
610,597

101,395
197,658
135,941
276,959
111,918
690,005

1,372,823

1,513,876

593,271
779,552

1,372,823

302,818
64,277
142,818
100,764
234,075
432,408

330,521
71,854
151,377
107,416
254,307
478,813

1,277,160

1,394,288

756,517
520,643

1,277,160

Borrowings are secured by property, plant and equipment of the Group (note 16(a)).

The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows:

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations

2013

US$

1.6%
1.0%

£

others

–
0.6%

–
–

US$

1.5%
0.4%

2012

£

–
0.6%

Others

1.9%
–

The carrying amounts and fair values of the non-current borrowings are as follows:

US$’000

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations

Carrying amounts

fair values

2013

2012

2013

2012

1,982,232
1,283,323

1,351,435
974,342

1,984,035
1,275,871

1,352,378
974,342

3,265,555

2,325,777

3,259,906

2,326,720

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

139

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37.  Borrowings (Continued)

The fair values are based on cash flows discounted using rates based on the borrowing rates ranging from 1.7% to 4.8% 
(2012: 3.0%).

The carrying amounts of short-term borrowings approximate their fair values.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Pound sterling
Other currencies

2013

2012

3,510,065
23,502
298

2,853,427
28,044
59

3,533,865

2,881,530 

The fixed interest rate borrowings of the Group as at 31st December 2013 amounted to US$152.0 million (2012: US$44.2 
million). The remaining borrowings of US$3,381.9 million (2012: US$2,837.3 million) were subject to floating interest rates.

38.  Creditors and accruals

US$’000

Group

Trade payables
Other creditors
Accrued expenses
Deferred revenue

2013

2012

303,829
76,741
455,583
68,471

279,040
72,728
374,892
57,840

904,624

784,500 

The ageing analysis of the Group’s trade payables, prepared in accordance with the dates of invoices, is as follows:

US$’000

Below one month
Two to three months
Four to six months
Over six months

2013

171,269
122,463
6,102
3,995

2012

169,860
102,961
5,378
841

303,829

279,040 

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade payables are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Canadian dollar
Euro
Japanese yen
Hong Kong dollar
Renminbi
Other currencies

140

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

2013

166,848
13,976
27,877
26,061
3,311
22,168
43,588

2012

121,894
21,150
25,976
21,133
17,311
33,023
38,553

303,829

279,040

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39.  amounts due to jointly controlled entities

The amounts payable are unsecured, interest free and have no specific repayment terms.

40.  Commitments

Group

(a)  Capital commitments – property, plant and equipment

US$’000

Contracted but not provided for
Authorised but not contracted for

2013

722,055
333,750

2012

1,324,115
305,327

1,055,805

1,629,442

(b)  operating lease commitments

The future aggregate minimum lease rental expenses under non-cancellable operating leases are payable in the following 
years:

US$’000

At 31st December 2013
  2014
  2015
  2016
  2017
  2018
  2019 onwards

At 31st December 2012 (Restated)
  2013
  2014
  2015
  2016
  2017
  2018 onwards

Vessels and
equipment

land and
buildings

211,998
98,058
69,504
69,273
68,788
199,048

716,669

208,353
152,881
93,243
69,789
69,479
258,613

852,358

26,914
14,190
11,099
7,213
3,997
15,520

78,933

25,659
17,605
6,487
4,538
4,148
3,944

62,381

total

238,912
112,248
80,603
76,486
72,785
214,568

795,602

234,012
170,486
99,730
74,327
73,627
262,557

914,739

The Group entered into a Preferential Assignment Agreement (the “Agreement”) with the Port of Long Beach (“POLB”) 
for the use of the Middle Harbor Terminal (the “Terminal”) in Long Beach, California USA on 30th April 2012. The 
term of the Agreement is 40 years commencing on the 1st of July 2011. On 28th March 2013, the Group signed the 
First Amendment to Preferential Assignment Agreement (the “Amendment”) with POLB, which has amended certain 
terms within the Agreement and has altered the expected guaranteed minimum annual compensation to be made for 
the relevant period of the lease term.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

141

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40.  Commitments (Continued)

Group (Continued)

(b)  operating lease commitments (Continued)

The guaranteed minimum annual compensation is computed based on the guaranteed minimum annual compensation 
per  acreage  (ranging  from  US$180,000  to  US$270,000  in  the  first  5  years  of  the  lease)  multiplied  by  the  number 
of  acreages  of  the  Terminal  delivered,  which  is  subject  to  mutual  agreement  between  the  Group  and  POLB  along 
the  Terminal  construction  and  based  on  the  milestones  set  out  in  the  Agreement.  The  construction  is  expected  to 
be  completed  by  2019  and  the  estimated  number  of  acreages  of  the  Terminal  upon  completion  is  estimated  to  be 
approximately  304.7  acreages.  As  of  31st  December  2013,  the  acreages  of  the  Terminal  available  is  90.8  acres.  The 
Group and POLB will renegotiate the guaranteed minimum annual compensation per acre every 5 years which will 
not be less than the highest guaranteed minimum annual compensation in the previous 5 years. Comparative figures 
as at 31st December 2012 have been restated to conform with the latest terms of the Amendment.

(c)  operating lease rental receivable

The  future  aggregate  minimum  lease  rental  incomes  under  non-cancellable  operating  leases  are  receivable  in  the 
following years:

US$’000

As at 31st December 2013
  2014
  2015
  2016
  2017
  2018
  2019 onwards

As at 31st December 2012
  2013
  2014
  2015
  2016
  2017
  2018 onwards

Vessels and
equipment

land and
buildings

96,701
80,300
45,485
–
–
–

24,857
22,793
21,621
20,567
14,684
37,778

total

121,558
103,093
67,106
20,567
14,684
37,778

222,486

142,300

364,786

48,540
80,300
80,300
32,725
–
–

24,252
24,127
20,906
19,756
18,478
40,217

72,792
104,427
101,206
52,481
18,478
40,217

241,865

147,736

389,601

142

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
41.  financial guarantees

Group

The Group has not given any corporate guarantee as at 31st December 2013 (2012: nil).

Company

(a)  The  Company  has  given  corporate  guarantees  of  approximately  US$3,582.0  million  (2012:  US$3,199.8  million)  for 
its subsidiaries. As at 31st December 2013, the amounts utilised by the subsidiaries were US$3,534.4 million (2012: 
US$2,887.8 million).

(b)  The Company has given corporate guarantees for its subsidiaries in respect of future payment of operating lease rentals 

amounting to US$304.9 million (2012: US$367.4 million).

(c)  The  Company  has  given  corporate  guarantees  of  approximately  US$201.0  million  (2012:  US$249.2  million)  to  its 

subsidiaries in respect of the instalments of shipbuilding contracts.

The Directors consider that the subsidiaries are financially resourceful in settling the obligations.

42.  Notes to consolidated cash flow statement

(a)  reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations

US$’000

Operating profit
Interest income from banks
Interest income from portfolio and held-to-maturity investments
Dividend income from portfolio investments
Depreciation
Fair value loss/(gain) from portfolio investments
Fair value loss/(gain) from an investment property
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Dividend income from available-for-sale financial assets
Distribution from available-for-sale financial asset
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets
Amortisation of intangible assets
Amortisation of prepayments of lease premiums
Net gain on derivative financial instruments

Operating profit before working capital changes
Decrease/(increase) in inventories
Increase in debtors and prepayments
Increase in creditors and accruals
Change in net pension assets/liabilities
Settlement of derivative financial instruments

2013

90,314
(15,547)
(18,071)
(686)
302,884
9,828
6,923
(9,032)
(7,906)
(2,323)
(112)
8,427
490
(1,820)

363,369
3,727
(8,715)
120,221
(3,132)
1,745

Restated
2012

327,904
(23,612)
(15,439)
(639)
235,346
(17,310)
(543)
1,064
(42,633)
(1,101)
(331)
10,859
479
(2,578)

471,466
(3,658)
(74,671)
74,370
(7,384)
599

Cash generated from operations

477,215

460,722

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

143

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
42.  Notes to consolidated cash flow statement (Continued)

(b)  Major non-cash transactions

During  the  year,  major  non-cash  transactions  included  the  inception  of  finance  leases  of  US$409.7  million  (2012: 
US$39.8 million) and dividend received from available-for-sale financial assets of US$:nil (2012: US$34.7 million) in 
form of shares.

(c)  analysis of cash and cash equivalents

US$’000

Bank balances and deposits maturing within three months from 

the date of placement

Bank overdrafts

2013

2012

1,720,216
(314)

1,597,190
(172)

1,719,902

1,597,018 

43.  approval of accounts

The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 7th March 2014.

144

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

Subsidiaries 
Cargo System Warehouse and 
  Transport Ltd.

effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

100

Consolidated Leasing & Terminals, Inc.

100

Containers No. 1 Inc.

Containers No. 2 Inc.

100

100

Dongguan Orient Container Co. Ltd.

100

Far Gain Investment Ltd.

Glory Top Investment Ltd.

100

100

Hai Dong Transportation Co. Ltd.

100

Kenwake Ltd.

Laronda Company Ltd.

LBCT LLC

100

100

100

100

Long Beach Container Terminal, Inc.

100

Loyalton Shipping Limited

100

Maritime Delivery Services Inc.

100

particulars of issued share 
capital/ registered capital/
contributed cash capital

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

3,000 ordinary shares of 
HK$100 each 
HK$300,000

1 common stock of 
no par value 
US$100

10,000 ordinary shares of 
US$10 each 
US$100,000

10,000 ordinary shares of 
US$10 each 
US$100,000

Registered capital 
HK$29,000,000

10,000 ordinary shares of 
HK$1 each 
HK$10,000

10,000 ordinary shares of 
HK$1 each 
HK$10,000

100,000 ordinary shares of 
HK$1 each 
HK$100,000

1,600,000 ordinary shares of 
£1 each 
520,000 5% cumulative 
preference shares of £1 each 
£2,120,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

Capital of 
US$500,000

5,000 common stock of 
no par value 
US$500,000

500 ordinary shares of 
US$10 each 
US$5,000

1,000 common stock of 
US$10 each 
US$10,000

Investment holding and 
container transportation

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Investment holding, 
equipment owning and 
leasing

Equipment owning and 
leasing

USA

USA

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Equipment owning and 
leasing

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Container depot

China *

China

Investment holding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Portfolio investment

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Container transport

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Investment holding

United Kingdom United Kingdom

Portfolio investment

British Virgin 
Islands

Worldwide

Terminal operating

USA

Maintenance of union office 
workers and provision of 
labour services

USA

USA

USA

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Trucking service

USA

USA

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

145

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

particulars of issued share 
capital/ registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Subsidiaries  (Continued)
Newcontainer 2002 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2004 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 36 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 37 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 40 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 41 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 42 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 43 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 45 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 48 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 49 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 50 (Luxembourg) 
  Shipping S.à r.l.

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Newcontainer No. 5 Shipping Inc.

100

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

100 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$25,000

100 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$25,000

600 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$150,000

600 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$150,000

600 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$150,000

600 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$150,000

100 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$25,000

100 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$25,000

100 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$25,000

100 ordinary shares of 
US$250 each 
US$25,000

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

Ship owning and chartering

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning and chartering

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Liberia †

Worldwide

146

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

particulars of issued share 
capital/ registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Name of Company

Subsidiaries  (Continued)
Newcontainer No. 6 Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 9 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

100

Newcontainer No. 10 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 15 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 31 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 32 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 51 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 52 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 53 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 55 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 56 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 57 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 60 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 61 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

Ship owning

Liberia †

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

147

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

particulars of issued share 
capital/ registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Subsidiaries  (Continued)
Newcontainer No. 66 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 67 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 68 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 69 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 70 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 71 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 72 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 73 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 75 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 76 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 77 (Marshall Islands) 
  Shipping Inc.

100

OLL Logistics (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

100

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each
US$5,000

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

10,000 ordinary shares of 
RM1 each 
RM10,000

Logistics, cargo 
consolidation and 
forwarding

Malaysia

Malaysia

OOCL (Agencies) Ltd.

OOCL (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

100

100

200 ordinary shares of 
US$100 each 
US$20,000

2 ordinary shares of 
HK$1 each 
HK$2

Investment holding

Bermuda

Worldwide

Transportation

Hong Kong

Asia Pacific

148

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

Subsidiaries  (Continued)
OOCL (Assets) Holdings Inc.

effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

100

OOCL (Assets USA) Holdings Inc.

100

OOCL (Australia) Pty Ltd.

OOCL BENELUX

OOCL (Cambodia) Ltd.

OOCL (Canada) Inc.

100

100

100

100

OOCL (Corporate Services) Limited

100

OOCL (China) Investment Ltd.

100

OOCL (Denmark) A/S

OOCL (Europe) Ltd.

OOCL (Finland) Ltd. Oy

OOCL (France) SA

OOCL (India) Private Ltd.

100

100

100

100

100

OOCL (Infotech) Holdings Ltd.

100

particulars of issued share 
capital/ registered capital/
contributed cash capital

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

50,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$50,000

200,000 ordinary shares of 
A$1 each 
A$200,000

226,271 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
€609,799

50,000 ordinary shares of 
Riel4,000 each 
Riel200,000,000

10,000 common stock of 
no par value 
C$91,000

2 ordinary shares of 
HK$1 each 
HK$2

2 ordinary shares of 
HK$1 each 
HK$2

1,000 ordinary shares of 
DKK500 each 
DKK500,000

5,000,000 ordinary shares of 
£1 each 
£5,000,000

150 ordinary shares of 
€16.82 each 
€2,522.82

60,000 ordinary shares of 
€15.24 each 
€914,694.10

1,000 equity shares of 
Rupees100 each 
Rupees100,000

2 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$2

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Investment holding

Liberia †

USA

Liner agency

Australia

Australia

Liner agency

Belgium

Belgium

Liner agency

Cambodia

Cambodia

Liner agency

Canada

Canada

Provision of corporate 
services

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Investment holding

Hong Kong

China

Liner agency

Denmark

Northern Europe

Investment holding and 
liner territorial office

United Kingdom Europe

Liner agency

Finland

Finland

Liner agency

France

France

Liner agency

India

India

Investment holding

British Virgin 
Islands

Worldwide

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

149

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

particulars of issued share 
capital/ registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Name of Company

Subsidiaries  (Continued)
OOCL (Ireland) Ltd.

OOCL (Italy) S.r.l.

OOCL (Korea) Ltd.

100

100

100

OOCL (Liners) Holdings Ltd.

100

OOCL (Logistics) Holdings Ltd.

100

OOCL (New Zealand) Ltd.

100

OOCL Pakistan (Private) Ltd.

100

OOCL (Philippines) Inc.

OOCL (Poland) Ltd sp.z.o.o.

OOCL (Portugal), Lda

OOCL (Russia) Ltd.

OOCL (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

OOCL (Sweden) AB

OOCL (Switzerland) AG

100

100

100 
100

100

100

100

100

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

Liner agency

Ireland

Ireland

Liner agency

Italy

Italy

Liner agency

Korea

Korea

Investment holding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Investment holding

British Virgin 
Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

New Zealand

New Zealand

Liner agency

Pakistan

Pakistan

Liner agency

Philippines

Philippines

Liner agency

Poland

Poland

Liner agency

Portugal

Portugal

Liner agency

Russia

Russia

Liner agency

Singapore

Singapore

Liner agency

Sweden

Sweden

Liner agency

Switzerland

Switzerland

100 ordinary shares of 
€1.25 each 
€125

1 quota of €10,000 each 
€10,000

16,000 common stock of 
Won10,000 each 
Won160,000,000

2 ordinary shares of 
HK$1 each 
HK$2

10,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$10,000

100 ordinary shares of 
NZD10 each 
NZD1,000

1,350,000 ordinary shares of 
PKR10 each 
PKR13,500,000

55,000 common stock of 
Peso100 each 
Peso5,500,000

1,000 ordinary shares of 
PLN50 each 
PLN50,000

1 quota of €24,500 each 
1 quota of €500 each 
€25,000

1 participatory share of 
Rub10,000 each 
Rub10,000

100,000 ordinary shares of 
S$1 each 
S$100,000

100,000 ordinary shares of 
SEK1 each 
SEK100,000

200,000 ordinary shares of 
CHF1 each 
CHF200,000

150

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

Subsidiaries  (Continued)
OOCL (Taiwan) Co. Ltd.

effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

100

particulars of issued share 
capital/ registered capital/
contributed cash capital

10,000,000 ordinary shares of 
NT$10 each 
NT$100,000,000

OOCL (Terminals) Investment Ltd.

100

OOCL (USA) Inc.

OOCL (Vietnam) Co. Ltd.

OOCL China Domestics Ltd.

OOCL Logistics Limited

OOCL LLC

100

100

100

100

100

OOCL Logistics (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (Australia) Pty. Limited

100

OOCL Logistics (Cambodia) Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (Canada) Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (China) Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (Europe) Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (Hong Kong) Ltd.

100

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

Liner agency

Taiwan

Taiwan

Investment holding

British Virgin 
Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

USA

USA

Liner agency

Vietnam

Vietnam

500 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$500

1,030 common stock of 
US$1 each 
US$1,030

Legal capital 
US$500,000

Registered capital 
RMB21,250,000

Freight agency and cargo 
consolidation

China ±

China

10,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$10,000

Investment holding

British Virgin 
Islands

Hong Kong

Capital of 
US$500,000

Investment holding and 
equipment owning

USA

USA

200 ordinary shares of 
US$100 each 
US$20,000

200,000 ordinary shares of 
A$1 each 
A$200,000

1,250 ordinary shares of 
Riel4,000 each 
Riel5,000,000

1,000 common stock of 
C$1 each 
C$1,000

Registered capital 
US$4,840,000

2 ordinary shares of 
£1 each 
£2

50,000 ordinary shares of 
HK$10 each 
HK$500,000

Bermuda

Asia Pacific

Investment holding, 
management of 
international transportation 
and logistics

Logistics, cargo 
consolidation and 
forwarding

Logistics, cargo 
consolidation and 
forwarding

Logistics, cargo 
consolidation and 
forwarding

Logistics, cargo 
consolidation and 
forwarding

Logistics, cargo 
consolidation and 
forwarding

Logistics, cargo 
consolidation and 
forwarding

Australia

Australia

Cambodia

Cambodia

Canada

Canada

China *

China

United Kingdom Europe

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

151

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

Subsidiaries  (Continued)
OOCL Logistics (India) Private Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (Japan) Ltd.

100

100

OOCL Logistics (Korea) Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics Mexico, S.A. de CV

100

OOCL Logistics (Russia) Limited

100

OOCL Logistics (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

100

effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

particulars of issued share 
capital/ registered capital/
contributed cash capital

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

35,000 equity shares of 
Rupee100 each 
Rupee3,500,000

200 ordinary shares of 
yen50,000 each 
yen10,000,000

30,000 common stock of 
Won10,000 each 
Won300,000,000

10 minimum fixed capital shares 
of Peso1 each 
499,990 variable capital shares of 
Peso1 each 
Peso500,000

1 share of Rub 10,000 each 
Rub10,000

2 ordinary shares of 
S$1 each 
S$2

Logistics, cargo 
consolidation and 
forwarding

Logistics, cargo 
consolidation and 
forwarding

Logistics, cargo 
consolidation and 
forwarding

Logistics, cargo 
consolidation and 
forwarding

Logistics, cargo 
consolidation and 
forwarding

Logistics, cargo 
consolidation and 
forwarding 

India

India

Japan

Japan

Korea

Korea

Mexico

Mexico

Russia

Russia

Singapore

Singapore

OOCL Logistics (Taiwan) Ltd.

100

4,250,000 ordinary shares of 
NT$10 each 
NT$42,500,000

Logistics, cargo 
consolidation and 
forwarding

Taiwan

Taiwan

OOCL Logistics (USA) Inc.

100

OOCL Logistics Line Limited 

100

OOCL Logistics Warehousing and 
  Transportation (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.

OOCL Logistics Warehousing and 
  Transportation (Tianjin) Co. Ltd. 

# OOCL Transport & Logistics 
  Holdings Ltd.

100

100

100

OOCL Warehousing (Shanghai) Limited

100

100 common stock of 
no par value 
US$200

2 ordinary shares of 
HK$1 each 
HK$2

Registered capital 
US$1,000,000 

Registered capital 
US$4,700,000 

169,477,152 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$169,477,152

Registered capital 
US$10,000,000

Logistics, cargo 
consolidation, forwarding 
and investment holding

USA

Worldwide

Ocean freight forwarding

Hong Kong

Worldwide

Warehousing

China *

China

Warehousing, transportation 
and logistics services

China *

China

Investment holding

Bermuda

Worldwide

Warehousing, freight 
forwarding and logistics 
services

China *

China

152

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

particulars of issued share 
capital/ registered capital/
contributed cash capital

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Limited partnership

Property owning

Property owning

USA

USA

USA

USA

Name of Company

Subsidiaries  (Continued)
# OOIL (Investments) Inc.

Orient Overseas Associates

Orient Overseas Building Corp.

Orient Overseas Container Line 

(China) Co. Ltd.

Orient Overseas Container Line 

(Europe) Ltd.

100

100

100

100

100

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(Spain), S.L. 

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(UK) Ltd.

Orient Overseas Container Line Inc.

100

Orient Overseas Container Line Ltd.

100

Planet Era Limited

Shanghai OOCL Container 
  Transportation Co. Ltd.

Soberry Investments Ltd.

Union Faith (H.K.) Limited

100

60

100

100

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

10 common stock of 
no par value 
US$150,000

Registered capital 
US$2,800,000

66,000,000 ordinary shares of 
£1 each 
£66,000,000

500,000 ordinary shares of 
RM1 each 
RM500,000

3,100 ordinary shares of 
€1 each 
€3,100

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$25,000,000

10,000 ordinary shares of 
HK$100 each 
HK$1,000,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

Registered capital 
US$9,350,000

5,000 ordinary shares of 
US$1 each 
US$5,000

1 ordinary share of 
HK$1 each 
HK$1

Liner agency

China *

China

Investment holding

United Kingdom United Kingdom

Liner agency

Malaysia

Malaysia

Liner agency

Spain

Spain

Container transport and 
ship management

Cayman Islands Worldwide

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Container transport

Hong Kong

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Container depot

China §

China 

Portfolio investment

British Virgin 
Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning and chartering

Hong Kong

Worldwide

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

153

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Company

Subsidiaries  (Continued)
Wall Street Plaza, Inc.

effective 
percentage 
held by 
Group

particulars of issued share 
capital/ registered capital/
contributed cash capital

100

100

100

100

100

100

40 class A common stock of 
US$1 each
160 class B common stock of 
US$1 each
20,000 12% series A 
non-cumulative 
non-voting preferred stock of 
US$1,000 each
18,000 11% series B 
non-cumulative 
non-voting preferred stock of 
US$1,000 each
19,500 12% series C 
non-cumulative 
non-voting preferred stock of 
US$1,000 each
19,000 12% series D 
non-cumulative 
non-voting preferred stock of 
US$1,000 each 
US$76,500,200

500 ordinary shares of 
no par value 
US$5,000

principal activities

Country of 
incorporation

area of 
operations

Investment holding

USA

USA

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Terminal operating

China §

China

Terminal operating

China §

China

Liner agency

Dubai

Dubai

Container depot

China §

China

Wealth Capital Corporation

100

associated companies
Ningbo yuan Dong Terminal Co. Ltd.

Tianjin Port Alliance International 
  Container Terminal Co. Ltd.

jointly controlled entities
OOCL (UAE) LLC

Qingdao Orient International Container 
  Storage & Transportation Co. Ltd.

20

20

49

59

Registered capital 
RMB2,185,000,000

Registered capital 
US$160,000,000

300 ordinary shares of 
AED1,000 each 
AED300,000

Registered capital 
RMB69,900,000

# 

† 

Direct subsidiaries of the Company.

Companies incorporated in Liberia but redomiciled to the Marshall Islands.

*  Wholly foreign-owned enterprise.

§ 

± 

Sino-foreign equity joint venture enterprise.

Domestic joint venture enterprise.

154

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Jointly Controlled Entitiesas at 31st December 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
fleet

The following table sets out the Group’s vessels as at 31st December 2013.

VeSSel NaMe

NyK Hercules
NyK Hermes
NyK Hyperion
OOCL America
OOCL Australia
OOCL Bangkok
OOCL Beijing
OOCL Belgium
OOCL California
OOCL Canada
OOCL Charleston
OOCL Chicago
OOCL Chongqing
OOCL Dalian
OOCL Guangzhou
OOCL Le Havre
OOCL London
OOCL Long Beach
OOCL Luxembourg
OOCL Memphis
OOCL Miami
OOCL Nagoya
OOCL New york
OOCL Norfolk
OOCL Rotterdam
OOCL San Francisco
OOCL Seoul
OOCL Shanghai
OOCL Shenzhen
OOCL Washington
OOCL Zhoushan
NyK Helios
OOCL Asia
OOCL Atlanta
OOCL Berlin
OOCL Brisbane
OOCL Brussels
OOCL Busan
OOCL Europe (Note)
OOCL Hamburg
OOCL Houston
OOCL Jakarta
OOCL Kobe
OOCL Montreal
OOCL New Zealand

teU 
CapaCitY

oWNerSHip

13,208
13,208
13,208
5,344
4,583
13,208
8,888
2,808
5,344
8,888
4,578
5,714
13,208
4,578
4,578
4,578
8,063
8,063
8,063
8,888
8,888
4,578
5,560
4,578
8,063
5,714
8,063
5,560
8,063
8,063
4,583
13,208
8,063
8,063
13,208
4,578
13,208
4,578
8,063
8,063
4,578
4,578
4,578
4,402
4,578

Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease

SerViCe iN 
WHiCH USeD

N/A
N/A
N/A
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
N/A
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
N/A
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Asia-Australia- 
New Zealand

Date 
plaCeD iN 
SerViCe

2013
2013
2013
1995
2006
2013
2011
1998
1995
2011
2010
2000
2013
2009
2010
2010
2010
2003
2010
2013
2013
2009
1999
2009
2004
2000
2010
1999
2003
2010
2006
2013
2006
2005
2013
2009
2013
2008
2006
2004
2007
2010
2007
2003
2009

flaG

Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

155

Fleet and Container Information 
 
 
 
 
 
VeSSel NaMe

OOCL Ningbo (Note)
OOCL Panama
OOCL Qingdao (Note)
OOCL Savannah
OOCL Southampton
OOCL Texas
OOCL Tianjin
OOCL Tokyo
OOCL yokohama
Adelheid-S
Bonny

Canada Express 

(ex. OOCL Dubai)

City of Xiamen

Corinthiakos
COSCO Beijing (Note)
COSCO Kaohsiung (Note)
COSCO Oceania (Note)
E.R. Denver
Italy Express 

(ex. OOCL Vancouver)

Japan (ex. OOCL Japan)
Juliette Rickmers
King Bruce
Lindavia
Lobivia
Navi Baltic
Nordic Philip
Nordic Stani
NyK Pegasus
NyK Phoenix
Olympia
OOCL Antwerp
OOCL Britain
OOCL China
OOCL Hong Kong
OOCL Istanbul 

(ex ZIM Kingston)

OOCL Kaohsiung
OOCL Kuala Lumpur
OOCL Netherlands
OOCL Novorossiysk 
(ex ZIM Dalian)

OOCL Oakland
OOCL Rauma (ex. Elysee)

teU 
CapaCitY

8,063
4,578
8,063
4,578
8,063
4,578
8,063
8,063
4,578
3,398
2,674

5,888

2,564

4,398
9,469
10,020
10,020
5,043
5,888

5,344
5,060
1,710
2,078
2,082
1,421
1,036
1,036
6,200
6,200
2,702
5,888
5,344
5,344
5,344
4,253

5,888
5,888
5,390
4,253

5,888
1,440

oWNerSHip

Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Chartered
Chartered

Chartered

Chartered

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Chartered
Chartered

SerViCe iN 
WHiCH USeD

N/A
Asia-Australia
N/A
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia- 
New Zealand
Intra-Asia

Asia-Australia- 
New Zealand
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific

Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Intra-Europe
Intra-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe

Trans-Atlantic
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe

Trans-Pacific
Intra-Europe

Date 
plaCeD iN 
SerViCe

2004
2008
2004
2010
2007
2008
2005
2007
2007
2012
2013

2006

2013

2013
2013
2013
2013
2012
2006

1996
2012
2009
2012
2013
2013
2011
2012
2012
2013
2013
2006
1996
1996
1995
2013

2006
2007
1997
2013

2007
2012

flaG

Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Antigua & Barbuda
Antigua & Barbuda

Singapore

Antigua & Barbuda

Liberia
Greece
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Liberia
Panama

Hong Kong
Liberia
Marshall Islands
Liberia
Liberia
Cyprus
Cyprus
Cyprus
Panama
Panama
Liberia
Panama
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Malta

Singapore
Singapore
Hong Kong
Malta

Panama
The Netherlands

156

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Fleet and Container Information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VeSSel NaMe

OOCL Taichung 

(ex. Sinar Batam)

Pacific Trader
Paola
Perla
Sattha Bhum
SFL Avon
Singapore 

(ex. OOCL Singapore)

Sonderborg Strait
Spirit of Bangkok
Stadt Lauenburg
Star of Luck
Teng yun He
Vietnam Express 

(ex. OOCL Italy)

Warnow Chief
X-Press Padma
total 101 VeSSelS

teU 
CapaCitY

oWNerSHip

SerViCe iN 
WHiCH USeD

Date 
plaCeD iN 
SerViCe

1,560

1,118
1,100
1,118
2,732
1,740
5,390

1,085
1,620
1,049
1,645
1,702
5,888

1,500
1,645
573,127 

Chartered

Intra-Asia

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Chartered
Chartered

Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia

Intra-Europe
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific

Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia

2008

2013
2012
2012
2012
2012
1997

2012
2013
2013
2013
2009
2007

2013
2013

flaG

Hong Kong

Cyprus
Antigua & Barbuda
Marshall Islands
Singapore
Marshall Islands
Hong Kong

Antigua & Barbuda
Marshall Islands
Antigua & Barbuda
Liberia
China
Singapore

Cyprus
Liberia

Note:  As at 31st December 2013, OOCL Europe, OOCL Ningbo and OOCL Qingdao were chartered out to COSCO Container Lines Co., Ltd. and COSCO 

Kaohsiung, COSCO Oceania and COSCO Beijing were chartered in from COSCO Container Lines Co., Ltd. under swapping program.

Container information

The Group owned, purchased on finance lease terms or leased under operating lease agreements 522,567 units (840,752 TEU) 
as of 31st December 2013. Approximately 73.80% of the container fleet in TEU capacity was owned or purchased under finance 
leases with the remainder leased under operating lease agreements.

In addition, at 31st December 2013 the Group owned or leased under operating lease terms 3,031 trailer chassis.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

157

Fleet and Container Information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
long Beach Container terminal, llC. (lBCt llC)

location:

Long Beach, California, USA

Status of terminal:
A 90.8 acre, three berth container facility operated under a long-term preferential 

use agreement from the Port of Long Beach.

equipment/facilities:
Three  container-vessel  berths;  seven  Post-Panamax  quayside  container  gantry 
cranes;  five  side  picks;  12  rubber-tired  gantry  cranes;  75  yard  tractors;  11  top 
handlers;  12  utility  forklifts;  56  yard  chassis;  various  pick-up  trucks  and  other 
vehicles and handling equipment.

Building facilities:
13,000 sq ft main office building; 3,200 sq ft marine operations building; 9,600 

sq ft repair shop.

principal Customers:

OOCL, NyK, Hapag Lloyd

Kaohsiung Container terminal (KaoCt)

location:

Pier 65 and 66 Kaohsiung Harbour, Kaohsiung, Taiwan

Status of terminal:
As one of the original container facilities in the Kaohsiung Harbour, the Kaohsiung 
Container Terminal has deep-water berths of 14.5 meters and the entire facility 
has been modernized since 2002 and upgraded in 2012 with the ability to handle 

two 10,000-TEU vessels at the same time.

equipment/facilities:
Two  container-vessel  berths  (760  meters  long)  on  a  total  of  approximately  56 
acres  operating  24-hour,  7-days  a  week  basis  for  vessel  and  gate  activities:  Six 
Post-Panamax quay cranes including four with 19 rows and two with 22 rows of 
twin 20 ft lifting capacity; 18 rail-mounted gantry cranes; 5 empty stackers and 
various shipside handling equipment.

To  further  enhance  services  and  improve  efficiency,  terminal  upgrade  projects 
will continue to be carried out which include the completion of an expansion of 
the container storage area by 1,500 TEU in January 2014. After the completion of 
these projects, the rail-mounted gantry cranes will be able to handle 1.4 million 
TEU per annum and carbon emission will be further reduced.

Building facilities (approximate area):
2,174  sqm  office  building,  7,000  sqm  container  freight  station,  720  sqm 

maintenance building

principal Customers:
ANL, APL, COSCO, CSCL, EMC, HPL, HyMM, MOSK, NyK, OOCL, PIL, WHL, 

yMI, ZIM and various feeder operators.

158

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Terminal InformationUS$’000

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

Consolidated profit and loss Data
Revenue
Operating profit/(loss)
Finance costs
Profit/(loss) before taxation
Profit/(loss) for the year from 
  continuing operations
Profit/(loss) for the year from 
  discontinued operations
Profit/(loss) for the year
Profit/(loss) attributable to 
  ordinary shareholders
Per Ordinary Share
  Earnings/(loss) (US cents)

from continuing operations
from discontinued operations

Dividends (US cents)
Weighted average number of ordinary 

4,140,328
729,008
(43,787)
696,337

4,345,647
693,563
(55,744)
644,685

4,609,751
621,364
(71,721)
553,218

5,651,030
687,437
(99,078)
592,024

6,530,855
397,764
(81,016)
322,546

4,350,195
(332,237)
(35,347)
(361,870)

6,033,402
918,807
(29,091)
898,776

6,011,836
174,598
(26,179)
162,457

6,459,059
327,904
(32,877)
310,134

6,231,583
90,314
(41,019)
66,999

670,598

615,198

528,335

553,749

297,569

(376,104)

869,817

139,354

296,317

47,133

–
670,598

36,093
651,291

52,805
581,140

1,994,653
2,548,402

(22,040)
275,529

(24,501) 1,004,554
(400,605) 1,874,371

43,000
182,354

–
296,317

–
47,133

670,449

650,854

580,603

2,546,979

272,337

(402,294) 1,866,780

181,645

295,387

47,036

108.5
–
27.27

98.2
5.8
27.00

84.4
8.4
103.00

88.3
318.7
103.00

47.1
(3.6)
11.00

(60.4)
(3.9)
–

137.8
160.5
283.80

22.1
6.9
7.00

47.2
–
11.84

7.5
–
1.88

shares in issue (‘000)

618,024

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

Consolidated Balance Sheet Data
Property, plant and equipment
Liquid assets
Assets held for sale
Liabilities directly associated with assets
  classified as held for sale
Other net current (liabilities)/assets
Total assets
Long-term debt
Total long and short-term debt
Net debt/(liquid assets)
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

other financial information
Depreciation
Capital expenditure

2,132,066
1,105,011
–

2,593,946
1,286,579
–

2,777,004
1,167,924
406,232

3,350,844
2,244,865
–

3,780,945
2,077,087
–

3,798,048
1,354,387
1,268,254

3,860,367
4,132,897
–

4,205,194
2,413,132
–

4,664,773
2,339,531
–

5,320,251
2,411,085
–

–
(227,924)
4,014,602
1,427,690
1,581,499
476,488
1,809,409

–
(165,629)
4,814,916
1,650,044
1,838,592
552,013
2,284,330

(178,992)
56,348
5,600,003
1,870,890
2,068,798
900,874
2,727,206

–
75,034
7,213,644
1,864,436
2,206,184
(38,681)
4,176,368

–
342,756
7,701,635
2,218,251
2,372,146
295,059
4,387,071

–
(142,406)
(475,304)
(582,807)
9,075,183
7,330,174
2,416,367
2,135,967
2,568,022
2,664,122
1,213,635 (1,468,775)
5,548,446
3,944,684

–
(543,133)
7,711,478
2,233,095
2,672,206
259,074
4,233,468

–
(654,625)
8,231,039
2,325,777
2,881,530
541,999
4,481,815

–
(473,105)
8,990,218
3,265,555
3,533,865
1,122,780
4,470,807

144,860
806,491

157,302
635,494

178,761
633,128

173,988
752,903

181,898
650,568

207,275
380,161

255,010
345,255

242,534
744,603

235,346
784,562

302,884
999,451

Consolidated financial ratios/percentages
Debt to equity ratio
Net debt/(cash) to equity ratio
Return/(loss) on average ordinary

shareholders’ equity (%)

Accounts payable as a % of revenue
Accounts receivable as a % of revenue
Net asset value per ordinary share (US$)

0.87
0.26

45.9
13.4
8.7
2.89

Note:

0.80
0.24

31.8
13.9
9.6
3.65

0.76
0.33

23.2
12.2
8.3
4.36

0.53
(0.01)

73.8
13.3
12.3
6.67

0.54
0.07

6.4
12.8
6.7
7.01

0.65
0.31

(9.7)
13.8
8.7
6.30

0.48
(0.26)

39.3
12.6
7.5
8.87

0.63
0.06

3.7
11.8
7.8
6.76

0.64
0.12

6.8
12.1
8.4
7.16

0.79
0.25

1.1
14.5
8.9
7.14

(1)  The results of discontinued operations prior to 2008 have not been restated or reclassified.

(2)  The accounting policy on HKAS 12 ‘Income taxes’ was changed in 2012 and the figures prior to 2010 have not been restated to reflect this change.

(3)  The accounting policy on HKAS 19 Amendment ‘Employee Benefits’ was changed in 2013 and the figures prior to 2011 have not been restated to 

reflect this change.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

159

10-Year Financial Summary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
executive Directors

principal registrar

Solicitors

MUFG Fund Services 
(Bermuda) Limited
  26 Burnaby Street
  Hamilton HM11
  Bermuda

Branch registrar

Computershare Hong Kong Investor
Services Limited
  Shops 1712-1716, 17th Floor
  Hopewell Centre
  183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai
  Hong Kong

listing exchange

The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong 
Limited
Stock Code: 316

Website

http://www.ooilgroup.com

Conyers Dill & Pearman
  Clarendon House
  2 Church Street
  Hamilton HM11
  Bermuda

  and at

  2901 One Exchange Square
  8 Connaught Place
  Central
  Hong Kong

Ince & Co
  Rooms 3801-6, 38th Floor

ICBC Tower, Citibank Plaza

  3 Garden Road, Central
  Hong Kong

Slaughter and May
  47th Floor, Jardine House
  One Connaught Place
  Central
  Hong Kong

Major Bankers

auditor

PricewaterhouseCoopers
Certified Public Accountants
  22nd Floor
  Prince’s Building, Central
  Hong Kong

Bank of Amercia, N.A.
Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited
Citibank, N.A.
HSBC Holdings plc
HSH Nordbank
National Australia Bank Limited
Overseas-Chinese Banking 
  Corporation Limited
Standard Chartered Bank 
(Hong Kong) Limited

Mr. TUNG Chee Chen

(Chairman, President and

  Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan

(Acting Chief Financial Officer)

Non-executive Directors

Professor Roger KING
Mr. CHOW Philip yiu Wah

independent  Non-executive 
Directors

Mr. Simon MURRAy
Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest
Professor WONG yue Chim Richard
Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward

Company Secretary

Ms. LEE Chee Fun Lammy

authorised representatives

Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan
Ms. LEE Chee Fun Lammy

principal office

33rd Floor
Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road, Wanchai
Hong Kong

registered office

Clarendon House
2 Church Street
Hamilton HM11
Bermuda

160

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 

 Annual Report 2013

Corporate Information 
 
 
 
Orient Overseas (International) Limited
(Incorporated in Bermuda with Limited Liability)

33rd Floor Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong   Telephone: (852) 2833 3838
www.ooilgroup.com

Design and Production by: Toppan Vite Limited

This report is printed on paper in accordance with the standards below

Acid Free     Lignin Free     Dioxin Free     Biodegradable     ISO9001     ISO14001

