2016

ANNUAL REPORT

(Incorporated in Bermuda with Limited Liability)
Stock code: 316

Corporate Profile

Corporate Profile

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (“OOIL”),  a  company  with  US$5.3  billion  in  total  revenues,  has  principal  business 

activities  in  container  transport  and  logistics  services.  Listed  on  The  Stock  Exchange  of  Hong  Kong,  the  OOIL  Group  has 

more than 330 offices in 70 countries.

Orient  Overseas  Container  Line  and  OOCL  are  trade  names  for  transportation  provided  separately  by  Orient  Overseas 

Container  Line  Limited  (“OOCLL”)  and  OOCL  (Europe)  Limited  respectively  and  both  are  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  of 

OOIL. OOCL is one of the world’s largest integrated international transportation, logistics and terminal companies, and is an 

industry leader in the use of information technology and e-commerce to manage the entire cargo transport process. OOCL’s 

modern fleet today includes some of the youngest, largest, fuel efficient, and environmentally friendly vessels carrying cargo 

on hundreds of trade routes around the world, providing a vital link in Global Trade.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
Contents

1
2
3
10
14
18
24
34
50
54
56

59
83

91
92
98

164

Contents
Financial Highlights
Significant Events – 2016
Chairman’s Letter
Operations Review
Major Customers and Suppliers
Corporate Responsibility
Financial Review
Board of Directors
Senior Management
Shareholder Section
56  Financial Calendar
57  Shareholder Information
Corporate Governance Report
Report of the Directors

Index – Financial Information
Independent Auditor’s Report
Consolidated Financial Statements
98  Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
99  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
100  Consolidated Balance Sheet
102  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
103  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
104  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
156  Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
Other Information
164  Fleet and Container Information
167  10-Year Financial Summary
168  Corporate Information

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

1

 
Financial Highlights

Financial Highlights

US$M

Consolidated Profit and Loss 
Revenue
Operating (loss)/profit
Revaluation of Wall Street Plaza
Finance costs
(Loss)/profit for the year

Consolidated Balance Sheet
Liquid assets
Property, plant and equipment
Total assets
Borrowings
Total liabilities
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

Consolidated Net Cash Flow
Operating activities
Investing activities
Financing activities
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents

Key Ratios
Operating margin
Gross debt to equity
Net debt to equity
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
(Loss)/earnings per ordinary share (US cents)
Net asset value per ordinary share (US dollar)

2016

5,298
(138)
19
(79)
(219)

2,187
6,077
9,405
4,091
4,886
4,519

68
53
(240)
(119)

(3%)
0.91
0.42
(5%)
(35.0)
7.22

2015

5,953
353
20
(64)
284

2,549
6,021
9,732
4,102
4,934
4,798

458
(274)
(386)
(202)

6%
0.85
0.32
6%
45.4
7.67

Increase/
(decrease) %

(11%)
N/M
(5%)
23%
N/M

(14%)
1%
(3%)
(0%)
(1%)
(6%)

(85%)
N/M
(38%)
(41%)

N/M
6%
10%
N/M
N/M
(5.9%)

US$M

300

200

100

0

-100

-200

-300

10%

5%

0%

-5%

-10%

US$

10

8

6

4

2

0

10%

8%

6%

4%

2%

0%

-2%

-4%

-6%

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

(Loss)/profit for the year (L.H.S.)

Operating margin (R.H.S.)

Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share (L.H.S.)

Return on Average Ordinary Shareholders’ Equity (R.H.S.)

2

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
     
     
     
     
 
Significant Events - 2016

Significant Events - 2016

JANUARY  1   2   3   4   5  

1

•  OOIL became the first Hong Kong company in the industry to be listed on the “FTSE4Good 
Global  Index.”  Established  since  2001  the  Index  is  one  of  the  world’s  most  recognised 
and  respected  indices  measuring  the  performance  of  companies  demonstrating  strong 
Environmental,  Social  and  Governance  (ESG)  standards  for  investors  committed  to  socially 
responsible investments.

2

3

•  CargoSmart  announced  premium  features  to 
its  sailing  schedule  search  engine  called  “Big 
Schedules”.  Available  on  a  subscription  basis,  the 
new  features  offer  helpful  information,  such  as 
shipping  schedules  and  vessel  tracking,  for  shippers 
and  logistics  service  providers  to  gain  deeper 
insights into their shipment planning.

•  OOCL  Logistics  announced  the  grand  opening  of 
a  new  logistics  centre  in  Guangzhou  of  Guangdong 
province on 15th January as part of the strategic plan 
to  enhance  logistics  capabilities  and  ensure  quality 
services in the domestic logistics business in China.

5

4

•  To  expand  business  opportunities,  OOCL 
Logistics  established  its  Cold  Chain  Logistics 
Center,  a  four-block  multi-temperature  zone 
controlled  facility,  located  at  the  Kunming 
Economic  and  Technology  Development  Zone 
in southern China’s Yunnan province.

•  On  28th  January,  OOCL  received  an  Award  for  “Asia’s  Best  Corporate  Social  Responsibility  (CSR)  Communication  within 

Annual Report” at the Asia Sustainability Reporting Awards Ceremony organised by CSRWorks International in Singapore.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

3

 
Significant Events - 2016

FEBRUARY  6   7  

•  In  appre c i at i on  of  O O C L’s 
efforts  towards  environmental 
protection,  the  “Hong  Kong 
Green  Organization”  certificate 
was  awarded  by  the  Hong  Kong 
Green Organization Certification 
program  jointly  established  by 
11  public  bodies  in  Hong  Kong, 
including  the  Environmental 
Protection  Department  of  the 
Hong Kong SAR Government.

6

7

•  OOCL  announced  that  no  cargo  bookings  for  whale,  shark, 
dolphin,  and  their  related  products  will  be  accepted  with 
immediate  effect.  This  new  global  policy  helps  reinforce 
OOCL’s  commitment  to  sustainability  and  best  practices  in 
the industry.

MARCH  8

•  On  1st  March,  OOCL  and  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal 
received  the  “Golden  Vessel  Awards”  from  the  Taiwan 
International  Ports  Corporation  for  operationally  efficient 
and  environmentally  friendly  initiatives  in  reducing 
emissions.

•  Orient Overseas (International) Limited and its subsidiaries 
announced a profit attributable to equity holders for 2015 of 
US$283.9 million, compared to a profit of US$270.5 million 
in 2014.

8

4

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Significant Events - 2016

APRIL  9

•  On 20th April, OOCL joined three other leading container shipping 
lines to sign a Memorandum of Understanding to form the OCEAN 
Alliance,  offering  competitive  products  and  comprehensive  service 
networks  covering  the  Asia-Europe,  Asia-Mediterranean,  Asia-
Red  Sea,  Asia-Middle  East,  Trans-Pacific,  Asia-North  America 
East  Coast,  and  Trans-Atlantic  trades.  The  new  extensive  OCEAN 
Alliance Service Networks will commence in April 2017.

9

MAY  10

•  On  31st  May,  OOCL  received  5  Awards  and  11  Certificates  from  the  Hong 
Kong  Observatory,  World  Meteorological  Organization  and  Intergovernmental 
Oceanographic  Commission  of  UNESCO  for  providing  vital  weather  related  data 
that contributed to ship navigational safety and climate change research in the South 
China Sea.

10

11

JULY  11  12  13  14  15

•  On 1st July, Mr. C C Tung, Chairman of OOIL was awarded 
with  the  Gold  Bauhinia  Star  by  the  Hong  Kong  SAR 
Government  for  his  long  and  distinguished  public  services, 
particularly his dedicated support and notable contributions 
to the development of the logistics and maritime industries 
over the past years.

12

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

5

Significant Events - 2016

•  Under the newly formed Asia Australia Consortium (A3) where OOCL is a member, a joint announcement was made to launch 
three dedicated services, namely the Northern Express, Central Express and Southern Express, connecting 10 major North East 
Asia ports with Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane in Australia.

•  O O C L  an nou nc e d  t he 
introduction  of  a  new 
Asia-Adriatic  service  to 
enhance  the  Asia-Europe 
network.  It  is  the  only 
dedicated  ser vice  with 
coverage  between  Asia 
and  the  Adriatic  region, 
including  Italy,  Slovenia 
and  Croatia,  on  top  of  its 
extensive  inland  network 
t h r o u g h o u t   C e n t r a l 
Europe.

13

14

•  OOCL took a further step forward in Greenhouse Gas (GHG) reporting by extending the scope 
to  include  container  terminals,  namely  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal,  LLC.  in  the  United 
States  and  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in  Taiwan.  By  extending  the  data  disclosure  and 
verification to the terminals is an excellent example of OOCL’s commitment to sustainability in 
the global supply chain.

•  On 21st July, more than 20 OOCL vessels received the Automated Mutual-Assistance Vessel Rescue System (AMVER) Awards 
for the year 2015 at the annual Hong Kong Shipowners Association Luncheon and AMVER Awards Ceremony, during which the 
United States Coast Guard acknowledged and thanked all those who supported the AMVER mission over the years.

•  OOCL  Logistics  announced  the  expansion  of  the  Airfreight  Forwarding  business 
unit to offer a wider range of air services to transport customer’s time sensitive cargo 
more efficiently and cost effectively.

15

6

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Significant Events - 2016

16

AUGUST  16  17

•  O O C L  an nou nc e d  t he 
extension  of  an  existing 
ser vice  between  China 
and  Ho  Chi  Minh/Laem 
C h a b a n g   ( C H L )   b y 
forming  two  loops,  the 
North  PRC/South  PRC 
shuttle  and  the  Central 
P R C   s h u t t l e   w h e r e 
p or t  calls  to  Incheon, 
N i n g b o   a n d   X i a m e n 
w o u l d   b e   i n c l u d e d . 
The  enhanced  ser vices 
o f f e r s   c o m p r e h e n s i v e 
por t  connections  with 
competitive  transit  times 
between  China  and  Ho 
Chi Minh/Laem Chabang.

•  Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  and  its  subsidiaries  announced  its  Interim  results  with  a  loss  attributable  to  equity 
holders, after tax and non-controlling interests, of US$56.7 million for the six-month period ended 30th June 2016, compared to 
a profit of US$238.6 million for the same period in 2015.

17

•  OOCL was recognised as a “Gold Winner” in the 2016 Pre-shipment Declaration Awards Scheme, 
the first award program launched by the Hong Kong Customs and Excise Department for Sea Cargo 
Carriers.  The  Scheme  recognises  companies  that  take  proactive  steps  to  submit  cargo  information 
to  the  Department  well  in  advance  for  improvements  to  the  overall  efficiency  of  custom  clearance 
which  thereby  facilitates  international  trade  and  helps  sustain  Hong  Kong’s  competitiveness  as  a 
logistic hub.

SEPTEMBER  18

•  CargoSmart  proudly  introduced  BoxSnap,  a  free  smartphone  app 
that  allows  users  to  easily  collect  and  share  the  container  weight 
information  of  their  shipments  to  comply  with  the  Safety  of  Life  at 
Sea  Convention’s  Verified  Gross  Mass  (VGM)  requirements.  This 
innovative  app  simplifies  and  expedites  the  process  for  shippers, 
truckers and cargo weighing parties to obtain the VGM information 
in  order  to  ensure  full  compliance  and  smooth  cargo  flow  in  the 
supply chain.

18

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

7

Significant Events - 2016

OCTOBER  19  20  21

•  On  7th  October,  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal,  together 
with  the  Port  of  Long  Beach,  was  honored  to  accept  the 
prestigious Clean Air Award for “Business Leadership in Air 
Quality  Achievement”  from  the  South  Coast  Air  Quality 
Management  District  at  its  28th  annual  Clean  Air  Awards 
luncheon.  The  award  acknowledged  the  dedication  and 
commitment of the recipients to reduce pollution in Southern 
California  through  the  Middle  Harbor  Redevelopment 
Project.

19

20

21

•  On  20th  October,  OOCL  was  named  “Containership  Operator  of  the  Year”  in 
front of hundreds of industry peers at the Lloyd’s List Asia Awards ceremony held 
in  Singapore.  OOCL  won  the  award  for  2016  among  some  of  the  top  industry 
players  in  the  industry,  recognizing  OOCL’s  outstanding  business  performance 
and commitment to corporate sustainability.

NOVEMBER  22  23  24  25  26  27

•  On  1st  November,  OOCL  Logistics  received  the  “National  Advanced  Logistics  Enterprise  2016”  and  the  “China  TOP100 
Logistics  Enterprise  2016”  awards  at  a  ceremony  organised  by  the  China  Communications  and  Transportation  Association 
(CCTA) in Suining, Sichuan province. The awards program recognises and encourages industry-leading enterprises like OOCL 
Logistics that have made outstanding contributions to the logistics industry.

22

23

24

8

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

•  O n   3 r d   N o v e m b e r , 
OOCL  joined  OCEAN 
A l l i a n c e   p a r t n e r s   i n 
s i g n i n g   a   d o c u m e n t 
entitled  the  “Day  One 
Product”,  which  sets  out 
the  proposed  OCEAN 
A l l i a n c e ’ s   n e t w o r k , 
including  port  rotation 
for each service loop.

Significant Events - 2016

25

•  On  9th  November  in  Shanghai,  the  Tung 
family  was  presented  with  the  BIMCO 
2016  President’s  Award  at  a  dinner  event 
hosted  by  BIMCO,  the  Shanghai  Pudong 
New  District  Shipping  Ser vice  Office 
and  Shanghai  Lujiazui  Financial  and 
Trade  Zone  Development  Bureau.  OOIL 
Chairman,  Mr.  C  C  Tung,  represented  the 
family  to  receive  the  award  in  recognition 
of, and respect for, the Tung’s longstanding 
contributions to the shipping and maritime 
industry  since  the  time  of  Mr.  C  Y  Tung, 
the founder of OOCL.

26

•  At  the  Lloyd’s  List  21st  annual  Australian  Shipping  &  Maritime  Industry  Awards,  OOCL  was 
very  honored  to  receive  both  the  “Liner  Trade:  Australia-North  East  Asia”  and  “Customer 
Service” awards at a ceremony with hundreds of industry peers and friends on 16th November in 
Sydney, Australia.

27

DECEMBER

•  OOCL  successfully  completed  the  Renewal  Audit  of  its  Quality  Management  System  (QMS)  to  meet  the  new  ISO9001:2015 
requirements where areas such as risk-based thinking; leadership involvement in QMS, and the demonstration of leadership at 
the second tier management level have been growing in importance.

•  On  8th  December,  the  “OOCL  France  Branch”  (OFB)  was  established  as  the  sixth  branch  office.  The  branch  office  is  AEO 

(Authorised Economic Operator) certified and in compliance with the supply chain security standards in Europe.  

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

9

Chairman’s Letter

Chairman’s Letter
Chairman’s Letter

This past year has seen some 
of the most difficult markets 
in our industry’s history. Low 
growth in most regions and an 
overhang of excess supply led to 
challenging conditions in many 
trade lanes for most of 2016.

Tung Chee Chen
Chairman and CEO

10

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
Chairman’s Letter

This past year has seen some of the most difficult 
markets in our  industry’s  history.  Low  growth  in 

The  year  2016  turned  out  to  be  eventful.  The 

wave  of  consolidation  through  mergers  and 

most  regions  and  an  overhang  of  excess  supply 

acquisition,  as  well  as  the  collapse  of  Hanjin, 

led to challenging conditions in many trade lanes 

might  bring  what  has  for  many  years  been  an 

for most of 2016.

extremely  fragmented  industry  several  steps 

closer  to  being  a  more  stable  environment 

As fuel prices rose in the second half of the year, 

with  greater  likelihood  of  consistently  better 

industry  performance  was  badly  affected  by 

performance.

freight rates that frequently sank below the levels 

seen in 2009.

Beyond the positive moves in the structure of the 

industry,  there  are  some  credible  indicators  that 

The  financial  results  reported  by  the  industry  as 

2017  could  be  better  for  container  shipping  than 

a whole give a clear indication of just how severe 

2016.

conditions became. A quarter-by-quarter or half-

by-half  analysis  of  industry  results  since  the 

The  consensus  view  for  US  economic  growth 

middle  of  2015  paints  a  picture  of  strengthening 

has  turned  positive  over  the  last  six  months.  If 

headwinds.

employment, wages and consumer spending data 

continue to improve, this could be the beginning 

In  this  environment,  I  have  to  report  that  OOIL 

of a more sustainable recovery. For OOCL, having 

generated  a  loss  attributable  to  shareholders 

a  significant  presence  in  the  Trans-Pacific  trade, 

for  2016  of  US$219.2  million  (2015:  profit  of 

this is encouraging news.

US$283.9  million),  with  2016  loss  per  ordinary 

share  of  US35.0  cents  (2015:  earnings  per 

In  Europe,  lower  unemployment,  resilient  if 

ordinary share of US45.4 cents).

unspectacular  economic  growth,  as  well  as  the 

first hints of the return of some inflation suggests 

The  Board  of  Directors  has  decided  not  to 

some  early  signs  of  economic  improvement. 

recommend  the  payment  of  a  final  ordinary 

Against  this  backdrop,  the  Asia-Europe  trade 

dividend for 2016.

appears  to  have  begun  to  turn  the  corner  out  of 

the low growth (and sometimes negative growth) 

pattern  that  it  endured  for  much  of  2015  and 

2016.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

11

Chairman’s Letter

The  slowdown  in  growth  seen  in  several  of  the 

We  are  delighted  to  be  forming  the  Ocean 

larger  Asian  economies  has  not  caused  any  hard 

A l l i a n c e   w i t h   C O S C O,   C M A   C G M   a n d 

landings,  and  we  draw  some  reassurance  from 

Evergreen.  The  Ocean  Alliance  will  begin 

the  growth  in  ASEAN  volumes  as  well  as  the 

operations  in  April  2017.  Working  together 

improving dynamics of certain trades, such as the 

with  these  sizeable  and  like-minded  partners 

Australian  trade.  Beyond  this,  if  the  East-West 

will  enable  us  to  continue  to  offer  the  highest 

trades  do  indeed  continue  to  pick  up,  we  should 

standards  in  the  most  cost-effective  manner. 

see  a  beneficial  effect  on  Intra-Asian  volumes. 

Moreover,  the  Ocean  Alliance  enables  OOCL  to 

Nevertheless,  growth  in  Intra-Asia  trade  remains 

grow  its  business  in  a  considered  and  measured 

largely  anaemic,  with  rates  further  challenged  by 

way.

the ongoing introduction of cascaded vessels into 

many of the Intra-Asia trade lanes.

Our  20,000  TEU  class  vessels  enter  service 

in  2017.  Our  investment  in  these  vessels 

While not dismissing the significance of gradually 

demonstrates  our  commitment  to  growing  our 

improving  data,  we  cannot  afford  to  ignore  the 

business  intelligently,  and  allows  us  to  gain 

risk  factors  that  could  yet  affect  the  outlook 

economies  of  scale  in  all  our  major  East-West 

for  the  coming  year.  The  global  environment 

trades.  At  the  same  time,  we  will  maintain  our 

remains  very  uncertain.  Protectionism,  trade 

focus  on  continuous  cost  improvement  and 

and  geopolitical  friction,  and  a  slowdown  in  the 

further efficiency gains. We continue to invest in 

growth  of  globalisation  could  all  challenge  the 

IT, as a means of improving not only our internal 

outlook for our industry.

processes,  but  also  our  customer  interaction  and 

The industry supply and demand balance remains 

engagement.

one  of  the  largest  risk  factors.  Expectations  for 

The first phase of our Middle Harbor Redevelopment 

net  growth  in  2017  suggest  improvement  in  the 

Project  in  California  commenced  operations  in 

situation,  but  time  may  be  needed  to  absorb  the 

April 2016. We are pleased with the KPI achieved 

existing supply overhang.

thus  far,  and  we  continue  to  work  on  improving 

operations  as  we  look  forward  to  the  opening 

In  t h e s e  tu r bu l e nt  t i m e s ,  w it h  i n du s t r y 

of  the  second  phase,  towards  the  end  of  2017. 

consolidation occurring at a pace that few, if any, 

Final  completion  of  the  project  is  scheduled  to 

had expected, OOCL continues to build its future 

occur  in  2020.  We  are  pleased  to  note  that  our 

on  the  twin  pillars  of  alliance  membership  and 

new  state-of-the-art  terminal  will  be  able  to 

the  efficient  operation  of  the  most  appropriate 

ensure  the  highest  levels  not  only  of  operational 

vessels for each trade lane.

efficiency  but  of  environmental  friendliness  and 

sustainability.

12

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

OOCL  Logistics  continues  to  perform  profitably 

in  what  is  a  competitive  sector,  and  we  remain 

committed  to  building  up  our  activities  in 

this  sphere.  We  were  pleased  to  add  air  freight 

forwarding  services  to  our  offering  in  2016,  and 

we  continue  to  grow  OOCL  Logistics  further, 

not  least  as  opportunities  related  to  e-commerce 

materialise.

After  this  turbulent  year,  the  benefit  of  a  strong 

balance  sheet  has  become  more  obvious  to  and 

important  for  not  only  our  shareholders  and 

financiers, but also our customers. We are pleased 

to  be  able  to  provide  such  robust  comfort  to  our 

stakeholders, by means of our consistent policy of 

maintaining solid financial status.

While  the  outlook  remains  uncertain,  we  will 

continue  with  our  long-established  strategy. 

Excellent customer service, operational efficiency, 

cost  management,  IT  development  and  scale 

benefit  achieved  through  alliance  membership 

and  careful  deployment,  all  built  on  solid 

financial foundations.

With  this  approach,  and  with  a  more  consistent 

track  record  than  most  of  the  industry,  we 

believe that we can continue to grow successfully, 

through  these  challenging  times,  and  into  the 

upturn to come.

C C Tung

Chairman

Hong Kong, 10th March 2017

Chairman’s Letter

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

13

Operations Review

Operations Review
Operations Review

The year 2016 turned out 
to be eventful. The wave of 
consolidation through mergers 
and acquisition, as well as 
the collapse of Hanjin, might 
bring what has for many years 
been an extremely fragmented 
industry several steps closer 
to being a more stable 
environment with greater 
likelihood of consistently better 
performance.

14

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
Operations Review

CONTAINER TRANSPORT
The  closing  months  of  2015  had  become  increasingly  tough 
for  container  shipping,  such  that  by  the  beginning  of  2016,  it 
was already very clear that the year ahead would be extremely 
challenging.

Cargo volume growth on most trades remained limited, while 
at  the  same  time  a  seemingly  continuous  flow  of  new  and 
typically  very  large  container  vessels  was  being  delivered  by 
shipyards.

Perhaps  emboldened  by  low  bunker  prices,  many  liner 
companies  felt  able  to  accept  rates  that  tumbled  to  historic 
lows  in  certain  instances.  In  this  environment,  as  freight 
rates  continued  falling,  industry  participants  were  forced  to 
concentrate on high utilisation rates based on even fractionally 
positive-contribution cargo. In order to operate successfully in 
such  challenging  contexts,  having  an  efficient  cost  structure, 
as  well  the  technological  means  to  identify  cost  components 
effectively  in  such  a  complex  business,  is  absolutely  crucial. 
A  lack  of  visibility  over  costs  is  dangerous  at  any  time,  but 
especially so at times of often record-low freight rates.

In such harsh market conditions, it was to be expected that the 
financial  results  announced  for  the  half  year  showed  OOIL, 
along with almost all of its peers, reporting a financial loss.

As  the  year  entered  its  second  half,  small  signs  of  the 
beginnings of improvement started to be perceptible, but they 
were  very  far  from  signalling  a  clear  turning  point.  Week-to-
week load factors became more consistent, and were consistent 
at a high level. Rates remained low, but appeared to have halted 
their precipitous downward trend.

At  the  turn  of  August  into  September,  as  the  Trans-Pacific 
trade  was  in  the  middle  of  its  peak  season,  Hanjin  collapsed. 
The  resulting  disruption  to  the  supply  chains  of  many  users 
of  container  shipping  services  was  considerable,  but  with 
hindsight  it  is  hardly  surprising  that  the  strongly  adverse 
market conditions of much of 2016 would lead to such severe 
practical consequences.

This  was  not  the  only  factor  behind  the  slow  turnaround  that 
very  gradually  began  to  appear  as  from  the  third  quarter. 
Cargo  volume  growth,  while  far  from  spectacular,  surprised 
slightly  to  the  upside,  both  on  the  Trans-Pacific  and  Asia-
Europe trades. Liner shipping companies reacted pragmatically 
to  these  uncertain  market  conditions  by  revising  their 
service  networks,  cutting  unprofitable  routes,  and  returning 
unnecessary capacity to third party owners.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

15

Operations Review

The result has been a significant increase in the level of the idle 
fleet,  and  record  levels  of  vessel  scrapping,  with  around  3.3% 
of  total  market  capacity  being  scrapped  during  2016,  a  trend 
that  seems  to  be  continuing  in  the  first  months  of  2017.  This 
removal  of  unnecessary  capacity  in  the  market  should,  where 
permanent,  gradually  go  some  ways  to  helping  the  industry 
absorb  the  overhang  of  supply  over  demand  that  has  plagued 
the operating context for several years.

OOCL, CMA CGM, COSCO and Evergreen. Planning for the 
new alliance arrangements, and for the necessary transition, is 
already well advanced.

For  the  full  year  2016,  OOCL’s  liftings  were  up  9.1%,  but 
with  a  drop  in  revenue  of  9.9%.  This  reflects  the  challenging 
environment  described  above,  as  does  the  disappointing 
financial outcome for the year.

Throughout  all  of  2016,  OOCL  provided  its  East-West 
services  alongside  Hapag-Lloyd,  NYK,  Mitsui  OSK  Lines, 
Hyundai  Merchant  Marine  and  APL  in  the  G6  alliance. 
Impressive  operating  statistics,  and  by  now  well-established 
operating procedures helped by the G6’s joint service centre in 
Singapore, achieved meaningful benefits for G6 members.

The  G6  alliance  will  cease  operation  at  the  end  of  the  first 
quarter of 2017, upon the formation of the Ocean Alliance by 

One  of  the  most  significant  events  of  the  year  for  the  group 
was  the  opening  of  the  first  phase  of  our  new  container 
terminal  in  Long  Beach,  California.  The  Trans-Pacific  is  a 
core trade for us, and the port of Long Beach is most certainly 
core  to  that  trade.  We  are  delighted  with  the  performance  of 
the  new  terminal  thus  far,  and  while  there  have  been  certain 
start-up costs this year, we look forward to gaining increasing 
efficiency and financial benefit from our new operations there 
in the coming years.

OOCL Liner
1Q16 v 1Q15
2Q16 v 2Q15
3Q16 v 3Q15
4Q16 v 4Q15
Total

TEU
4.2%
6.6%
5.2%
20.2%
9.1%

Growth in 2016

Revenue
(17.1%)
(16.6%)
(13.8%)
10.3%
(9.9%)

Revenue/TEU
(20.4%)
(21.8%)
(18.1%)
(8.2%)
(17.4%)

16

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
Operations Review

LIFTING (’000 TEU)

REVENUE (US$ million)

Trade

Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia/Australasia

Total

2016

1,558
951
396
3,176

6,081

Trans-Pacific  –  The  beginning  of  2016  was  extremely  tough 
in  the  Trans-Pacific  trade.  Significant  additional  capacity  was 
being introduced month by month, at times with double digit 
growth, whereas the annual cargo volume growth each month 
was at the level of 4.6%. As a result, spot rates plummeted, in 
turn creating the worst possible backdrop for liner companies 
to  negotiate  annual  contracts  with  their  customers.  Contract 
rates  were  concluded  that  were  materially  below  levels  agreed 
in previous years, creating an unwelcome degree of likelihood 
that  2016  would  be  financially  challenging.  This  lacklustre 
environment continued unabated until early September, when 
rates  improved  significantly,  and,  despite  gloomy  predictions 
from  many  quarters,  remained  at  more  or  less  those  higher 
levels  until  year  end.  Slightly  better  volume  growth  than 
anticipated, from a high base, as well as the disruption caused 
by the collapse of Hanjin and by the withdrawal of tonnage in 
reaction to unprofitable trading, provided the basis of a slowly 
improving  market.  However,  accounting  revenue  recognition 
rules,  in  combination  with  the  weight  of  previously  agreed 
contract rates, meant that this improvement was very far from 

2015

1,318
894
366
2,998

5,576

Variance

18.2%
6.4%
8.2%
5.9%

9.1%

2016

1,723
766
517
1,695

4,701

2015

1,908
884
569
1,858

5,219

Variance

(9.7%)
(13.3%)
(9.1%)
(8.8%)

(9.9%)

sufficient  to  generate  a  change  in  the  2016  outcome.  If  the 
trend  continues,  as  it  seems  to  be  doing,  it  would  seem  likely 
that 2017 should see a better result than 2016.

Asia-Europe  –  The  weak  Euro,  low  economic  growth  in 
many  European  countries,  and  the  impact  of  sanctions  on 
Russia,  all  at  a  time  of  high  capacity  growth,  meant  that  in 
2015  and  much  of  2016,  the  Asia-Europe  trade  struggled 
severely.  Cargo  volume  growth  year  on  year  was  negative 
for  much  of  the  first  half  of  2016.  In  order  to  avoid  losses 
caused  by  the  unsustainably  harsh  market  environment,  liner 
companies  began  to  rationalise  their  service  offerings,  with 
each month’s capacity-in-service often shrinking on a year-on-
year basis despite the continuing delivery of large new vessels. 
Conditions started to improve slowly, with rates moving away 
from  the  historic  and  completely  unsustainable  lows  that 
characterised  the  first  months  of  the  year.  Similarly,  volumes 
also  improved,  with  high  load  factors  on  most  services.  By 
the  fourth  quarter,  the  European  economic  environment  had 
begun  to  show  some  signs  of  greater  robustness,  with  the 
consequence  being  spot  rates  heading  back  towards  more 
normal  levels,  setting  a  better  context  for  ongoing  contract 
negotiations  with  customers,  and  a  likely  more  positive 
beginning to 2017.

Trans-Atlantic  –  The  strong  US  dollar  continued  to  boost 
westbound trade on this route, in line with the trend of recent 
years. Conversely, low economic growth in Europe and a weak 
Euro  held  back  growth  on  the  eastbound  lanes.  Operational 
and economic performance was good, even if the issue of trade 
imbalance continues to pose a challenge. The rate environment 
saw  some  degree  of  softness  at  certain  points  of  the  year,  but 
not  on  the  scale  of  what  occurred  on  the  main  East-West 
trades, the Trans-Pacific and the Asia-Europe routes.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

17

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operations Review

Intra-Asia and Australasia – The performance of the business 
in  this  vast  and  varied  region  overall  can  only  be  described 
as  disappointing,  notwithstanding  certain  pockets  of  more 
encouraging outcomes. Cargo volume growth, which typically 
has  been  in  the  high  single  digits  in  recent  years,  was  low 
or  even  negative  for  most  months  of  the  year.  Coming  at  a 
time  of  continued  cascading  of  tonnage  from  other  trades, 
and  of  the  launching  of  more  services  by  competitors  on  the 
better  performing  trade  lanes,  it  is  no  shock  that  the  rate 
environment  became  extremely  challenging.  In  response 
to  this,  OOCL  made  extensive  efforts  to  examine  its  own 
network,  and  to  seek  efficiencies  wherever  possible.  This  has 
resulted in the restructuring of certain of our Intra-Asia loops, 
as  well  as  in  the  return  of  a  number  of  chartered-in  vessels 
to  their  owners.  We  consider  that  these  changes  should  help 
OOCL  generate  meaningful  cost  savings  to  help  face  market 
conditions  that  have  not  yet  shown,  on  a  consistent  basis,  the 
seeming  first  signs  of  sustained  recovery  that  we  might  be 
witnessing on the East West trades.

MAJOR CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS
Approximately  7.3%  and  18.5%  of  the  Group’s  total 
expenditure  on  purchases  of  goods  and  services  for  the 
year are attributable to the largest supplier and five largest 
suppliers respectively.

Approximately  1.5%  and  5.2%  of  the  Group’s  total 
reported  revenues  for  the  year  are  attributable  to  the 
largest customer and five largest customers respectively.

The  Group  has  entered  into  slot  sharing  arrangements 
with  other  container  shipping  companies.  The  receipts 
and  payments  from  slot  sharing  arrangements  have 
not  been  included  in  determining  the  major  customers 
and  suppliers  since  it  would  be  misleading  to  do  so 
as  the  receipts  and  payments  are  in  respect  of  sharing 
arrangements for the utilisation of vessel space.

No  director  or  any  of  his  associates  holds  any  equity 
interest in the suppliers or customers included above.

18

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Operations Review

MARINE TERMINALS
During  2016,  OOCL  operated  two  container  terminals:  the 
Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  (LBCT)  in  California  and 
the  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in  Taiwan,  with  a  total 
combined  throughput  of  2.4  million  TEU,  representing  a 
year  over  year  increase  of  about  2%.  Tianjin  Port  Alliance 
International  Container  Terminal  Co.,  Ltd.  and  Ningbo  Yuan 
Dong Terminal Ltd., where OOCL has a 20% interest in each, 
together handled about 4.2 million TEU, a 13% reduction from 
2015.

will  become  one  of  the  most  operationally  efficient  and 
environmentally  friendly  port  terminals  anywhere  in  the 
world.

Our  expanded  new  terminal  at  Long  Beach  will,  over  time, 
drive  more  and  more  benefit  for  the  Group.  This  will  be 
achieved  not  only  by  cost-efficient  handling  of  calls  by  our 
own vessels and those of our alliance partners, but by opening 
up  the  possibility  of  third  party  business  and  therefore 
additional revenue streams.

Middle Harbor Redevelopment Project

OOCL and its subsidiary LBCT continue to work with the Port 
of  Long  Beach  (POLB)  on  the  Middle  Harbor  Redevelopment 
Project (MHRP) in Long Beach, California. The project is to be 
developed  in  three  phases.  After  extensive  equipment  testing, 
systems  development  and  professional  training  through  2015 
and early part of 2016, Phase I went live on 7th April 2016 and 
has been in full operation since.

We expect Phase II to be operational at the end of 2017. Once 
Phase  II  goes  live,  all  operations  of  LBCT  will  be  conducted 
at  MHRP  and  the  old  berth  and  yard  at  Pier  F  will  be  closed. 
This  will  be  another  major  milestone  for  the  Group  as  LBCT 

Long Beach Container Terminal, LLC. (LBCT LLC)

Location:

Long Beach, California, USA

Status of Terminal:

Currently  at  98.8  acres,  to  be  expanded  into  a  304-acre, 
three-berth  container  facility  operated  under  a  long-term 
preferential use agreement from the Port of Long Beach.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

19

Operations Review

Equipment/Facilities:

Building Facilities:

On  Pier  F:  one  container-vessel  berth;  seven  Post-Panamax 
quayside  container  gantry  cranes;  five  side  picks;  12  rubber-
tired gantry cranes; 75 yard tractors; 11 top handlers; 12 utility 
forklifts;  56  yard  chassis;  various  pick-up  trucks  and  other 
vehicles and handling equipment.

On  Pier  E:  currently  two  container-vessel  berths  (one  in 
use  under  Phase  I);  seven  ship-to-shore  gantry  cranes,  36 
automated stacking cranes, two rail yard cranes, 75 bombcarts, 
one  reach  stacker,  one  combi-lift  straddle  carrier,  40  yard 
tractors, four heavy lifts, one fuel truck, 56 pickup trucks, one 
tour bus, two shuttle buses and two telehandlers.

13,000 sq ft main office building; 3,200 sq ft marine operations 
building; 9,600 sq ft repair shop.

Principal Customers:

APL, Hapag Lloyd, HMM, MOL, NYK and OOCL.

Kaohsiung Container Terminal (KAOCT)

Location:

Pier 65 and 66 Kaohsiung Harbour, Kaohsiung, Taiwan

Status of Terminal:

As  one  of  the  original  container  facilities  in  the  Kaohsiung 
Harbour,  the  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  has  deep-
water  berths  of  14.5  meters  and  the  entire  facility  has  been 
modernized since 2002 and then upgraded again in 2012 with 
the  ability  to  handle  two  10,000-TEU  vessels  or  one  13,000-
TEU and one 8000-TEU vessels simultaneously.

20

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Operations Review

Equipment/Facilities:

Bunker Saving

Two  container-vessel  berths  (760  meters  long)  on  a  total  of 
approximately 63.6 acres operating on a 24-hour, 7-day a week 
basis for vessel and gate activities: Seven quay cranes including 
four with 19 rows,  two with 22 rows  and one with 23  rows  of 
twin 20 ft lifting capacity; 20 rail-mounted gantry cranes; five 
empty stackers and various shipside handling equipment.

To  further  enhance  services  and  improve  efficiency,  two 
terminal upgrade projects have been carried out which include 
the  completion  of  an  expansion  of  the  container  storage 
area  ZONE  6  by  1,500  TEU  in  January  2014  and  an  empty 
storage  area  ZONE  7  by  4,000  TEU  in  April  2015.  After  the 
completion of the first project, the rail-mounted gantry cranes 
are now able to handle 1.6 million TEU per annum and carbon 
emission will be further reduced as well.

Building Facilities (approximate area):

2,948 sqm office building, 7,000 sqm container freight station, 
720 sqm maintenance building.

Principal Customers:

Having  observed  the  general  trend  of  rising  bunker  prices 
throughout  the  year,  we  focused  intensely  on  bunker  and 
engine  lubricant  oil  saving  programs  to  reduce  cost.  These 
programs  include,  and  not  limited  to:  implementing  optimal 
routing for our vessels and ensuring vessel speed optimisation, 
efficient  use  of  shaft  generator,  minimum  ballast  and  optimal 
trim were realised.

Environmental Protection

We remain very supportive of international efforts to measure 
and  control  shipboard  emissions.  In  2016,  we  maintained  an 
average  sulphur  content  of  2.52%  in  our  bunker  consumption 
which  compares  favourably  with  the  International  Maritime 
Organization  (IMO)  prescribed  standard  of  3.5%.  Aside  from 
the  installation  of  Alternative  Maritime  Power  (AMP)  system 
that  allows  shore-based  power  alternatives,  our  new  buildings 
have  been  equipped  with  Ballast  Water  Treatment  systems 
to  effectively  treat  ballast  water,  which  is  in  line  with  our 
environmental  policy.  A  retrofit  program  is  also  underway  to 
allow  some  of  our  existing  vessels  to  improve  fuel  efficiency 
and so to reduce emissions.

ANL, APL, COSCO, EMC, HPL, HYMM, IRISL, MOSK, NYK, 
OOCL, PIL, WHL, YML, ZIM and various feeder operators.

SHIP OPERATIONS
As  at  31st  December,  2016,  OOCL  fleet  composition  was  as 
follows:

In  addition  to  regulator y  compliance,  we  have  been 
participating  in  various  voluntary  programs  including  the 
Green  Flag  Program  at  the  Port  of  Long  Beach,  Vessel  Speed 
Reduction  Program  at  the  Port  of  Los  Angeles,  and  the 
Shenzhen  Port  Green  Convention  initiated  by  the  Shenzhen 
Transportation Commission (SZMOT) in China.

LOGISTICS
OOCL  Logistics  gross  profit  improved  by  0.4%  but  net  profit 
slipped  by  17.9%  due  to  the  sluggish  sea-freight  market  and 
impact on the utilization performance of our long-term leased 
warehouses in China.

Fleet

Owned/ 

Long Term Chartered/ 
Operating Lease
Short Term Chartered

Operating Capacity

No. of Vessels

TEU Capacity

64
32

96

472,499
101,819

574,318

In  2016,  the  Group  did  not  take  delivery  of,  nor  did  it  place 
any orders for, any further new buildings.

As  anticipated,  during  the  year  four  13,200  TEU  Mega  Class 
vessels  that  had  been  chartered  out  to  NYK  Line  since  2013 
were returned to the group. Upon their return, the four vessels 
joined  the  OOCL  fleet  and  have  been  renamed  as  ‘OOCL 
Poland’, ‘OOCL France’, ‘OOCL Egypt’ and ‘OOCL Malaysia’ 
respectively.

As  of  the  end  of  2016,  OOCL  owned  vessels  with  an  average 
age of 7.64 years and an average size of 7,548 TEU.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

21

Operations Review

In  2016,  much  efforts  have  been  made  to  enhance  customer 
experience  through  innovative  solutions,  as  well  as  to  further 
secure customer confidence in the reliability and quality of our 
international supply chain management services. Some of these 
initiatives include the new tailor-made features of our Podium 
system  and  the  development  of  our  Intelligent  Report  System 
which  enhances  the  supply  chain  visibility,  productivity  and 
organizational efficiency of our customers’ supply chains.

The  import  and  export  services  segment  faced  tremendous 
challenges  in  2016,  particularly  from  the  effects  of  the  high 
volatility  and  instability  in  the  liner  industry  throughout  the 
year.  However,  we  have  seen  marked  improvements  in  the 
performance of our Owned Customs House Brokers operations 
in Qingdao, Ningbo and Shanghai, as well as our various depot 
operations  throughout  China.  Project  cargo  transportation 
services  contributed  good  profit,  while  the  newly  established 
air-freight  forwarding  business  that  complemented  our  3PL 
services  has  shown  rapid  growth  opportunities.  The  railway 
service  between  China  and  Russia,  Germany  and  other 
European  countries  also  showed  positive  signs  for  further 
growth.

For  the  domestic  logistics  business,  the  low  utilization  of 
our  newly  established  long-term  leased  warehouses  in  China 
had  a  significant  impact  on  the  profit  margin,  particularly 
because  of  the  over-supply  situation  in  the  market.  However, 
we  are  pleased  to  see  that  our  cold  chain  logistics  business 
in  China  continued  to  grow  and  in  capturing  new  business 
opportunities  in  the  country,  we  have  moved  deeper  into  the 
transportation  services  and  warehouse  markets  of  the  second 
and third tier cities in China.

By leveraging on our superior IT capabilities and management 
expertise,  our  Software-as-a-Service  has  made  very  good 
progress by providing our clients with Weika, TMS, WMS and 
Control Tower which have been integrated into our customers’ 
supply chain operations and management.

In  addition  to  business  development,  we  also  focused  on 
improvements  to  our  operations,  including  operational 
productivity,  cost  control,  asset  efficiency,  better  service 
capability and quality for sustainable growth.

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
The  Group  continues  to  invest  in  information  technology  in 
order to enhance our competitive advantage in the industry.

In  2016,  we  focused  our  efforts  on  our  multi-speed  IT 
development  model  through  DevOps,  providing  us  with 
the  agility  and  stability  we  need  in  our  IT  initiatives.  The 
agile  methods,  tools,  and  processes  were  all  important 
towards  our  drive  in  IT  experimentation  as  well  as  delivering 
innovative  products  quickly  and  effectively.  In  parallel,  the 
implementation  of  our  Software  Defined  Data  Center  and 
Network  provided  multi-fold  improvements  in  operational 
efficiency,  quality  and  cost  to  scale  by  leveraging  automation 
and digital orchestration.

22

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Operations Review

PROPERTY
Based on an independent valuation as at 31st December 2016, 
Wall  Street  Plaza  was  valued  upwards  by  US$20  million, 
reflecting  an  assessed  market  value  of  US$220  million.  After 
offsetting a total of US$1.5 million improvement works on the 
building in 2016, the net fair value gain for 2016 has come to 
US$18.5 million.

As  at  31st  December  2015,  Wall  Street  Plaza  was  valued  at 
US$200 million with a net fair value gain of US$19.5 million in 
2015.

Business  mobility  was  also  enhanced  from  the  adoption 
of  Microsoft  Office  365  where  corporate  information  and 
documents can be accessed across computing devices anytime, 
anywhere  to  improve  productivity  and  support  faster  and 
more well-informed decision-making processes. The Microsoft 
Office  cloud  service  enables  cost-effective  ways  in  scaling 
up  the  office  productivity  infrastructure  to  support  business 
growth, and further expand our digital journey to enhance our 
connection with customers and their experience with us.

In  our  exploration  on  the  application  of  analytics  and  the 
business  values  that  it  may  bring,  Network  Optimization 
experiments were conducted in four surplus regions to support 
optimal  traffic  control  decision  making.  Having  observed 
satisfactory  results  on  the  overall  network  performance  in 
2016,  further  opportunities  to  expand  the  scope  of  Network 
Optimization will be explored in 2017 to drive for further yield 
improvements.

The  Group’s  subsidiary,  CargoSmart,  a  standalone  third  party 
business  platform,  developed  various  analytics  capabilities 
that  offer  solutions  for  carrier,  port,  and  terminal  operators 
to  improve  their  operational  cost  and  efficiencies  in  the 
transportation  supply  chain.  CargoSmart  will  continue  to 
expand  its  analytics  capabilities  to  further  develop  innovative 
and intelligent solutions to support customers.

CargoSmart  also  launched  an  open  API  platform  called 
“BigSchedules.com”  which  serves  as  a  public  platform  for 
different  parties  in  the  supply  chain  to  conveniently  access 
vessel  and  schedule  data.  In  2017,  CargoSmart  will  continue 
to  explore  and  define  an  ecosystem  platform  strategy  for  this 
technology.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

23

Corporate Responsibility

Corporate Responsibility

The Group prides 
itself upon being a 
responsible corporate 
citizen and it 
employs the highest 
standards of business 
ethics in all that it 
does. Headed by a 
senior management 
Steering Committee 
and a Global 
Security, Safety and 
Environment Care 
Officer, the Group 
embraces the core 
values of Corporate 
Social Responsibility 
at all levels.

24

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
Corporate Responsibility

The  Group  places  the  utmost  importance  on  environmental 
care  and  community  support.  Despite  the  current  difficult 
economic  environment,  we  must  continue  to  address  the 
long-term threat of climate change. We strive to play our part 
in  tackling  this  global  problem  through  engagement  with 
organisations  such  as  the  Business  Environment  Council, 
the  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  and  the  World  Wildlife 
Fund.  Throughout  the  year,  the  Group  has  won  awards  and 
accolades for its environmental performance, and OOIL Group 
employees  around  the  world  have  been  actively  supporting 
their  local  communities  through  various  environmental 
initiatives.

The  Group  is  dedicated  to  promoting  sustainable  practices 
into our supply chain. Our Corporate Sustainable Procurement 
Policy  has  been  implemented  in  every  aspect  of  our  business 
and at every stage of the supply chain. For example, under our 
vendor and supplier selection mechanism, a self assessment of 
the  potential  contractor  must  be  completed  to  confirm  their 
compliance  to  our  Safety,  Security,  Environmental  and  Social 
Guidelines, where on-site verification of their facilities may be 
conducted if deemed necessary. Once compliance is confirmed 
we  would  review  and  work  with  our  vendors  to  ensure 
compliance levels are maintained.

In  addition,  the  OOCL  Carbon  Calculator  is  designed  to 
assist  OOCL  customers  measure  CO2  emissions  in  their 
supply  chains.  The  scope  of  the  calculator  spans  across 
vessels,  trucks,  feeders,  and  rail  with  over  70,000  port  pairs 
recorded.  OOCL  spearheaded  the  project  in  2010,  partnering 
with the Department of Logistics and Maritime Studies of the 
Hong  Kong  Polytechnic  University.  The  Calculator  has  been 
checked and verified for its methodology, accuracy and carbon 
footprint  calculations  by  The  American  Bureau  of  Shipping 
(ABS) Consulting.

OUR ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES
The Group recognises that businesses must take responsibility 
for  their  industry’s  effects  on  the  environment.  Our  company 
is  dedicated  to  meeting  the  needs  of  the  present  without 
compromising  those  of  the  future.  We  encourage  sustainable 
economic  development  through  innovative  environmental 
care  measures  and  believe  that  by  taking  a  proactive  role  in 
caring for the environment, we can help minimise our carbon 
footprint,  improve  air  quality  and  make  the  world  a  better 
place to live for ourselves and future generations.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

25

Corporate Responsibility

We  actively  participate  in  green  programs  and  have  received 
recognition for our achievements and best practices, including:

The  Safety,  Quality  and  Environmental  (SQE)  Management 
System  Certificate  –  OOCL  was  the  first  container  shipping 
line  in  the  world  to  have  achieved  the  SQE  certification 
which  consolidates  the  ISM-Code,  ISO  9001  and  ISO  14001 
requirements.

Vessel  Speed  Reduction  Programs  –  Each  year,  OOCL  has 
been  fully  compliant  to  reducing  vessel  speed  when  entering 
within both 20 and 40 nautical miles of the Port of Long Beach 
and  Port  of  Los  Angeles  harbors.  Our  efforts  have  effectively 
contributed to improving the air quality by reducing emissions 
such as smog forming nitrogen oxides (NOx), diesel particulate 
matter  and  greenhouse  gases.  Port  officials  estimate  that  if  all 
vessels comply with the program, the amount of NOx produced 
by container ships would be reduced by nearly 550 tons a year.

Ballast  Water  Management  Program  –  All  container  ships 
discharge  ballast  water,  which  can  contain  organisms  that 
may  be  harmful  to  other  environments.  We  have  a  policy  of 
exchanging  ballast  water  only  in  the  open  sea  (200  nautical 
miles  away  from  the  nearest  coastline)  to  achieve  zero  ballast 
water  exchange  when  berthed  at  the  port.  Although  it  is  not 
mandated by the International Maritime Organization (IMO), 
OOCL’s  new  buildings  are  already  equipped  with  an  IMO 
approved  Ballast  Water  Treatment  System  to  effectively  treat 
ballast water before discharging.

Hong  Kong  Green  Organisation  Certification  (HKGOC)  – 
The  HKGOC  aims  to  benchmark  the  performance  of  ‘green’ 
organizations  to  encourage  them  to  sustain  their  various 
environmental  best  practices.  It  also  presents  organizations 
with  the  opportunity  to  demonstrate  their  commitment  to 
improve different aspects of their environmental performance. 
In  appreciation  of  our  efforts  towards  environmental 
protection, and following on from being awarded Gold Winner 
in  the  Hong  Kong  Awards  for  Environmental  Excellence 
(HKAEE),  OOCL  has  been  given  the  status  of  ‘Hong  Kong 
Green Organisation’ (HKGO) by the Environmental Campaign 
Committee (ECC).

“Class  of  Excellence”  Wastewi$e  Label  –  OOCL  also 
received  environmental  recognition  for  our  participation 
and  performance  in  the  Wastewi$e  Label  Scheme  under  the 
Hong  Kong  Awards  for  Environmental  Excellence  (HKAEE) 
program. Under the Scheme, participants must achieve at least 
nine  goals  or  more,  covering  at  least  two  of  three  Wastewi$e 
categories in order to be granted with the “Class of Excellence” 
Wastewi$e  Label.  The  three  categories  include  Waste 
Avoidance  &  Reduction  Measures,  Collection  and  Recycling 
of  Recyclable  Materials,  and  Purchase  or  Manufacture  of 
Recycled Products.

26

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Asia  Sustainability  Reporting  Award  –  OOCL  also  received 
recognition  for  “Asia’s  Best  CSR  Communication  Within 
Annual  Report”  at  the  Asia  Sustainability  Reporting  Awards 
Ceremony  and  Gala  Dinner  organised  by  CSRWorks 
International  held  in  Singapore  on  28th  January  2016. 
CSRWorks  International’s  inaugural  awards  drew  180  entries 
from  companies  in  Hong  Kong,  China,  Japan,  India,  Taiwan, 
Malaysia,  Thailand,  Sri  Lanka,  the  Middle  East,  Indonesia, 
Singapore  and  the  Philippines.  These  companies  are  a  virtual 
crème-de-la-crème  of  listed  companies  in  Asia;  mainly  falling 
among the top 50 in their respective exchanges.

Global  Green  Future  Leadership  Award  –  OOCL  won  the 
Global  Green  Future  Leadership  Award  at  the  Global  Green 
Future  Summit  as  the  “Best  Green  Organization  of  the  Year”. 
This  environmental  awards  program  was  organised  by  the 
World  CSR  Congress  and  received  over  2,500  entries  from 
different parts of the world.

Golden  Vessel  Award  –  OOCL  and  Kaohsiung  Container 
Terminal  (KAOCT)  jointly  received  the  Golden  Vessel  Award 
from  the  Taiwan  International  Ports  Corporation  (TIPC)  to 
recognise  our  contributions  to  environmental  protection  and 
pollution prevention at the port.

Clean  Air  Award  –  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  LLC. 
(LBCT  LLC)  together  with  the  Port  of  Long  Beach  received 
a  prestigious  Clean  Air  Award  for  working  hand-in-hand  to 
reduce  pollution  in  Southern  California  through  the  Middle 
Harbor  Redevelopment  Project.  Presented  by  the  South  Coast 
Air  Quality  Management  District  (SCAQMD)  at  its  28th 
annual  Clean  Air  Awards  luncheon  on  7th  October  2016,  the 
award  recognises  LBCT  for  the  outstanding  effort  to  advance 
effective solutions to improving air quality in the region.

Lloyd’s List Asia Containership Operator of the Year Award 
– OOCL was named the “Containership Operator of the Year” 
at the Lloyd’s List Asia awards ceremony held on 20th October 
2016 in Singapore. The award recognises OOCL’s outstanding 
business  performance  and  commitment  to  corporate 
sustainability.

Golden Globe Tigers Sustainability Award – OOCL won the 
Environmental Best Practices Awards for “Green Management 
& Future Leadership” at the Golden Globe Tigers Summit and 
Awards  2016  event  held  in  Kuala  Lumpur,  Malaysia  on  11th 
April 2016. Organised by the Asian Confederation of Business, 
World  CSR  and  CMO  Asia,  the  awards  program  honours  and 
encourages organizations that participates in environmentally-
friendly  or  green  activities  to  ensure  their  business  activities 
adequately  address  current  environmental  concerns  while 
maintaining a profit.

OOIL  becomes  a  FTSE4Good  Global  Index  Constituent 
–  The  FTSE4Good  Index  Series  is  one  of  the  world’s  most 
recognised  and  respected  indices  measuring  the  performance 
of  companies  demonstrating  strong  Environmental,  Social 
and  Governance  (ESG)  standards  for  investors  committed 
to  socially  responsible  investments.  OOIL  is  honoured  to  be 
the  first  Hong  Kong-based  enterprise  in  the  international 
transportation  and  logistics  industry  to  be  included  in  the 
Index. Independently assessed according to the Index criteria, 
OOIL  has  met  all  ESG  requirements  to  become  a  constituent 
of  the  Index  for  the  second  consecutive  year  since  December 
2015,  an  important  milestone  in  the  company’s  efforts  to 
achieving long-term sustainability objectives.

Hang  Seng  Corporate  Sustainability  Index  –  The  Group 
is  a  founding  constituent  of  the  Hang  Seng  Corporate 
Sustainability  Index,  launched  in  2010  to  recognise  the 
top  30  companies  with  the  highest  scores  in  areas  such  as 
environmental  care,  social  impact,  and  corporate  governance 
(ESG).  We  have  been  selected  as  a  constituent  of  Hang 
Seng  Corporate  Sustainability  Benchmark  Index  for  the 
sixth  consecutive  year,  reflecting  our  continual  outstanding 
performance  in  ESG,  which  was  launched  2011.  Referring  to 
their latest ESG assessment, we are ranked at the top in one of 
the seven core subjects of “Consumer Issues”.

Corporate Responsibility

Stop  Shipping  Shark,  Whale,  Dolphin,  and  Their  Related 
Products  –  On  15th  February  2016,  OOCL  announced  that 
bookings for whale, shark, dolphin, and their related products 
will  not  be  accepted.  This  new  policy  shows  our  commitment 
and  best  practices  in  supporting  the  global  effort  to  curb  the 
trade in at-risk, endangered and protected marine species.

Qualship  21  –  Offered  by  the  US  Coast  Guard,  the  Qualship 
21  program  recognises  high-quality  ships  for  their  excellent 
safety  and  antipollution  standards  and  encourages  quality 
operations. Most of OOCL’s vessels calling the US have already 
been Qualship 21 certified since 2004.

Environmental  Data  Verification  –  OOCL  completed  its 
environmental  reporting  and  disclosure  assurance  by  using 
both  the  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  (CCWG)  and  ISO 
14064-1  standards  to  certify  the  transparency,  accuracy, 
completeness,  consistency  and  relevance  of  OOCL’s  data 
disclosure  on  vessel  emissions.  OOCL  was  accredited  by  the 
Lloyd’s  Register  Quality  Assurance  (LRQA),  an  independent 
business  assurance  service  provider  based  in  the  United 
Kingdom, after checking not only the carbon dioxide, sulphur 
oxides  and  Greenhouse  Gas  (GHG)  (Scope  1)  emission 
levels  of  OOCL  vessels,  but  also  the  GHG  (Scope  2)  records 
associated  to  the  electricity  consumption  of  OOCL’s  head 
office in Hong Kong. OOCL took further steps forward in our 
GHG reporting and verification by extending the scope to our 
container  terminals,  namely  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal, 
LLC.  (LBCT  LLC)  in  the  United  States  and  Kaohsiung 
Container Terminal (KAOCT) in Taiwan.

The  Group  is  committed  to  reducing  emissions,  promoting 
environmental  care  and  conserving  natural  resources.  We  do 
this in all areas of our business – on land and at sea – from our 
vessels, to our terminals, offices and containers.

Our  Vessels  –  The  best  way  to  reduce  harmful  emissions  in 
the shipping industry is to reduce the consumption of fuel. For 
well over a decade OOCL implemented a fuel saving program 
including weather routing systems, slow steaming (addition of 
extra vessels on service loops and travelling at slower speeds), 
minimising  ballast  water  to  help  achieve  a  lighter  vessel  load, 
and  achieving  better  trim  of  ship  draughts  by  good  stowage, 
thereby  burning  less  fuel.  By  taking  these  measures,  we  have 
reduced  our  CO2  emissions  by  more  than  45%  since  2004.  In 
addition  to  reducing  our  emissions,  we  are  able  to  help  our 
customers  achieve  a  lower  carbon  footprint  in  their  supply 
chains.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

27

the  containers  were  moved,  sorted,  and  stored  until  certified 
“Clean  Trucks”  were  ready  to  pick  them  up  for  transport 
throughout the country.

In  June  of  2016  the  first  phase  of  LBCT’s  On-Dock  Rail  Yard 
also  went  live,  allowing  a  large  number  of  containers  to  be 
moved  to  and  from  the  terminal  via  double  stack  trains  thus 
reducing the use of the Clean Truck fleet by hundreds of trips 
per day.

In November of 2016, we joined the Mayor of Long Beach and 
dignitaries  from  the  community  and  the  Port  of  Long  Beach 
in flipping the switch to activate the new Solar Carports which 
cover  the  parking  spaces  in  LBCT’s  North  Operations  and  IT 
(NOIT) Building, and our Marine Operations Building (MOB). 
These  photovoltaic  panels  have  the  capacity  to  produce  905 
kW for at least the next 25 years, and represent the first of two 
phases of solar installation at the MHRP.

2016 also ushered in some small, but important steps forward 
in  sustainability.  For  example,  the  terminal  successfully 
deployed  a  new  coupling  system  for  our  few  remaining  yard 
tractors  serving  the  On-Dock  Railyard  which  eliminated 
the  need  for  the  drivers  to  exit  their  tractors  to  connect 
and  disconnect  the  brake  airlines.  This,  combined  with  our 
improved  railyard  design,  has  reduced  the  number  of  yard 
tractors  needed  by  approximately  30%,  further  reducing  the 
emissions  related  to  the  terminal.  This  reduces  costs  for  the 
terminal  while  benefitting  the  environment,  standing  as  a 
perfect example of the best type of environmental stewardship.

L B C T’s  a c h i e ve m e nt s  we re  re c o g n i s e d  by  t h e  U. S . 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and selected LBCT to 
be the recipient of nearly US$1.5 million in funding to expand 
our  fleet  of  Zero  Emission  AGVs  in  order  to  move  cargo 
through  the  MHRP  in  the  most  environmental  friendly  way 
possible. Such recognition of our efforts by one of the strictest 
environmental regulatory agencies in the world helps highlight 
not  just  the  success  of  our  green  initiatives,  but  also  celebrate 
the real impact we have on improving the environment in the 
community.

Corporate Responsibility

Since  2000,  all  our  vessels  have  been  installed  with 
environment-friendly  NOx-controlled  propulsive  engines 
while  advanced  slide  fuel  injection  valves  are  also  adopted 
to  help  reduce  NOx  emissions  by  30%.  All  our  new  buildings 
since 2011 are also equipped with Alternative Maritime Power 
(AMP)  Systems,  also  known  as  “Cold  Ironing”,  which  allows 
the  vessel  to  use  shore  supplied  electricity  instead  of  burning 
fuel when at berth. OOCL is fully compliant to the EU, North 
America  and  IMO  mandated  requirements  of  using  0.1%  or 
lower  sulphur  content  fuel  in  all  SOx  Emission  Control  Areas 
(SECA).  We  are  also  compliant  to  the  requirements  of  using 
0.1%  sulphur  content  fuel  when  our  vessels  are  berthed  at 
designated  EU  ports.  Moreover,  OOCL  is  one  of  the  leading 
carriers that signed on to the newly introduced Shenzhen Port 
Green  Convention  initiated  by  the  Shenzhen  Transportation 
Commission  (SZMOT)  that  encourage  ocean  going  vessels  to 
voluntarily  use  fuel  with  a  sulphur  content  of  less  than  0.5% 
when  berthed  at  the  participating  ports  in  Shenzhen.  OOCL 
vessels also ensure that the sulphur content of our fuel is well 
below the IMO prescribed standard of 3.5% when sailing in the 
high seas. In 2016, OOCL achieved an average sulphur content 
of 2.52%.

Our Offices – Our focus is to create and maintain a “paperless 
office”  environment  by  eliminating  the  use  of  faxes  and 
unnecessary  paper  documents.  As  a  business  which  has 
traditionally  relied  on  paper  documentation  with  customers, 
such  as  bills  of  lading  and  invoices,  we  have  successfully 
taken  innovative  measures  to  effectively  reduce  our  paper 
consumption since 2006.

We have implemented a “reduce, re-use and recycle” campaign 
in  all  our  offices  around  the  world,  encouraging  employees 
to  switch  off  computers  after  work,  powering  off  copiers  and 
lights  after  use,  and  to  install  energy  saving  office  equipment, 
such  as  energy  efficient  light  bulbs.  We  also  have  mandatory 
training  for  all  staff  in  safety,  security  and  environmental 
issues,  and  organise  OOCL  Green  Week  every  July  in  offices 
around the world.

Our  Terminals  –  Following  our  tradition  of  best  practices, 
our  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  (LBCT  LLC)  continued 
to  exceed  all  environmental  requirements  by  the  US 
Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA),  the  State  of 
California’s  Air  Resources  Board  (CARB),  and  the  Port  of 
Long Beach’s (POLB) Green Port Policy in 2016.

LBCT took a giant leap forward in environmental stewardship 
when  the  first  phase  of  our  MHRP  project  went  live  in  April 
2016,  ushering  in  what  is  demonstrably  one  of  the  greenest 
container  terminal  in  the  world.  With  the  inaugural  call  of 
the  OOCL  Long  Beach,  the  vessel  was  plugged  into  shore 
power (AMP) to mark the first ever Zero Emission vessel call 
at  LBCT.  With  the  all-electric  cranes  and  fleet  of  Automated 
Guided  Vehicles  (AGVs)  powered  by  clean  energy  sources 

28

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Corporate Responsibility

vessels  at  berth  and  the  higher  productivity  level  helped 
shorten the vessel berthing period to achieve bunker saving as 
well as emission reduction.

Our  Containers  –  Today,  OOCL  only  uses  CFC-free 
refrigerants  for  all  of  our  refrigerated  (reefer)  containers. 
OOCL’s newest reefer containers have one of the lowest power 
consumption  in  the  industry,  and  we  install  ThermoKing 
“EcoPower”  gensets  for  better  energy  efficiency.  All  our 
containers  have  been  applied  with  tin-free  paint  and  we  have 
introduced the use of eco-friendly bamboo floorboards instead 
of the traditional hardwood ones.

The  Group’s  sustainability  and  environmentally  conscious 
practices in many aspects, often exceed legal requirements and 
general  industry  standards  in  the  countries  where  it  operates. 
As  a  responsible  and  committed  member  of  the  international 
community,  the  Group  will  continually  strive  for  further 
improvement in all aspects of its business.

SECURITY
In a world where global cargo security threats always increase 
the complexities of the international trade community, OOCL 
is strongly committed to the security of our operations against 
possible  compromise  and  to  the  maintenance  of  the  highest 
level  of  compliance  in  security  related  areas.  From  our  offices 
to  ports,  warehouses,  shore  facilities  and  onboard  our  vessels, 
we  work  with  the  responsible  authorities  to  ensure  that  every 
measure  is  in  place  to  maintain  the  highest  commercial  and 
operational  security  standards  possible  at  all  times,  while 
all  employees  are  educated  and  regularly  updated  through 
security training.

The Group’s Corporate Security Policy and internal guidelines 
comply  with  the  US  Customs-Trade  Partnership  Against 
Terrorism  (C-TPAT)  initiative,  EU  Authorised  Economic 
Operator  (AEO)  Program,  and  we  actively  work  with  various 
governments  and  authorities  around  the  world  to  counter 
any  act  that  would  impinge  upon  maritime  or  cargo  security. 
Under  our  policy,  we  have  internal  security  checks  to  all  of 
its holdings and our security profile has been validated by the 
US  Customs  and  Border  Protection  agency  through  physical 
checks  of  the  offices  and  facilities  of  the  Group  including 
terminals, warehouses, depots and vessels.

Our  company  meets  the  International  Ship  and  Port  Facility 
Security Code (ISPS Code), which ensures that security threats 
are detected and assessed and preventive measures are in place 
on  our  vessels  and  at  our  port  facilities.  A  designated  officer 
on each ship and at each port facility reports to the Company 
Security  Officer  who  oversees  the  security  plans,  drills  and 
training.  With  this  in  place,  all  our  vessels  continue  to  have 
an  exemplary  record  containing  zero  breaches  of  security  and 
clean  detention  records.  In  addition,  to  provide  world-class 
quality  and  secure  information  to  customers  and  partners, 
our Global Data Centre has also achieved and maintained ISO 
27001 certification.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

29

The  last  pre-2007  yard  tractors  at  LBCT’s  Pier  F  facility 
have  now  been  removed  from  service.  Our  entire  remaining 
fleet  of  yard  tractors  is  now  equipped  with  engines  meeting 
or  exceeding  the  2007  On-Road  emissions  standards,  again 
among the cleanest in the world.

At  LBCT,  from  the  executive  level  to  the  newest  front-line 
manager,  many  of  our  staff  actively  engage  in  a  wide  variety 
of outdoor activities. Our dedication to the company, coupled 
with  our  love  of  the  outdoors  means  that  when  it  comes  to 
sustainability, we Take It Personally.

In  2005,  our  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  (KAOCT)  in 
Taiwan  had  converted  its  entire  container  yard  to  a  “green” 
enterprise  by  replacing  its  straddle  carriers  operation  with 
electric rail mounted gantry cranes (RMGs) to improve energy 
and  operational  efficiencies.  As  a  result  of  the  improvements 
made  over  the  years,  electricity  consumption  throughput 
decreased  by  19.7%,  from  17.3  kWh/TEU  in  2005  to  13.9 
kWh/TEU in 2016.

Currently,  there  are  a  total  of  20  electrically  powered  RMGs 
in the terminal on a fixed-rail system and these gantry cranes 
are  emission-free,  quiet,  and  provide  a  much  safer  working 
environment  at  the  port.  The  equipment  has  not  only  helped 
improve  energy  efficiency  but  also  terminal  efficiency  as 
shipside productivity improved by 9.3% from 2005 to 2016 and 
during this same period, the annual throughput also increased 
by  67%.  This  has  enabled  KAOCT  to  effectively  handle  more 

Corporate Responsibility

OOCL  has  been  certified  as  a  “Partners  in  Protection”  (PIP) 
carrier  by  the  Canada  Border  Services  Agency  (CBSA) 
Partners in Protection. It is a voluntary program established by 
the CBSA to enhance border security, combat organised crime 
and  terrorism,  detect  and  prevent  contraband  smuggling,  and 
increase  awareness  of  issues  to  secure  the  flow  of  legitimate 
goods  and  travelers  across  the  US-Canadian  border.  OOCL 
applies  anti-piracy  measures  before  our  vessels  transit 
through  High  Risk  Areas  (HRA).  One  of  the  key  measures 
is  to  maintain  a  24-hour,  360-degree  anti-piracy  visual  and 
radar  watch  and  to  deploy  additional  watch-keepers  at  the 
bridge  and  on  deck  while  transiting  the  HRA  to  watch  out 
for  suspected  pirate  vessels.  Physical  measures  are  also 
utilised  onboard,  such  as  barbed  wires,  spikes,  and  night 
vision  binoculars.  Close  communication  is  always  maintained 
between ships and our Fleet Management Department (FMD) 
office. FMD’s 24-hour emergency hotline is always on standby 
mode in the case of any emergency.

Traditionally,  antivirus  and  malware  detection  software 
would  provide  a  boost  to  our  computer  security  by  helping 
our  computers  stay  away  from  being  ‘infected’.  But  as  the 
development  of  the  Internet  is  becoming  more  sophisticated 
than ever, signature-based virus/malware detection tools alone 
are no longer sufficient today.

This  is  because  the  ‘Advanced  Persistent  Threat’,  a  set  of 
stealthy  and  continuous  computer  hacking  processes  often 
orchestrated  by  attackers  targeting  a  specific  entity  by  taking 
advantage  of  security  loopholes,  is  growing.  APT  has  been 
observed  to  target  organizations  and/or  nations  for  business, 
financial  and/or  political  motives.  ‘Corporate  Security 
Breaches’,  ‘Email  Spoofing’,  ‘Spear  Phishing’  and  ‘Social 
Media Fraud’ are some of the common types of cyber attacks. 
To  boost  our  employee’s  knowledge  and  awareness  of  cyber 
security, new initiatives and programs have been developed to 
ensure everyone takes part in protecting our assets and become 
more  resilient  against  such  threats.  This  includes  an  annual 
cyber  security  training  and  mandatory  test  for  all  employees, 
monthly  knowledge  and  trend  updates,  and  sophisticated 
monitoring and protective systems.

COMMUNITY AND EDUCATION
As  a  responsible  corporate  citizen  the  Group  recognises 
that  the  societies  in  which  its  employees  live  and  work 
contribute  greatly  to  the  company’s  overall  success.  Care  for 
these  communities  in  which  it  operates  is  therefore  a  major 
corporate  focus.  The  Group  concentrates  its  community 
efforts on charity programs designed to provide well-rounded 
youth  education,  charity  relief  to  the  needy,  and  cultural 
entertainment to the whole community.

30

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

OOCL  employees  across  the  world  are  encouraged  to  give 
something back to the communities in which they live through 
charitable  activities  such  as  fundraising  and  volunteering  by 
dedicating their time and efforts to help others in need. Some 
of  the  areas  where  the  charity  donations  were  made  by  the 
Group  and  its  employees  include:  education,  social  services, 
orphanages,  elderly  homes,  schools,  children’s  hospitals, 
cancer  research,  multiple  sclerosis,  and  diabetes  research.  In 
addition  to  financial  donations,  the  Group  also  contributes 
in kind. We offer transportation and logistics support to send 
relief  to  the  affected  areas.  Assistance  in  the  form  of  free 
transportation is often given to a number of charitable projects 
including  transporting  medical  diagnostic  equipment  and 
supplies from the US to China to care for those children who 
need urgent treatments.

In  keeping  with  the  Group’s  long  tradition  in  supporting 
education,  the  Group,  in  partnership  with  The  Tung 
Foundation,  committed  more  than  US$548,000  in  2016 
to  scholarships  through  The  Tung  OOCL  Scholarship  for 
students and our employees’ children.

In  2016,  forty-two  OOCL  vessels  participated  in  the  Hong 
Kong  Voluntary  Observing  Ship  (HKVOS)  program  by 
the  Hong  Kong  Observatory  (HKO)  to  gather  and  provide 
marine  climatology  data  needed  to  help  identify  prevailing 
weather conditions for preparing forecasts and warnings to the 
maritime community. To recognise vessels’ outstanding efforts 
in volunteering their time to help improve maritime safety, the 
HKO presented one ‘Diamond Award’, one ‘Platinum Award’, 
and  three  ‘Gold  Awards’  to  a  total  of  five  OOCL  vessels  on 
31st  May  2016.  Apart  from  the  quantity  of  the  reports  made, 
nine  OOCL  vessels  were  also  presented  with  participation 
certificates  jointly  issued  by  the  World  Meteorological 
Organization  (WMO)  and  Intergovernmental  Oceanographic 
Commission  of  UNESCO  (IOC)  for  the  high  quality  of  the 
reports  sent.  According  to  the  HKO,  observational  data 
received  from  these  ships  in  the  Voluntary  Observing  Ship 
Scheme  Climate  Fleet  (VOSClim)  are  highly  valued  by  the 
international  scientific  community  for  climate  research  and 
climate change studies.

KEY RELATIONSHIPS WITH CUSTOMERS 
AND SUPPLIERS
“Customer  focus”  is  one  of  the  core  values  of  the  Group.  We 
believe  in  long-term,  mutually  beneficial  relationships  with 
our customers and strive to help create value for our customers 
through  collaboration  to  enhance  customer  competitiveness. 
This  is  achieved  by  seeing  things  from  the  customer’s 
perspective, trying to understand their business and anticipate 
their  requirements.  All  employees  are  trained  to  be  proactive 
in  meeting  customers’  expectations  and  responding  with  a 
sense of urgency.

“We  Take  It  Personally”  is  not  just  a  slogan  at  OOCL,  but 
also an attitude that all employees are encouraged to adopt in 
dealing with our customers. Each year we recognise hundreds 
of  employees  around  the  world  for  displaying  initiative  and 
going beyond the call of duty to meet our customers’ needs.

Corporate Responsibility

It  is  the  Group’s  policy  to  maintain  a  diversified  customer 
base across all geographical regions and trade lanes. A key risk 
indicator (“KRI”) of customer concentration was developed in 
the year 2016 and is included in the functional risk dashboard 
for  the  Group’s  liners  business  which  is  being  monitored  on 
a  monthly  basis.  Different  tolerance  limits  for  the  KRI  are  set 
for  regions,  trades  and  the  organization  as  a  whole.  Overall 
speaking,  the  level  of  customer  concentration  in  2016  was 
acceptable.  As  at  the  end  of  2016,  OOCL  had  approximately 
29,000 active customers.

In  the  Group’s  relationship  with  suppliers,  we  put  special 
emphasis  on  the  supplier  selection  process  in  which  both 
quantitative  and  qualitative  factors  are  considered  objectively, 
independently  and  openly,  according  to  the  Group’s  highest 
ethical  standards.  Pricing  is  not  the  Group’s  primary 
consideration;  instead,  the  Group  focuses  its  attention  on 
the  suppliers’  quality  service,  safety  and  ethical  standards. 
“Excellence  through  quality”  is  another  core  value  of  the 
Group. While we endeavour to provide the best quality service 
to  our  customers  by  setting  high  standards  for  ourselves,  we 
demand the same high standards from our suppliers. It is also 
the  Group’s  policy  to  maintain  a  diversified  supplier  base 
across all geographical regions.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

31

Corporate Responsibility

In  2016,  the  Group  developed  supplier  management  KRIs 
to  monitor  supplier  concentration  in  different  regions  and 
poor  supplier  service.  Cases  of  supplier  service  failure  were 
shared  among  employees  to  alert  them  to  the  importance  of 
communicating  our  expectations  to  the  suppliers  and  taking 
the  right  remedial  mitigating  actions.  Overall  speaking,  the 
level  of  supplier  concentration  in  2016  was  acceptable.  As 
at  the  end  of  2016,  OOCL  had  approximately  20,000  active 
suppliers.

EMPLOYEE INFORMATION
As  a  responsible  corporate  citizen  employing  the  highest 
standards  of  business  ethics  in  all  that  it  does,  the  Group 
understands  that  the  process  begins  with  the  well  treatment 
of  its  employees.  As  a  successful  corporation,  the  Group 
appreciates  that  its  success,  growth  and  performance  are 
attributable  to  the  skills,  dedication  and  teamwork  of  its 
employees. It regards people as its greatest asset and takes good 
care of them.

In  the  spirit  of  mutual  respect,  the  Group  is  an  equal 
opportunity  employer  with  a  clearly  defined  policy,  covering 
areas  such  as  treating  all  employees  with  fairness  and  dignity, 
promoting  the  corporate  culture  of  encouraging  open  and 
frank  communication  throughout  the  organisation,  investing 
in  its  employees  and  caring  for  their  hopes  and  aspirations 
through  people  development  programs  and  education,  as  well 
as recognising their efforts and achievements.

People  development  remains  a  cornerstone  of  the  corporate 
culture  and  enables  the  effective  operation  of  the  Group’s 
career  development  policy  through  recruitment  and  internal 
promotion.  The  Group  has  channeled  a  great  deal  of  time 
and  effort  into  its  various  people  development  programs  in 
practical  and  experiential  environments  through  job  rotation, 
local  and  overseas  job  assignments,  formal  and  informal 
learning  and  development  opportunities  and  sponsorships  for 
performance enhancement building capacities of employees in 
support  of  their  growth  with  the  Group.  To  further  enhance 
practical training and better HQ/Regional cooperation, efforts 
have been made to initiate more short term cross regional job 
rotations.

32

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

The  Group  employs  an  innovative  approach  to  internal 
communications,  employee  learning  and  people  development. 
The Group recognises that on demand performance support to 
its  employees  is  the  key  to  help  them  deliver  what  customers 
need and unleash potential. Since 2010, the Group has utilised 
its  intranet,  called  “InfoNet”,  as  a  learner-centric  platform 
for  dissemination  of  company  news  and  business  updates 
while providing its employees with a tool to share knowledge, 
exchange  views  and  formulate  ideas.  In  2011,  the  Group 
adopted a wide range of enterprise level collaboration tools. In 
addition  to  conventional  methods  of  communication  such  as 
email, other tools such as OOCL Wiki, OOCL Channel, Jabber, 
and Tibbr, have become very effective in the global sharing of 
information  and  knowledge  as  well  as  facilitate  collaboration 
amongst  colleagues  around  the  world.  They  have  also  helped 
us support accelerated learning by providing us with the means 
to  leverage  resources,  ideas  and  hence  solutions.  Since  2016, 
we  have  also  enlisted  the  resourceful  usage  of  the  Office  365 
cloud-based  information  platform  to  further  our  internal 
communication goals.

As  at  31st  December  2016,  the  Group  had  10,247  full-time 
employees.  Their  salary  and  benefit  levels  are  maintained  at 
competitive  levels.  Employees  are  rewarded  on  a  performance 
related  basis  within  the  general  policy  and  framework  of 
the  Group’s  salary  and  bonus  schemes  which  are  regularly 
reviewed.  Other  benefits  including  medical  insurance  and 
pension  funds  are  also  provided,  and  social  and  recreational 
activities are organised around the world.

In  the  interest  of  adhering  to  the  highest  ethical  standards 
on  an  ongoing  basis,  the  Group  has  a  formulated  Code  of 
Conduct  which  serves  as  a  guideline  to  ensure  compliance 
with all local, national and international legal standards and to 
preclude offences under local, national and international laws, 
any  breaches  of  confidentiality,  non-disclosure  requirements 
or intellectual property rights and any conflicts of interest, acts 
of  bribery,  corruption  or  political  contribution  and  any  other 
areas of deemed misconduct. The Group has set up procedures 
to identify, manage and control risks that may have an impact 
on the business of the Group. Established in 2006, the Group’s 
“Whistle  Blower  Policy”  is  one  of  the  Group’s  formalised 
procedures  through  which  employees  can  anonymously  file 
reports  or  register  concerns  and  helps  govern  the  reporting 
and  thorough  investigation  of  allegations  of  suspected 
improper activities.

The  Group  is  an  equal  opportunity  employer  with  policies 
not  to  discriminate  against  any  employee  or  applicant  for 
employment  on  the  grounds  of  race,  colour,  religion,  creed, 
age,  sex,  disability,  pregnancy,  childbirth  and  related  medical 
condition,  marital  status,  sexual  orientation,  veteran  status 
and  any  other  category  as  guided  by  local  laws  and  legal 
regulations.

Corporate Responsibility

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

33

Financial Review

Financial Review
Financial Review

The first phase of our Middle 
Harbor Redevelopment 
Project in California 
commenced operations in 
April 2016.

34

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
Financial Review

Analysis of Consolidated Profit and Loss Account

Summary of Group Results

US$’000

Operating revenue by activity:

Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities

Group operating revenue

Operating (loss)/profit by activity:
Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities

Group operating (loss)/profit
Finance costs
Share of profits of joint ventures and  

associated companies

Net gain in fair value on investment property

(Loss)/profit before taxation
Taxation

(Loss)/profit attributable to shareholders

2016

2015

Change

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

5,270,323
27,370

5,297,693

5,927,023
26,421

5,953,444

(202,529)
45,780

(156,749)
(79,393)

17,953

(218,189)
18,522

(199,667)
(19,554)

(219,221)

276,211
57,312

333,523
(63,642)

17,782

287,663
19,545

307,208
(23,357)

283,851

(656,700)
949

(655,751)

(478,740)
(11,532)

(490,272)
(15,751)

171

(505,852)
(1,023)

(506,875)
3,803

(503,072)

(11%)
4%

(11%)

N/M
(20%)

N/M
(25%)

1%

N/M
(5%)

N/M
16%

N/M

Revenue for 2016 was US$655.8 million lower than that of 2015, representing a decrease of 11%. This was mainly attributable to 
the  lower  freight  rates  recorded  in  the  core  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  business.  Other  revenue,  amounting  to  less  than 
1% of the Group’s revenue for both 2016 and 2015, represented rental income from the Group’s investment property, Wall Street 
Plaza, in New York.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

35

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Container Transport and Logistics

Summary of Operating Results

US$’000

Liftings (TEUs)

Revenue per TEU (US$)

Operating revenue by location:

Asia/Australia
North America
Europe

Operating revenue

Operating costs by items:

Cargo costs
Bunker costs
Vessel and voyage costs (excluding Bunker)
Equipment and repositioning costs

2016

2015

6,080,682

5,575,874

773

936

3,776,550
761,456
732,317

5,270,323

(2,930,530)
(435,238)
(935,145)
(715,711)

4,077,784
835,387
1,013,852

5,927,023

(2,927,464)
(603,193)
(995,356)
(721,408)

Operating costs

(5,016,624)

(5,247,421)

Gross profit
Business and administrative expenses
Other income, net

Operating (loss)/profit

Operating margin

253,699
(463,878)
7,650

(202,529)

(4%)

679,602
(437,644)
34,253

276,211

5%

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

9%

(17%)

(7%)
(9%)
(28%)

(11%)

(0%)
28%
6%
1%

4%

(63%)
(6%)
(78%)

N/M

Change

504,808

(163)

(301,234)
(73,931)
(281,535)

(656,700)

(3,066)
167,955
60,211
5,697

230,797

(425,903)
(26,234)
(26,603)

(478,740)

The Container Transport and Logistics business trades under the “OOCL” name and represents the principal revenue contributor 
to the Group, accounting for over 99% of the Group’s revenue in 2016. Container Transport and Logistics will continue to be the 
core business of the Group in which the majority of the Group’s operating assets will be deployed.

Operating Revenue of Container Transport and Logistics

17%

14%

69%

14%

14%

72%

100%

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

2015

2016

Asia/Australia

North America

Europe

The  operating  results  for  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  also  include  the  operations  of  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  in 
California  USA  and  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in  Taiwan  as  these  facilities  are  mainly  employed  by  OOCL  and  its  alliance 
members.

36

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Asia/Australia

Revenue from the Asia/Australia area decreased from US$4,077.8 million in 2015 to US$3,776.6 million in 2016 as a result of a 
drop in freight rates. Nearly all trades recorded a setback in performance with Intra-Asia and Trans-Pacific trades registered the 
largest shortfall in revenue terms when compared with last year.

The overall liftings of the Trans-Pacific eastbound services increased by 18% while freight rates declined by 23% when compared 
with  last  year.  The  westbound  legs  of  the  Asia/Northern  Europe  services  recorded  an  8%  growth  in  volume  amid  a  21%  drop 
in rates. Intra-Asia sustained a  modest  4%  growth in liftings for  the  year but a 15% retreat  in freight  rates. Liftings of the Asia/
Australia and New Zealand services rose by 14% in 2016 while freight rates fell by 15% compared with last year.

Overall load factor as a percentage of the capacity available during 2016 was 3 percentage points higher than that of 2015, amid 
a  5%  increase  in  available  capacity  during  the  year.  Results  from  this  region  have  always  been  dependent  upon  the  economic 
environment and consumption patterns of North America and Europe.

Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in  Taiwan  is  an  integral  part  of  the  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  business  and  its  terminal 
facilities are mainly employed by OOCL and its alliance members.

North America

Revenue decreased by US$73.9 million for this area in 2016 with declining freight rates more than offsetting the growth in volume. 
Both Asia-bound and Europe-bound cargoes recorded a drop in average freight rates, which accounted for the revenue shortfall.

The westbound liftings of the Asia/North America West Coast service and the Asia/US East Coast service via the Panama Canal 
increased by 18% compared with last year but revenue showed a 12% decrease, mainly due to a 25% decline in freight rates. The 
eastbound Canada/Northern Europe and US East Coast/Northern Europe services also recorded a 5% growth in volume but a 15% 
drop in revenue.

The overall volumes increased by 15% while the average revenue per TEU on all outbound cargoes from North America recorded 
a drop of 24% as compared with last year. Amid an 11% increase in capacity during the year, the overall load factor in the region 
was 2 percentage points better than 2015.

Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  forms  an  integral  part  of  the  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  business  with  its  terminal 
facilities mainly employed by OOCL and its alliance partners.

Europe

Revenue  for  this  area  further  dropped  by  US$281.5  million  in  2016.  The  eastbound  leg  of  the  Asia/Northern  Europe  services 
recorded  a  21%  revenue  decline  in  2016  while  the  westbound  trades  of  the  Trans-Atlantic  routes  showed  a  6%  drop.  Modest 
revenue decline was noted in the Mediterranean markets while the Intra-Europe trades also recorded revenue setback.

The  eastbound  leg  of  the  Asia/Northern  Europe  services  saw  a  4%  decrease  in  volume  in  2016,  which  was  aggravated  by  a  17% 
decline in freight rates. Liftings for the westbound sectors of the Canada/Northern Europe and US East Coast/Northern Europe 
services were 11% higher than those of 2015 while the average revenue per TEU for both services was 15% lower than last year. 
The  eastbound  routes  of  the  Mediterranean  trades  sustained  a  14%  growth  in  volume  but  a  4%  decrease  in  revenue  during  the 
year.

The overall load factor as a percentage of capacity available for cargo shipments from this region was 1 percentage point higher 
than that of 2015 with a 3% capacity increase for the Europe area during 2016.

The average revenue per TEU on all outbound cargoes from Europe was 15% lower than that of 2015, amid a 5% growth in overall 
volume for the region.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

37

Financial Review

Revenue per TEU by Services

US$

1,800 

1,600 

1,400 

1,200 

1,000 

800 

600 

400 

Q1 2015

Q2 2015

Q3 2015

Q4 2015

Q1 2016

Q2 2016

Q3 2016

Q4 2016

Trans-Pacific

Asia-Europe

Trans-Atlantic

Intra-Asia/Australia

All Trades

Operating Costs

The principal operating costs of the container transport business, including cargo costs, vessel costs, voyage costs, equipment and 
repositioning costs, decreased from 2015 mainly as a result of savings in bunker cost.

Cargo  costs  mainly  consist  of  terminal  charges,  inland  transportation  costs,  commission  and  brokerage,  cargo  assessment  and 
freight  tax,  all  of  which  are  largely  paid  in  the  local  currencies  of  the  areas  in  which  the  activities  take  place.  Cargo  cost  was 
contained at 2015 level despite an increase in liftings, thanks to a stronger US dollar for the year.

Average Bunker Price per Ton

US$

400

300

200

100

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr May

Jun

Jul

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

Dec

2015

2016

38

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Financial Review

Voyage costs comprise mainly bunker costs, port charges, canal dues, cargo claims and insurance. Bunker price softened from an 
average of US$311 per ton in 2015 to an average of US$216 per ton in 2016, resulting in a 28% drop in bunker cost for the year.

Vessel  costs  include  the  operating  costs  and  depreciation  charges  relating  to  the  OOCL  fleet  as  well  as  the  net  charter  hire  and 
slot hire expenses incurred in order to maintain the scheduled service levels. With the phase-in of larger capacity vessels, the total 
carrying capacity grew from 561,421 TEU as at the end of 2015 to 574,318 TEU in 2016, while the total number of vessels operated 
by OOCL, both owned and chartered-in, decreased from 103 to 96. As such, total vessel and voyage costs, other than bunker costs, 
for 2016 decreased from those of 2015 with a lower charter hire expense for the year.

Equipment  costs  principally  represent  maintenance  and  repair  costs,  rental  payments,  depot  expenses  and  depreciation  charges 
relating  to  the  fleet  of  containers  and  chassis  equipment,  while  repositioning  costs  arise  mainly  from  the  relocation  of  empty 
containers  from  areas  of  low  activity  to  high  demand  regions.  The  container  fleet  size  increased  from  967,015  TEU  in  2015  to 
1,031,583  TEU  in  2016  while  total  equipment  and  repositioning  costs  were  contained  at  last  year  level  with  increased  owned 
equipment and less rental outgoings.

Operating costs

2015

14%

19%

11%

56%

2016

14%

19%

9%

58%

Cargo costs

Bunker costs

Vessel and voyage costs
(excluding Bunker)

Equipment and 
repositioning costs

Business and Administrative Expenses

Business  and  administrative  expenses  largely  comprise  staff  costs,  office  expenses,  selling  and  marketing  costs,  professional  and 
information  system  expenses.  Business  and  administrative  expenses  increased  by  US$26.2  million,  or  6%  when  compared  with 
2015.

Other Income, net

Other income, comprising principally net foreign exchange differences, net profit or loss on the disposal of assets and other non-
operating gains/losses, net for 2016 was US$26.6 million lower than that of 2015 for the reason that a loss was recognised on asset 
disposals and no de-recognition gain of borrowings occurred.

Operating margin

Operating margin dropped from 5% in 2015 to negative 4% in 2016. Despite a drop in total operating costs, the significant drop in 
freight rates resulted in the deterioration of the profitability of the Container Transport and Logistics business in 2016.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

39

Financial Review

Other Activities

Summary of Operating Results

US$’000

Rental income
Elimination

Operating revenue
Operating costs

Gross profit
Investment income
Interest income
Distributions from investment in Hui Xian
Others

Operating profit

2016

27,986
(616)

27,370
(15,648)

11,722
9,934
14,850
29,048
(19,774)

45,780

2015

27,364
(943)

26,421
(15,008)

11,413
11,461
14,215
30,550
(10,327)

57,312

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

2%
N/M

4%
(4%)

3%
(13%)
4%
(5%)
(91%)

(20%)

Change

622
327

949
(640)

309
(1,527)
635
(1,502)
(9,447)

(11,532)

The  Group  owns  an  approximately  600,000  sq  ft  office  and  commercial  property,  Wall  Street  Plaza,  located  at  88  Pine  Street, 
New York, USA, an area popularly referred to as the “Wall Street area”. The building was constructed in 1972 and is operated as 
a  multi-tenanted  building.  Approximately  8,656  sq  ft  is  occupied  by  Group  companies.  The  Group  also  invests  funds  surplus  to 
operations in cash and bank deposit and, on a longer term basis, in equity and bond portfolios. The Group also owns 7.9% interest 
in Hui Xian Holdings Ltd which is one of the largest unit-holder of Hui Xian REIT, the first Renminbi-denominated REIT in Hong 
Kong.

The operating profit from Other Activities for 2016 was US$11.5 million lower than that of 2015 mainly as a result of exchange 
losses on the depreciation of Renminbi and Pound sterling against US dollar.

Rental Income

Rental income from Wall Street Plaza was US$0.9 million higher than that of last year, with an occupancy rate of 98% as at the end 
of 2016.

Investment Income

Compared with a profit of US$11.5 million in 2015, investment activities recorded a profit of US$9.9 million for the year. Interest 
income from bond investments increased slightly in 2016, which was more than offset by impairment and fair value loss recorded 
for the year. Disposal loss and impairment loss on Hui Xian REIT totalling US$17.2 million was recognised in 2016. These losses 
were mostly recycled from the available-for-sale financial assets revaluation reserve.

US$’000

25,000

20,000

15,000

10,000

5,000

0

(5,000)

(10,000)

(15,000)

Investment Income By Activities

21,265

22,607

(10,948)

(13,638)

1,144

965

Interest income from
investments

Impairment,
fair value and
disposal loss

2015

2016

Dividend income

40

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Interest Income

Interest  income  in  2016  was  comparable  with  that  of  2015  with  a  lower  average  balance  available  for  deposit  compensated  by  a 
higher interest rate.

Distributions from Investment in Hui Xian

Hui Xian Holdings Ltd declared and paid both cash dividends and dividends in specie in 2016, of which the Group shared a total 
of US$22.1 million. The Group also received distributions of US$6.9 million from its direct holding of Hui Xian REIT units during 
the year, resulting in a total contribution of US$29.0 million from Hui Xian in 2016. In 2015, a total of US$24.8 million from Hui 
Xian  Holdings  Ltd,  in  terms  of  cash  dividends  and  dividends  in  specie,  and  a  US$5.8  million  distribution  from  Hui  Xian  REIT 
were received.

Others

Other  items  include  business  and  administrative  expenses  for  property  management,  exchange  differences  and  other 
miscellaneous items. This item was US$9.4 million higher than 2015 as a result of exchange losses incurred on the depreciation of 
Renminbi and Pound sterling against US dollar during the year.

Finance Costs

The Group incurs interest expenses on bank loans, finance leases and, to a very small extent, bank overdrafts. These borrowings 
are variously secured against vessels, containers, chassis and terminal equipment owned by the Group. Finance costs also include 
fees on lease administration.

Finance  costs  increased  by  US$15.8  million  as  compared  with  2015,  principally  a  result  of  a  higher  average  cost  of  debt  for  the 
year.

Net Gain in Fair Value on Investment Property

As at 31st December 2016, the Group’s investment property, Wall Street Plaza, was valued at US$220 million, up from the US$200 
million valuation at the end of 2015, by an independent valuer. After offsetting a total of US$1.5 million capital improvements, the 
net gain in fair value for 2016 was therefore US$18.5 million. In 2015, the property recorded a valuation gain of US$20.0 million 
which was offset against capital improvements of US$0.5 million to result in a net fair value gain of US$19.5 million.

Share of Profits of Joint Ventures and Associated Companies

Share of profits of joint ventures and associated companies mainly represents the Group’s investment in a depot joint venture in 
Qingdao,  two  agency  joint  ventures  in  the  Middle  East,  and  a  20%  stake  in  two  terminals  in  Tianjin  and  Ningbo.  The  share  of 
US$18.0 million profit from joint ventures and associated companies in 2016 was comparable with that of 2015.

(Loss)/profit before Taxation

Pre-tax loss for the year was US$199.7 million compared with last year’s profit of US$307.2 million. The reverse in earnings was 
mainly attributable to the lowering freight rates experienced by the Container Transport and Logistics business.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

41

Financial Review

Taxation

US$’000

Company and subsidiaries:

North America
Europe
China
Asia and others

Total

2016

8,901
1,330
5,800
3,523

19,554

2015

Change

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

12,728
1,480
4,728
4,421

23,357

(3,827)
(150)
1,072
(898)

(3,803)

30%
10%
(23%)
20%

16%

Taxation for 2016 was US$3.8 million lower than that of 2015 with the setback in operating results.

Capital Expenditure

US$’000

Container vessels and capitalised dry-docking costs
Vessels under construction
Containers and chassis
Terminal equipment
Vehicles, furniture, computer and other equipment
Computer software
Investment property

2016

15,683
260,558
107,711
52,895
27,513
12,799
1,478

478,637

2015

23,870
506,056
169,576
58,422
27,317
11,024
455

796,720

Change

(8,187)
(245,498)
(61,865)
(5,527)
196
1,775
1,023

(318,083)

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(34%)
(49%)
(36%)
(9%)
1%
16%
225%

(40%)

Capital expenditure decreased from US$796.7 million in 2015 to US$478.6 million in 2016. Vessels under construction accounted 
for  54%  and  64%  of  the  total  capital  expenditure  in  2016  and  2015  respectively  while  capital  outlays  on  container  equipment 
increased from 21% of 2015 to 23% in 2016.

Vessels

During 2016, the Group took no delivery of, nor placed new orders for, newbuildings.

As at the end of 2016, the Group had outstanding orders for six 20,000 TEU class vessels from Samsung Heavy Industries, Korea, 
to be delivered in 2017 and 2018.

Newbuilding Delivery Schedule

Delivery

May 2017
Aug 2017
Sep 2017
Oct 2017
Nov 2017
Jan 2018

Shipyard

Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries
Samsung Heavy Industries

Hull No.

HN2172
HN2173
HN2174
HN2175
HN2176
HN2177

TEU

21,000
21,000
21,000
21,000
21,000
21,000

Year of Order

2015
2015
2015
2015
2015
2015

42

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Review of Consolidated Balance Sheet

Summary of Consolidated Balance Sheet

US$’000

Property, plant and equipment
Investment property and prepayments of  

lease premiums

Joint ventures and associated companies
Intangible assets
Liquid assets
Accounts receivable and other assets
Other non-current assets

TOTAL ASSETS
Accounts payable and other liabilities
Current taxation

TOTAL ASSETS LESS TRADING LIABILITIES
Long-term borrowings
Short-term borrowings, overdrafts and current  

portion of long-term borrowings

Total debt
Deferred liabilities
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

CAPITAL EMPLOYED
Debt to equity ratio
Net debt to equity ratio
Accounts payable as a % of revenue
Accounts receivable as a % of revenue
% return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Net asset value per ordinary share (US$)
Liquid assets per ordinary share (US$)
Share price at 31st December (US$)
Price to book ratio based on share price  

at 31st December

Property, Plant and Equipment

US$’000

Vessels
Containers and chassis
Terminal equipment
Land and buildings
Others

Financial Review

2016

2015

6,076,673

6,020,744

227,818
152,037
60,143
2,186,946
664,655
36,318

9,404,590
(706,609)
(4,764)

8,693,217
3,489,272

208,462
157,007
55,646
2,548,976
710,977
29,762

9,731,574
(766,731)
(3,464)

8,961,379
3,663,100

Change

55,929

19,356
(4,970)
4,497
(362,030)
(46,322)
6,556

(326,984)
60,122
(1,300)

(268,162)
(173,828)

601,465

438,619

162,846

(10,982)
21,044
(278,224)

(268,162)

4,090,737
83,194
4,519,286

8,693,217
0.91
0.42
13.14
8.95
(4.71)
7.22
3.49
4.12

4,101,719
62,150
4,797,510

8,961,379
0.85
0.32
12.60
8.39
6.02
7.67
4.07
4.78

0.57

0.62

2016

4,346,683
1,226,330
413,522
33,732
56,406

2015

4,269,560
1,274,923
388,737
37,640
49,884

6,076,673

6,020,744

Change

77,123
(48,593)
24,785
(3,908)
6,522

55,929

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

1%

9%
(3%)
8%
(14%)
(7%)
22%

(3%)
(8%)
38%

(3%)
(5%)

37%

(0%)
34%
(6%)

(3%)

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

2%
(4%)
6%
(10%)
13%

1%

Container Transport and Logistics remains the core business of the Group and the one in which the majority of property, plant and 
equipment  is  deployed.  The  assets  largely  comprise  container  vessels,  containers  and  chassis,  terminal  equipment,  property  and 
computer equipment.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

43

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

The  increase  in  property,  plant  and  equipment  in  2016  principally  reflects  the  outlays  on  newbuildings  and  new  terminal 
equipment for the Middle Harbor Redevelopment Project.

Investment Property and Prepayments of Lease Premiums

US$’000

Investment property
Prepayments of lease premiums

2016

220,000
7,818

227,818

2015

200,000
8,462

208,462

Change

20,000
(644)

19,356

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

10%
(8%)

9%

Investment  property  represents  the  Group’s  commercial  building,  Wall  Street  Plaza,  in  New  York.  The  building  was  valued  at 
US$220.0 million as at the end of 2016 by an independent valuer (2015: US$200.0 million).

Joint Ventures and Associated Companies

US$’000

Joint ventures
Associated companies

2016

11,656
140,381

152,037

2015

11,758
145,249

157,007

Change

(102)
(4,868)

(4,970)

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(1%)
(3%)

(3%)

The  investment  in  associated  companies  comprises  minority  holdings  in  two  container  terminals  in  Tianjin  and  Ningbo.  The 
investments  in  joint  ventures  are  in  connection  with  (1)  a  container  depot  in  Qingdao,  and  (2)  two  shipping  agencies  in  the 
Middle East. The decrease in the investment value in joint ventures and associated companies for 2016 was mainly a result of the 
depreciation of Renminbi and dividends received.

Intangible Assets

US$’000

Opening balances
Additions
Amortisation

Closing balances

2016

55,646
12,799
(8,302)

60,143

2015

48,578
11,024
(3,956)

55,646

Change

7,068
1,775
(4,346)

4,497

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

15%
16%
110%

8%

Intangible assets mainly represent internally generated capitalised computer software development costs which are amortised over 
a period of five years.

44

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Liquid Assets

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities
Cash and portfolio funds
Held-to-maturity investments

Total liquid assets

2016

248,748
45,243
1,656,038
236,917

2,186,946

2015

285,436
42,309
1,985,153
236,078

2,548,976

Change

(36,688)
2,934
(329,115)
839

(362,030)

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(13%)
7%
(17%)
0%

(14%)

The  Group  adopts  a  central  treasury  system  under  which  a  part  of  the  funds  surplus  to  planned  requirements  is  set  aside  for 
portfolio investments in fixed income bonds or equities managed by in-house managers under guidelines imposed by the Board.

The Group’s investment portfolios are largely invested in US dollar bonds, short-term cash deposits or similar instruments, and 
listed equities. No investments are made in derivative investment products.

Held-to-maturity investments are entirely bonds intended to be held until maturity.

The Group’s total liquid assets at the end of 2015 and 2016 can be further analyzed as follows:

US$’000

Cash (per cashflow statement)
Bank overdrafts

Bank balances and deposits maturing within  
three months from the date of placement
Bank balances and deposits maturing over  
three months from the date of placement

Cash and bank balances (per balance sheet)
Restricted bank balances
Portfolio investments
Held-to-maturity investments

Total liquid assets

Accounts Receivable and Other Assets

2016

1,625,219
-

2015

1,737,511
14

Change

(112,292)
(14)

1,625,219

1,737,525

(112,306)

457

1,625,676
1,426
322,927
236,917

2,186,946

278,056

2,015,581
1,423
295,894
236,078

2,548,976

(277,599)

(389,905)
3
27,033
839

(362,030)

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities

2016

545,832
118,823

664,655

2015

558,825
152,152

710,977

Change

(12,993)
(33,329)

(46,322)

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(6%)
N/M

(6%)

(100%)

(19%)
0%
9%
0%

(14%)

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(2%)
(22%)

(7%)

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

45

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Accounts receivable and other assets for Container Transport and Logistics decreased by US$13.0 million to US$545.8 million at 
the end of 2016. The decrease was mainly attributable to the lower revenue achieved for the year.

Ageing Analysis of Trade Receivables

2015

2016

8%

2%

6%

2%

90%

92%

Below 1 month

2-3 months

Over 3 months

Accounts Payable and Other Liabilities

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities

2016

700,380
6,229

706,609

2015

760,439
6,292

766,731

Change

(60,059)
(63)

(60,122)

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(8%)
(1%)

(8%)

Accounts payable and other liabilities at the end of 2016 were US$60.1 million lower than that of 2015, mainly due to decreases in 
cost provisions.

Ageing Analysis of Trade Payables

2015

2016

67%

26%

7%

72%

22%

6%

Below 1 month

2-3 months

Over 3 months

46

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Total Debt

US$’000

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations
Bank overdrafts

2016

2,198,407
1,892,330
-

4,090,737

2015

2,293,928
1,807,777
14

4,101,719

Change

(95,521)
84,553
(14)

(10,982)

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(4%)
5%
N/M

(0%)

Total  debt  decreased  slightly  by  US$11.0  million  compared  with  2015,  with  the  financial  obligations  incurred  upon  capital 
expenditures on newbuildings and other equipment during the year more than offset by scheduled repayments.

Total scheduled debt repayment between 2017 and 2021 is US$2,770.0 million, being equivalent to 68% of the total outstanding 
debt  as  at  31st  December  2016.  Details  of  the  repayment  profile  of  the  Group’s  borrowings  are  set  out  in  Note  37  to  the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Debt Profile

As at the end of 2016, 100% (2015: 99%) of the Group’s total debt was denominated in US dollar which effectively eliminated the 
risk of exchange fluctuations.

Of  the  total  US$4,090.7  million  debt  outstanding  at  the  end  of  2016,  US$443.7  million  was  fixed-rate  debt  and  the  remaining 
US$3,647.0 million was subject to floating interest rates at various competitive spreads over one-month to six-month LIBOR (or 
equivalent) and related principally to the financing of vessels and container equipment. The Group’s average cost of debt at 31st 
December 2016 was 2.1% (2015: 2.0%).

Net Debt to Equity Ratio

This  ratio  changed  to  0.42:1  as  at  the  end  of  2016  from  0.32:1  as  at  the  end  of  2015  mainly  due  to  new  debts  relating  to 
newbuilding  orders  and  new  equipment  acquired  in  2016  and  operating  losses  incurred  for  the  year.  This  ratio  will  be  closely 
monitored in the light of the delivery and financing of new vessels ordered and business forecasts over the next three years. It is 
the Group’s objective to keep this key ratio below a threshold of 1.0.

Net Debt to Equity Ratio

Ratio

0.40

0.20

0.00

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Shareholders’ Equity

As  at  31st  December  2016,  the  Company  had  625,793,297  shares  in  issue,  consisting  entirely  of  ordinary  shares.  With  losses 
incurred for the year, the Group’s consolidated shareholders’ equity decreased by US$278.2 million to US$4,519.3 million as at the 
end of 2016 with a net asset value per ordinary share of US$7.22 (2015: US$7.67). Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity 
is a key measure for the Group’s objective to continuously enhance shareholders’ value. This ratio decreased from 6% in 2015 to 
negative  5%  in  2016,  which  is  mainly  due  to  the  deterioration  of  the  profitability  of  the  core  Container  Transport  and  Logistics 
business as a result of the lower freight rates in 2016.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

47

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Operating Leases and Commitments

In  addition  to  the  owned  operating  assets,  the  Group  employs  assets  through  operating  lease  arrangements  as  detailed  in  Note 
40(b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Assets under operating lease arrangements consist primarily of container boxes, 
container vessels and a terminal in North America.

As at the end of 2016, the Group had outstanding capital commitments amounting to US$664.0 million, principally represented by 
the outstanding orders for new container vessels and new equipment for the Middle Harbor Redevelopment Project.

Analysis of Change in Liquid Assets

US$’000

Net inflow from operations

Other inflow:

Interest and investment income
Sale of property, plant and equipment  

and investments
New loan drawdown
Cash from joint ventures and associated companies
Fair value gain on portfolio investments

Other outflow:

Interest and financing charges paid
Dividends paid to shareholders
Taxation paid
Increase in property, plant and equipment,  

investments, and non-current assets

Loan repayments
Fair value loss on portfolio investments

Net outflow
Beginning liquid asset balances
Changes in exchange rates

2016

149,343

2015

536,231

Change

(386,888)

55,802

52,957

2,845

108,010
910,985
17,383
-

(85,880)
(351,696)
(5,128)
3,658 

1,089,335

(436,201)

22,130
559,289
12,255
3,658

653,134

(72,343)
(11,604)
(8,529)

(291,166)
(787,761)
-

(62,492)
(81,579)
(15,458)

(377,002)
(1,215,668)
(10,948)

(1,171,403)

(1,763,147)

(368,926)
2,548,976
6,896

(137,581)
2,689,754
(3,197)

(9,851)
69,975
6,929

85,836
427,907
10,948

591,744

(231,345)
(140,778)
10,093

Ending liquid asset balances

2,186,946

2,548,976

(362,030)

Represented by:

Unrestricted bank balances and deposits
Restricted bank balances
Portfolio investments
Held-to-maturity investments

1,625,676
1,426
322,927
236,917

2,015,581
1,423
295,894
236,078

(389,905)
3
27,033
839

2,186,946

2,548,976

(362,030)

48

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

(72%)

5%

(80%)
(39%)
(30%)
N/M

(40%)

(16%)
86%
45%

23%
35%
N/M

34%

(168%)
(5%)
N/M

(14%)

(19%)
0%
9%
0%

(14%)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

A  net  outflow  of  US$368.9  million  was  recorded  in  2016  compared  with  a  net  outflow  of  US$137.6  million  in  2015.  Operating 
inflow of US$149.3 million for the year was US$386.9 million lower than that of 2015 pursuant to the adverse operating results. 
The capital payments in 2016 mainly reflected the scheduled stage payments arranged for the ordered vessels and the acquisition 
of container and terminal equipment. The higher drawdowns and repayments for 2015 were largely caused by the refinancing of 
existing borrowings which was much reduced in 2016. Total liquid asset balances decreased to US$2,186.9 million at the end of 
2016, against US$2,549.0 million in 2015.

Liquidity

As  at  31st  December  2016,  the  Group  had  total  liquid  asset  balances  of  US$2,186.9  million  compared  with  debt  obligations  of 
US$601.5 million repayable in 2017. Total current assets at the end of 2016 amounted to US$2,566.0 million against total current 
liabilities  of  US$1,312.8  million.  The  Group’s  shareholders’  equity  contains  no  loan  capital.  The  Group  prepares  and  updates 
cashflow  forecasts  for  asset  acquisitions,  project  development  requirements,  as  well  as  working  capital  needs,  from  time  to  time 
with  the  objective  of  maintaining  a  proper  balance  between  a  conservative  liquidity  level  and  an  effective  investment  of  surplus 
funds.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

49

Board of Directors

Board of Directors

Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen,  aged  74,  has  been  appointed  as  the  Chairman, 
President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the  Company  since  October 
1996.  Mr.  Tung  chairs  the  Executive  Committee,  the  Nomination 
Committee,  the  Inside  Information  Committee  and  the  Risk 
Committee  of  the  Company  and  is  a  member  of  the  Remuneration 
Committee  of  the  Company.  He  is  also  the  chairman  or  a  director 
of  various  subsidiaries  of  the  Company.  Mr.  Tung  graduated  from 
the  University  of  Liverpool,  England,  where  he  received  his  Bachelor 
of  Science  degree  and  acquired  a  Master’s  degree  in  Mechanical 
Engineering  at  the  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology  in  the 
United  States.  He  has  been  awarded  the  Gold  Bauhinia  Star  by  the 
Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  for 
his  long  and  distinguished  public  services,  particularly  his  dedicated 
support  and  notable  contributions  to  the  development  of  the  logistics 
and maritime industries in the past years. Mr. Tung is an Independent 
Non-Executive  Director  of  U-Ming  Marine  Transport  Corp.,  a  listed 
company.  He  was  formerly  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director 
of  Cathay  Pacific  Airways  Limited,  a  company  listed  in  Hong  Kong, 
and was a member of the Hong Kong Logistics Development Council. 
Mr. Tung is the brother of Mr. Tung Chee Hwa who has an interest in 
a  trust  which  has  an  indirect  interest  in  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  and  Gala 
Way  Company  Inc.  (substantial  shareholders  of  the  Company);  the 
brother-in-law  of  Professor  Roger  King  (a  Non-Executive  Director  of 
the  Company);  and  the  uncle  of  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew  (an 
Executive  Director  of  the  Company)  and  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan 
(an  Executive  Director  and  Chief  Financial  Officer  of  the  Company). 
Mr.  Tung  is  either  a  director,  or  a  director  of  a  company  which  is  a 
corporate director, of certain substantial shareholders of the Company 
which  have  disclosure  interests  in  the  Company  under  the  provisions 
of the Securities and Futures Ordinance.

TUNG Chee Chen

TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew

Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew,  aged  52,  has  been  an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company  since 
2nd  November  2011  and  is  a  member  of  the  Executive  Committee,  the  Inside  Information 
Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company.  He  has  been  a  Director  and  a  member 
of  the  Executive  Committee  of  Orient  Overseas  Container  Line  Limited  (“OOCLL”),  a  wholly-
owned subsidiary of the Company, since March 2006, and the Chief Executive Officer and Senior 
Managing Director of OOCLL since 1st July 2012. He is also a director of various subsidiaries of 
the  Company.  Between  1993  and  1998,  he  has  served  the  Group  in  various  capacities  including 
Director  of  Reefer  Trade  of  OOCLL.  The  last  position  Mr.  Tung  held  in  Hong  Kong  Dragon 
Airlines Limited prior to joining OOCLL in 2006 was the Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Tung holds 
a  Bachelor  degree  from  Princeton  University  and  a  Master  of  Business  Administration  degree 
from  Stanford  University  in  the  USA.  Mr.  Tung  is  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of 
Cathay  Pacific  Airways  Limited  (a  company  listed  in  Hong  Kong)  and  Standard  Chartered  Bank 
(Hong  Kong)  Limited.  He  is  currently  a  member  of  the  Executive  Committee  of  Hong  Kong 
Shipowners Association, a member of the Hong Kong Logistics Development Council, a member 
of the Hong Kong Maritime and Port Board and Chairman of the Maritime and Port Development 
Committee, and was the Vice-Chairman of the International Chamber of Commerce Commission 
for  Transport  &  Logistics.  Mr.  Tung  is  the  son  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa  who  has  an  interest  in  a 
trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala Way Company Inc. (substantial 
shareholders  of  the  Company),  and  is  the  brother  of  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan  (an  Executive 
Director and Chief Financial Officer of the Company). He is the nephew of Mr. Tung Chee Chen 
(the Chairman, President and Chief  Executive Officer of  the Company) who  has  an interest in a 
trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala Way Company Inc. (substantial 
shareholders  of  the  Company),  and  Professor  Roger  King  (a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the 
Company). Mr. Tung is a director of certain substantial shareholders of the Company which have 
disclosure interests in the Company under the provisions of the Securities and Futures Ordinance.

50

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
Board of Directors

Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan,  aged  49,  has  been  an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company  since  1st 

May  2005,  and  has  been  re-designated  from  the  Acting  Chief  Financial  Officer  to  the  Chief 

Financial Officer of the Company since 1st January 2016. Mr. Tung is a member of the Executive 

Committee,  the  Compliance  Committee,  the  Inside  Information  Committee  and  the  Risk 

Committee  of  the  Company.  Mr.  Tung  has  been  with  the  Group  in  various  capacities  for  twenty 

four  years  and  is  a  Director  of  various  subsidiaries  of  the  Company.  Mr.  Tung  graduated  from 

Princeton University, Politics Department with a Bachelor of Arts degree. Mr. Tung is a member 

of the Hong Kong Economic Development Commission, a board member of Hong Kong Maritime 

Museum Limited, an executive committee member of the International Association of Dry Cargo 

Shipowners  (Intercargo),  a  member  of  the  Maritime  Leasing  Working  Group  under  the  New 

Business  Committee  of  Financial  Services  Development  Council,  a  director  of  The  Steamship 

Mutual  Underwriting  Association  Limited,  and  a  non-executive  director  of  both  The  Steamship 

Mutual  Underwriting  Association  (Bermuda)  Limited  and  The  Steamship  Mutual  Underwriting 

Association (Reinsurance) Limited. He did not hold directorships in any other public companies 

listed  in  Hong  Kong  and  overseas  in  the  last  three  years.  Mr.  Tung  is  the  son  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee 

Hwa who has an interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala 

Way  Company  Inc.  (substantial  shareholders  of  the  Company),  and  is  the  brother  of  Mr.  Tung 
Lieh  Cheung  Andrew  (an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company).  He  is  the  nephew  of  Mr.  Tung 
Chee  Chen  (the  Chairman,  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the  Company)  who  has  an 

interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala Way Company Inc. 

(substantial shareholders of the Company), and Professor Roger King (a Non-Executive Director 

of the Company).

TUNG Lieh Sing Alan

Professor Roger King, aged 76, has been a Non-Executive Director of  the Company since March 

2000 and was an Executive Director of the Company from 1992. He is a member of  the  Finance 

Committee,  the  Share  Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company.  He  was  a  Director 
of Orient Overseas (Holdings) Limited (“OOHL”) from 1983 to 1992 and the Managing Director 
and  Chief  Operating  Officer  of  OOHL  from  1985  to  1987.  Professor  King  is  a  graduate  of  the 

University of Michigan, BSEE; New York University, MSEE; Harvard Business School, AMP; and 
The  Hong  Kong  University  of  Science  and  Technology  (“HKUST”),  PhD  in  Finance.  He  is  the 
Honorary Consul of the Republic of Latvia in Hong Kong, and an Adjunct Professor of Finance, 

Director of Tanoto Center for Asian Family Business and Entrepreneurship Studies and Director 

of  Thompson  Center  for  Business  Case  Studies  at  HKUST.  Professor  King  was  an  Independent 

Non-Executive  Director  of  Sincere  Watch  (Hong  Kong)  Limited  (listed  on  the  Hong  Kong  Stock 

Exchange),  a  member  of  the  Supervisory  Board  of  both  TNT  Express  N.V.  and  TNT  N.V.  (both 
are  listed  on  the  Amsterdam  Stock  Exchange),  Chairman  and  founder  of  System-Pro  Computers 
Limited,  one  of  the  largest  personal  computer  reseller  in  Hong  Kong,  Chairman  of  Pacific 
Coffee Limited and a member of the Standing Committee of Zhejiang Province People’s Political 
Consultative  Conference.  He  also  worked  in  computer  research  and  management  consultancy  at 

Bell Telephone Laboratories. Professor King is the brother-in-law of Mr. Tung Chee Hwa who has 

an interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala Way Company 

Inc.  (substantial  shareholders  of  the  Company),  and  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  (the  Chairman, 

President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company) who has an interest in a trust which has 

an  indirect  interest  in  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  and  Gala  Way  Company  Inc.  (substantial  shareholders 

of the Company), and the uncle of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew (an Executive Director of the 
Company) and Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan (an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer of the 

Company).

Professor Roger KING

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

51

Board of Directors

Mr.  Simon  Murray,  CBE,  aged  76,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the 
Company  since  1992  and  was  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  Orient  Overseas  (Holdings)  Limited 
from 1989 until 1992. He serves as a member on the Audit Committee of the Company. He is the 
Non-Executive  Chairman  of  General  Enterprise  Management  Services  Limited,  an  Independent 
Non-Executive Director of Cheung Kong Property Holdings Limited, Wing Tai Properties Limited 
(formerly  known  as  USI  Holdings  Limited)  and  IRC  Limited;  and  a  Non-Executive  Director  of 
China  LNG  Group  Limited  and  Greenheart  Group  Limited,  all  of  which  are  companies  listed 
in  Hong  Kong.  Mr.  Murray  is  also  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  Spring  Asset 
Management  Limited,  manager  of  Spring  Real  Estate  Investment  Trust  which  is  listed  in  Hong 
Kong; and a Non-Executive Director of Compagnie Financière Richemont SA, a company listed in 
Switzerland.  Mr.  Murray  was  formerly  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  Cheung  Kong 
(Holdings)  Limited,  a  company  previously  listed  in  Hong  Kong  until  withdrawal  of  its  listing  on 
18th  March  2015;  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  CK  Hutchison  Holdings  Limited, 
a  company  listed  in  Hong  Kong;  and  the  Vice  Chairman  and  an  Independent  Non-Executive 
Director of Essar Energy Plc, a company listed in the United Kingdom; and the Chairman and an 
Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  Gulf  Keystone  Petroleum  Ltd.,  a  company  listed  in  the 
United Kingdom. Mr. Murray is a member of the Former Directors Committee of The Community 
Chest  of  Hong  Kong  and  has  been  involved  in  a  number  of  other  charitable  organisations, 
including Save The Children Fund and The China Coast Community Association.

Simon MURRAY

Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  aged  69,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the 
Company  since  2nd  January  2015.  He  is  the  chairman  of  the  Remuneration  Committee  and 
a  member  of  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Nomination  Committee,  the  Finance  Committee,  the 
Share Committee and the Risk Committee of the Company. He was an Executive Director of the 
Company from 1st December 2003 to 30th June 2012, a Non-Executive Director of the Company 
from 1st July 2012 to 1st January 2015 and a consultant of the Company from 1st July 2012 to 31st 
December  2014.  Mr.  Chow  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Science  degree  in  Chemistry  and  Physics  from 
the  University  of  Hong  Kong  and  a  Master  of  Business  Administration  degree  from  the  Chinese 
University  of  Hong  Kong.  He  did  not  hold  directorships  in  any  other  public  companies  listed  in 
Hong Kong and overseas in the last three years.

CHOW Philip Yiu Wah

Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard, aged 64, has been an Independent Non-Executive Director of 
the  Company  since  December  2003.  He  is  the  chairman  of  the  Audit  Committee  and  a  member 
of the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee of the Company. He graduated 
from University of Chicago with Bachelor’s, Master’s and Ph.D. degrees in Economics and is the 
Chair of Economics at The University of Hong Kong. He has been active in advancing economic 
research  on  policy  issues  in  Hong  Kong  and  China.  He  was  awarded  the  Silver  Bauhinia  Star  in 
1999 by the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for his contributions in 
education, housing, industry and technology development. He was appointed Justice of the Peace 
in July 2000. Professor Wong is currently an Independent Non-Executive Director of three other 
listed companies in Hong Kong, namely Great Eagle Holdings Limited, Pacific Century Premium 
Developments  Limited  and  Sun  Hung  Kai  Properties  Limited.  He  was  formerly  an  Independent 
Non-Executive  Director  of  CK  Life  Sciences  Int’l.,  (Holdings)  Inc.,  a  company  listed  in  Hong 
Kong, and Link Asset Management Limited, the manager of Link Real Estate Investment Trust, a 
unit trust listed in Hong Kong.

52

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Professor WONG Yue Chim 
Richard

Board of Directors

Mr.  Cheng  Wai  Sun  Edward,  aged  61,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of 

the  Company  since  19th  March  2009.  He  serves  as  a  member  on  the  Audit  Committee  of  the 
Company.  Mr.  Cheng  graduated  from  Cornell  University  with  a  Bachelor’s  degree  in  Political 
Science  and  Economics,  and  Oxford  University  with  a  Bachelor’s  degree  in  Jurisprudence  and  a 
Master’s  degree.  He  was  qualified  as  a  solicitor  in  England  and  Wales  as  well  as  in  Hong  Kong. 
He is a Justice of the Peace and has been awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star by the Government of 
the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  (“HKSAR”).  Mr.  Cheng  is  an  Executive  Director, 
Chief  Executive  and  Deputy  Chairman  of  Wing  Tai  Properties  Limited,  a  company  listed  in 

Hong Kong and also an Independent Non-Executive Director of Standard Chartered Bank (Hong 

Kong)  Limited.  He  was  appointed  as  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Securities  and  Futures 

Commission  with  effect  from  1st  January  2017.  Mr.  Cheng  was  an  Independent  Non-Executive 

Director of Television Broadcasts Limited, a company listed in Hong Kong. Mr. Cheng has many 

years  of  public  service  experience  in  urban  renewal,  housing,  finance,  corruption  prevention, 

technology  and  education.  He  is  a  member  of  the  board  of  The  Airport  Authority  Hong  Kong 

and  a  member  of  the  Commission  on  Strategic  Development  of  the  Government  of  the  HKSAR. 

Mr. Cheng was a member and the Chairman of the University Grants Committee, the Chairman 

of  the  Urban  Renewal  Authority  and  member  of  the  Advisory  Committee  on  Corruption  of  the 

Independent Commission Against Corruption. He has also previously served on the Government 
of  the  HKSAR’s  Steering  Committee  on  Innovation  &  Technology,  the  Council  of  the  Education 
University of Hong Kong (formerly known as the Hong Kong Institute of Education), the Council 

of  the  City  University  of  Hong  Kong,  the  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Polytechnic  University,  the 

Executive Committee of the Hong Kong Housing Society, the Council of the Hong Kong Institute 
of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Futures Commission’s Takeovers and Mergers 
Panel  and  the  Takeovers  Appeal  Committee,  and  was  a  part-time  member  of  the  Central  Policy 

Unit.

CHENG Wai Sun Edward

Mr.  Kwok  King  Man  Clement, Chevalier de la Légion d’Honneur,  aged  57,  has  been  an 
Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  and  a  member  of  the  Audit  Committee 

of  the  Company  since  2nd  July  2015.  Mr.  Kwok  holds  a  bachelor  of  Science  in  Economics  from 

the  London  School  of  Economics.  He  is  a  member  of  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  in 

England and Wales and the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Mr. Kwok is the 

Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of The Hongkong and Shanghai Hotels, Limited, 

a  company  listed  in  Hong  Kong.  His  career  began  with  Price  Waterhouse  and  Barclays  de  Zoete 

Wedd in the United Kingdom, following which he returned to Hong Kong in 1986 to work with 

Schroders Asia where he was appointed as Head of Corporate Finance in 1991. From 1996 to 2002, 

Mr.  Kwok  served  as  Finance  Director  of  MTR  Corporation.  Mr.  Kwok  is  a  former  Independent 

Non-Executive  Director  of  Swire  Pacific  Limited,  a  company  listed  in  Hong  Kong.  Mr.  Kwok  is 

a Fellow of The Hong Kong Management Association, a Council Member of the World Travel & 

Tourism Council, a Board Member of the Faculty of Business and Economics of The University of 

Hong Kong and an Honorary Adviser to the Financial Reporting Council. Over his long career in 

Hong Kong, he has served on the Stock Exchange Listing Committee, the Takeovers and Mergers 

Panel,  the  Securities  and  Futures  Appeals  Tribunal,  the  Hang  Seng  Index  Advisory  Committee 

and the Harbourfront Commission, as well as the Interpretations Committee of the International 

Accounting Standards Board in London.

KWOK King Man Clement

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

53

Senior Management

Senior Management

Michael Fitzgerald

Raymond Fung

Mr.  Fitzgerald,  aged  43,  joined  the  group  in  September  2014  as 
Group  Finance  Director  and  has  been  the  Group  Deputy  Chief 
Financial  Officer  since  December  2015.    He  was  appointed 
a  member  of  the  OOCL  Executive  Committee  in  December 
2014.  Mr.  Fitzgerald  holds  the  degrees  of  BA  and  MA  from  the 
University of Oxford, and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants  in  England  and  Wales.    Mr.  Fitzgerald  started  his 
career at KPMG in London in August 1995, and having qualified 
as  a  Chartered  Accountant,  moved  to  the  Structured  Finance 
division  of  Sociètè  Gènèrale  in  January  1999,  where  he  enjoyed 
an almost 16-year career, holding various posts in London, Hong 
Kong and Paris.

Mr. Fung, aged 58, has been the Director of Trades since January 
2016,  Director  of  Intra-Asia  Trade  until  2015.  He  was  appointed 
a  member  of  the  OOCL  Executive  Committee  since  November 
2015.    Mr.  Fung  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Business  Administration 
General  Business  Management  from  the  Chinese  University  of 
Hong  Kong.    Mr.  Fung  joined  the  Group  in  1983  and  has  served 
the  Group  in  various  capacities  for  33  years,  including  serving 
as  General  Manager  of  Operations,  Managing  Director  of  OOCL 
(UAE), Director of Australia Trade, General Manager of Corporate 
Methods and Tools.  

Teddy Fung

Lammy Lee

Mr. Fung, aged 55, has been the Director of Regions Management 
since  January  2016  and  the  Director  of  Corporate  Operation 
since September 2013. He was appointed a member of the OOCL 
Executive  Committee  since  November  2015.    Mr.  Fung  holds  a 
Bachelor  of  Social  Science  in  Economics  and  a  Master  of  Arts  in 
Transport  Studies  from  the  University  of  Hong  Kong.    Mr.  Fung 
joined  the  Group  in  1994  and  has  served  the  Group  in  various 
capacities  for  22  years,  including  serving  as  General  Manager 
of  OOCL  South  China  sub-region,  Director  of  Reefer  Trade, 
Managing Director of OOCL Hong Kong Branch.  

Ms.  Lee,  aged  55,  has  been  the  Company  Secretary  and  Group 
Legal  Advisor  of  OOIL  since  February  1997  and  Compliance 
Officer  of  OOIL  since  June  2004.  She  was  appointed  a  Director 
of  OOCL  and  a  member  of  the  OOCL  Executive  Committee 
since  April  2011.  Ms.  Lee  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Laws  from  Queen 
Mary  College,  University  of  London,  a  Barrister  and  member  of 
Lincoln’s  Inn  and  admitted  as  an  advocate  and  solicitor  of  the 
High Court of Malaya. Ms. Lee joined the Group in 1988 and has 
served the Group in various capacities for 28 years.

54

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
Senior Management

Stephen Ng

Steve Siu

Mr. Ng, aged 58, has been the Director of Trades since July 2012, 
Director of Corporate Planning until June 2012 and a Director of 
OOCL since August 2010. He holds a Bachelor of Social Sciences 
from  the  University  of  Hong  Kong  and  a  Master  of  Business 
Administration  from  the  Chinese  University  of  Hong  Kong.  Mr. 
Ng joined the Group in 1987 and has served the Group in various 
capacities  for  29  years.  Before  being  transferred  back  to  Hong 
Kong  in  2010,  he  worked  in  California  for  seven  years  as  Head 
of  Trans-Pacific  Trade.    He  is  also  the  official  spokesperson  for 
OOCL.

Mr.  Siu,  aged  59,  has  been  the  Chief  Information  Officer  and  a 
Director  of  OOCL  since  November  2006  and  Chief  Executive 
Officer  of  CargoSmart  since  January  2002.  He  holds  a  Bachelor 
of  Science  and  a  Master  of  Science  from  the  University  of  Essex, 
UK and a Master of Business Administration jointly organised by 
the  Northwestern  University  and  The  Hong  Kong  University  of 
Science and Technology. Mr. Siu joined the Group in 1987 and has 
served the Group in various capacities for 29 years.

Erxin Yao

Kenny Ye

Mr.  Yao,  aged  59,  has  been  a  Director  of  OOCL  since  January 
2010  and  a  Director  of  Corporate  Planning  and  Corporation 
Administration  since  January  2013.  He  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Arts 
from  Toronto/Fudan  University  joint  program  and  a  Master  of 
International  Affairs  from  Columbia  University.  Mr.  Yao  joined 
the Group in 1993 and has served the Group in various capacities 
for  23  years,  including  serving  as  Executive  Vice-President  and 
Head  of  Corporate  Services  of  OOCL  Logistics  in  Hong  Kong, 
Managing  Director  of  Orient  Overseas  Container  Line  (China) 
Co., Ltd. and OOCL Logistics (China) Limited based in Shanghai 
and President of OOCL (USA) Inc.

Mr.  Ye,  aged  53,  has  been  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  OOCL 
Logistics and a member of the OOCL Executive Committee since 
November  2015.  He  holds  a  Diploma  of  Accounting  in  Lixin 
Accounting  Institute  and  a  Master  of  Business  Administration 
from Oklahoma City University.  Mr. Ye joined the Group in 1994 
and has served the Group in various capacities for 22 years. Since 
he was transferred from OOCL Shanghai to OOCL Hong Kong in 
2004, he has served as a Director of Asia-Europe Trade, a Director 
of  Intra-Asia  Trade  and  the  Chief  Operating  Officer  of  OOCL 
Logistics.  

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

55

Financial Calendar

Financial Calendar

Announcement of results for the half year ended 30th June 2016

8th August 2016

Despatch of 2016 Interim Report to shareholders

2nd September 2016

Announcement of results for the year ended 31st December 2016

13th March 2017

Despatch of 2016 Annual Report to shareholders

5th April 2017

Closure of the Register of Members 
(to ascertain the shareholders eligible to attend and 
vote at the Annual General Meeting)

21st April 2017 to
27th April 2017
(Both days inclusive)

2016 Annual General Meeting

27th April 2017

56

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
Shareholder Information

Shareholder Information

ORDINARY SHARES

Issued shares
Nominal value per share
Board lot

625,793,297 shares (as at 31st December 2016)
US$0.10
500 shares

ANNUAL REPORT

This annual report is available in both English and Chinese.

Shareholders can obtain copies by writing to:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited
17M Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong

If you are not a shareholder, please write to:
Orient Overseas (International) Limited
33rd Floor, Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road
Wanchai, Hong Kong
Attention: Company Secretary

This annual report is also available at our website at http://www.ooilgroup.com.

SHAREHOLDER SERVICES

Any  matter  relating  to  your  shareholding,  including  transfer  of  shares,  change  of  name  or  address,  and  loss  of  share  certificates 
should be addressed in writing to:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited
17M Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong
Telephone: (852) 2862 8555

Facsimile: (852) 2865 0990

SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES

Any matter relating to shareholders’ rights should be addressed in writing to:

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
33rd Floor, Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road
Wanchai, Hong Kong
Attention: Company Secretary

Our enquiry hotline is operational during normal office hours:

Telephone: (852) 2833 3888

Facsimile: (852) 2531 8147

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

57

 
Shareholder Information

SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION

Ordinary shareholder information as at 31st December 2016:

Type of shareholders

Type of shareholders

Corporate
Individual

Distribution of shareholdings

Size of shareholdings

1 – 10,000
10,001 – 100,000
100,001 – 1,000,000
1,000,001 or above

Shareholders

Shares of US$0.10 each

Number

Percentage

Number

Percentage

23
930

953

2.4134%
97.5866%

620,581,422
5,211,875

100.00%

625,793,297

99.1672%
0.8328%

100.00%

Shareholders

Shares of US$0.10 each

Number

Percentage

Number

Percentage

892
55
2
4

953

93.5992%
5.7712%
0.2099%
0.4197%

1,263,512
1,744,652
1,112,731
621,672,402

100.00%

625,793,297

0.2019%
0.2788%
0.1778%
99.3415%

100.00%

Ten Largest Ordinary Shareholders

At  31st  December  2016,  the  interests  of  the  ten  largest  ordinary  shareholders  of  the  Company,  as  recorded  in  the  Company’s 
principal register and Hong Kong branch register of members, were as follows:

Name of ordinary shareholders

Fortune Crest Inc.
HKSCC Nominees Limited
Gala Way Company Inc.
Mok Kwun Cheung
Chang Tsann Rong Ernest
So Tung Lam
Leung Man Kit Albo
Ho Fuk Chuen
Lui Siu Sun
Po Leung Kuk

Number of 
ordinary shares held

Percentage

350,722,656
190,463,203
79,227,432
1,259,111
612,731
500,000
100,000
93,060
72,600
70,500

56.04%
30.44%
12.66%
0.20%
0.10%
0.08%
0.02%
0.01%
0.01%
0.01%

58

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Corporate Governance Report

Corporate Governance Report

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE

The  Board  of  Directors  (the  “Board”)  and  the  management  of  the  Company  are  committed  to  maintaining  high  standards  of 
corporate  governance  and  the  Company  considers  that  effective  corporate  governance  makes  an  important  contribution  to 
corporate success and to the enhancement of shareholder value.

The Company has adopted its own corporate governance code (the “CG Code”), which in addition to applying the principles as set 
out in the Corporate Governance Code and Corporate Governance Report (the “SEHK Code”) contained in Appendix 14 to the 
Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”), also incorporates 
and conforms to local and international best practices. The CG Code sets out the corporate governance principles applied by the 
Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) and is constantly reviewed to ensure transparency, accountability and independence.

Throughout the year 2016, the Company complied with the SEHK Code, save for the following:

•  Code Provision

Code provision

Deviation

Considered reason for deviation

Separation  of  the  roles 
of  chairman  and  chief 
executive  officer  of  a 
listed issuer

Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  currently 
a s s u m e s  t h e  rol e s  of  b ot h 
Chairman  and  Chief  Executive 
Officer of the Company.

The  executive  members  of  the  Board  currently  consist 
of chief executive officer of the principal division of the 
Group  and  there  is  an  effective  separation  of  the  roles 
between the chief executive of its principal division and 
the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. The Board 
considers  that  further  separation  of  the  roles  of  the 
Chief  Executive  Officer  and  Chairman  would  represent 
duplication and is not necessary for the time being.

•  Recommended Best Practices

• 
• 

the remuneration of senior management is disclosed in bands
operational results, instead of financial results, are announced and published quarterly

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

59

 
Corporate Governance Report

We have set out in this report our guiding principles and rationale for implementation of the CG Code as well as the status of the 
Company’s compliance with Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules during the year 2016:

A.  BOARD OF DIRECTORS

1.  Board Composition

The  Board  currently  comprises  of  three  Executive  Directors,  one  Non-Executive  Director  and  five  Independent  Non-
Executive Directors.

Executive Directors

Mr. Tung Chee Chen (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan (Chief Financial Officer)

Non-Executive Director

Professor Roger King

Independent Non-Executive Directors

Mr. Simon Murray
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard
Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward
Mr. Kwok King Man Clement

The  biographical  details  of  the  Directors  and  the  relevant  relationships  between  them  are  set  out  on  the  Company’s 
website at http://www.ooilgroup.com and on pages 50 to 53 of this annual report.

The Directors have formal letters of appointment setting out the key terms and conditions of their appointment, and are 
for a fixed term of three years and subject to re-election by rotation at least once every three years.

The  Directors  have  extensive  corporate  and  strategic  planning  experience  and  industry  knowledge.  All  Independent 
Non-Executive Directors are financially independent from the Group bringing independent and diversified experience, 
competencies, skills and judgment to the Group’s strategy and policies through their informed contributions. The Board 
considers that there is a reasonable balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and has provided adequate 
checks and balances for safeguarding the interests of the shareholders and the Group.

The  Company  has  received  from  each  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  a  written  annual  confirmation  of  their 
independence and considers that all the Independent Non-Executive Directors have satisfied their independence to the 
Group up to the date of this annual report.

During  the  year  2016,  the  Board  complied  with  the  Listing  Rules’  requirement  in  having  at  least  three  Independent 
Non-Executive  Directors  representing  at  least  one-third  of  the  Board,  including  one  with  appropriate  professional 
qualifications or accounting or related financial management expertise.

Among the members of the Board, Professor Roger King (Non-Executive Director of the Company) is the brother-in-
law of Mr. Tung Chee Chen (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company). Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung 
Andrew (Executive Director of the Company) is the brother of Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan (Executive Director and Chief 
Financial  Officer  of  the  Company),  and  both  of  them  are  the  nephews  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  and  Professor  Roger 
King.

Directors’ and Officers’ Liabilities Insurance

Since  1992,  the  Company  has  arranged  insurance  cover  for  directors’  and  officers’  liabilities  including  cover  for 
Directors, officers and senior management of the Group arising out of corporate activities.

60

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Corporate Governance Report

2.  Board and Management Responsibilities

The  Board  is  responsible  for  the  overall  strategic  direction  and  management  of  the  business  and  affairs  of  the  Group 
with  the  objective  of  enhancing  shareholder  value  and  presenting  a  balanced,  clear  and  understandable  assessment  of 
the Company’s performance, position and prospects in the annual and interim reports, and announcements and other 
financial  disclosures  as  required  under  the  Listing  Rules,  and  reports  to  regulators  any  information  required  to  be 
disclosed pursuant to statutory requirements.

The Board has a fiduciary duty and statutory responsibility towards the Company and the Group. Other responsibilities 
include formulation of the Group’s overall strategies and policies, setting of corporate and management targets and key 
operational initiatives, setting of policies on risk management pursuant to the Group’s strategic objectives, monitoring 
and  control  of  operational  and  financial  performance,  and  approval  of  budgets  and  major  capital  expenditures,  major 
investments,  material  acquisitions  and  disposals  of  assets,  corporate  or  financial  restructuring,  significant  operational, 
financial and management matters.

The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business of the Group to the management of the principal division 
under the leadership and supervision of the Chief Executive Officer, who will implement and report to the Board on the 
adoption of the Company’s strategies, policies and objectives by the principal division of the Group.

The Board also delegates certain specific responsibilities to nine committees (Executive Committee, Audit Committee, 
Remuneration  Committee,  Nomination  Committee,  Risk  Committee,  Compliance  Committee,  Finance  Committee, 
Share Committee and Inside Information Committee). The composition and functions of each committee are described 
below.  These  committees  have  specific  functions  and  authority  to  examine  issues  and  report  to  the  Board  with  their 
recommendations (if appropriate). The final decision rests with the Board, unless otherwise provided for in the terms of 
reference of the relevant committees.

The  Company  Secretary  provides  the  Directors  with  updates  on  developments  regarding  the  Listing  Rules  and  other 
applicable  regulatory  requirements.  Any  Director  may  request  the  Company  Secretary  to  organise  independent 
professional  advice  at  the  expense  of  the  Company  to  assist  the  Directors  to  effectively  discharge  their  duties  to  the 
Company. No such independent professional advice was requested by any Director in year 2016.

3.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Mr. Tung Chee Chen is the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company with the respective roles set out 
in writing.

a.  The  primary  role  of  the  Chairman  is  to  provide  leadership  to  the  Board  and  to  ensure  that  the  Board  functions 

effectively in the discharge of its responsibilities. His duties include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

ensure that Directors are briefed and have received timely, accurate, complete and clear information on issues 
to be discussed at Board meetings;

ensure  that  the  Board  works  effectively  and  performs  its  responsibilities,  and  that  all  key  and  appropriate 
issues  are  discussed  in  a  timely  manner  and  that  good  corporate  governance  practices  and  procedures  are 
established, implemented and maintained;

approve  the  agenda  drawn  up  by  the  Company  Secretary  for  each  Board  meeting  taking  into  account  any 
matter proposed by other Directors for inclusion in the agenda;

promote a culture of openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors 
(including  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors)  in  particular  and  ensuring  constructive  relations  between 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors; and encourage Directors with different views to voice their concerns, 
allow sufficient time for discussion of issues and ensure that Board decisions fairly reflect Board consensus;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

61

Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

hold  meetings  at  least  annually  with  the  Non-Executive  Directors  (including  Independent  Non-Executive 
Directors) without the presence of the other Executive Directors;

ensure effective communication with shareholders and that their views are communicated to the Board; and 
to

attend  the  annual  general  meetings  and  invite  the  chairmen  of  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration 
Committee, the Nomination Committee and the other Board committees, or in the absence of the chairman 
of the respective Board committees, other members of the related Board committees to be available to answer 
questions at the annual general meetings.

In case of an equality of votes at any Board meeting, the Chairman shall be entitled to a second or casting vote.

b.  The primary role of the Chief Executive Officer is to be responsible for the day-to-day management and operation 

of the Company and Group business. His duties include to:

– 

provide leadership and supervise the effective management of the principal division of the Group;

–  monitor and control the operational and financial performance of the principal division of the Group;

– 

– 

– 

implement and report to the Board on the adoption of the Company’s strategies, policies and objectives by the 
principal division of the Group;

provide  information  to  the  Board  (as  necessary)  to  enable  the  Board  to  monitor  the  performance  of 
management and operation of the principal division of the Group; and to

set  up  programmes  for  management  development  and  succession  planning  for  the  principal  division  of  the 
Group.

4.  Board Meetings

Regular Board meetings are scheduled one year in advance to maximise the attendance of Directors. The Board meets at 
least four times each year and has a formal schedule of matters referred to it for consideration and decision. Additional 
meetings may be convened as and when necessary. Notice of at least fourteen days is served for regular Board meetings 
and reasonable notice is given for all other Board meetings. Directors are consulted and provided with an opportunity 
to include matters to the agenda for discussion at the Board meetings. The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in 
preparing the agenda for each Board meeting and to ensure that applicable rules and regulations regarding the meetings 
are observed. The final agenda together with the Board papers are distributed to the Directors at least three days before 
the Board meetings.

If a Director (who may also be a substantial shareholder of the Company) has a conflict of interest in any matter to be 
considered by the Board, the Company Secretary shall ensure that such matter is dealt with by a physical Board meeting 
rather than a written resolution. If considered appropriate, the Board meeting shall be attended by Independent Non-
Executive Directors who have no material interests in the matter. The affected Director shall abstain from voting on any 
such resolution in which they or any of their associates have a material interest and shall not be counted in the quorum 
present at that Board meeting.

The Company Secretary shall ensure that the procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed. Copies of all 
signed minutes of the Board are sent to the Directors for their records.

5.  Professional Development

In addition to Directors’ attendance at meetings and review of papers and circulars sent by the Company, the Directors 
have participated in continuous professional development programme to develop and refresh their knowledge and skills 
to help ensure that their contribution to the Board remains informed and relevant.

62

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Corporate Governance Report

The programme for continuous professional development of Directors takes various forms including:

• 

the  Company  briefing  Directors  on  important  issues  which  have  a  material  impact  on  the  Company’s  business, 
financial  and  operational  matters  including  major  investments,  corporate  governance  practices  and  funding 
strategy;

•  Directors meeting senior management of the Group on issues specific to the Group’s business;

•  Directors reading materials and updates on the regulatory changes followed by briefings by the Company Secretary 

of the Company, if requested; and

•  Directors  attending  external  seminars  on  business,  financial,  governance,  regulatory  and  other  issues  relevant  to 

the Group’s activities.

Below is the record of participation in continuous professional development programme by the current Directors of the 
Company  in  year  2016  relevant  to  the  directors’  duties  and  responsibilities,  regulatory  updates  and  business,  financial 
and operational matters of the Group.

Executive Directors
Mr. Tung Chee Chen
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan

Non-Executive Director
Professor Roger King

Independent Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Simon Murray
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard
Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward
Mr. Kwok King Man Clement

Reading materials

Attending external 
seminars/briefings

✓
✓
✓

✓

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

✓

✓

✓
✓
✓

Note: Ms. Lammy Lee, the Company Secretary of the Company, undertook no less than fifteen hours of professional training in year 2016 to 

update her skills and knowledge.

6.  Supply of and Access to Information

All  Directors  have  access  to  the  Board’s  and  the  Committees’  papers  and  other  materials  either  from  the  Company 
Secretary or the Chairman so that they are able to make informed decisions on matters placed before them.

7.  Nomination of Directors

The  Nomination  Committee  was  established  in  2012.  The  Committee  reviews  the  structure,  size  and  composition 
(including  the  skills,  knowledge,  experience  and  from  diversity  perspective)  of  the  Board  regularly  and  makes 
recommendation  to  the  Board.  The  Company  follows  a  formal,  considered  and  transparent  procedure  for  the 
appointment  of  new  Directors  to  the  Board.  The  appointment  of  a  new  Director  is  a  collective  decision  of  the  Board, 
taking  into  consideration  the  expertise,  experience,  integrity  and  commitment  of  that  appointee  to  the  principal 
division, the Company and the Group.

Each  Director  shall,  after  his  appointment  and  semi-annually  thereafter,  disclose  to  the  Board  the  number  and  nature 
of  offices  held  by  such  Director  in  other  public  companies  and  organisations  and  any  other  significant  commitments, 
together with the identity of the public companies and organisations and an indication of time involved.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

63

Corporate Governance Report

At the annual general meeting of the Company held on 29th April 2016 (the “2015 AGM”), Mr. Tung Chee Chen, Mr. 
Tung Lieh Sing Alan, Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard and Mr. Kwok King Man Clement retired and were re-elected 
as Directors of the Company.

8.  Board Committees

In  addition  to  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee  and  the  Nomination  Committee  established  in 
compliance with the Listing Rules, the other committees comprise of the Executive Committee, the Finance Committee, 
the  Share  Committee,  the  Compliance  Committee,  the  Inside  Information  Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee. 
Each  committee  has  its  own  well  defined  scope  of  duties  and  terms  of  reference.  The  terms  of  reference  of  the  Audit 
Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee are available on the Company’s website and 
the HKEXnews website. The Company Secretary shall also make available the terms of reference of all the committees to 
any shareholder upon receipt of a written request from such shareholder. The members of a committee are empowered 
to  make  decisions  on  matters  within  the  terms  of  reference  of  such  committee.  Copies  of  all  signed  minutes  of  the 
committees are sent to the members of the respective committees and the Directors of the Company for their records.

a.  Executive Committee

The Executive Committee was established in 1996. All its members are Executive Directors. It currently comprises 
of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  (chairman  of  the  Executive  Committee),  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew  and  Mr.  Tung 
Lieh Sing Alan, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of the Executive Committee.

The Executive Committee operates as an executive management committee under the direct authority of the Board. 
Its primary duties include to:

– 

formulate strategies and policies and to set corporate and management targets and operational initiatives and 
policies on risk management for the principal division of the Group and plans and operational directions for 
the Group;

–  monitor,  control  and  manage  operational  and  financial  performance  and  business  affairs  of  the  principal 

division of the Group;

– 

– 

– 

– 

review,  discuss  and  approve  (if  appropriate)  (i)  press  announcements,  circulars  and  other  documents 
(including  inside  information  and  financial  information)  required  to  be  disclosed  pursuant  to  the  Listing 
Rules,  regulatory  or  statutory  requirements;  (ii)  submissions  from  the  Compliance  Committee,  the  Finance 
Committee and the Share Committee and, if appropriate, to recommend to the Board for consideration and 
approval;

approve capital expenditure for a specified amount;

liaise  and  consult  with,  advise  and  make  recommendations  to  its  subsidiaries  and  make  such  decisions  with 
regard thereto as the Executive Committee shall in its absolute discretion think fit, and refer such matters as it 
thinks fit to the Board of the Company for consideration, approval and/or ratification, if necessary; and to

report to the Board on its decisions, and any matter in respect of which it considers that action is needed, and 
its recommendations as to the steps to be taken.

b.  Audit Committee

The  Audit  Committee  was  established  in  1992.  All  its  members  are  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors.  It 
currently comprises of Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard (chairman of the Audit Committee), Mr. Simon Murray, 
Mr.  Cheng  Wai  Sun  Edward,  Mr.  Kwok  King  Man  Clement  and  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  with  Mr.  Fung  Yee 
Chung  Vincent,  the  Head  of  Internal  Audit  as  the  secretary  of  the  Audit  Committee,  and  Ms.  Lammy  Lee  as  the 
assistant secretary of the Audit Committee.

64

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Corporate Governance Report

The  Audit  Committee  is  delegated  by  the  Board  with  the  responsibility  to  provide  an  independent  review  and 
supervision of financial reporting and to ensure the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and the adequacy 
of the external and internal audit. To perform its duties, the Audit Committee is provided with sufficient resources 
and  is  supported  by  the  Internal  Audit  Department  to  examine  all  matters  relating  to  the  Group’s  adopted 
accounting principles and practices and to review all material financial, operational and compliance controls. The 
terms of reference of the Audit Committee are posted on the Company’s website.

The primary duties of the Audit Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

recommend  to  the  Board  on  the  appointment,  re-appointment  and  removal  of  the  external  auditor,  and  to 
approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor, and any question of its resignation 
or dismissal;

act as the key representative body overseeing the Company’s relation with the external auditor;

seek from the external auditor, on an annual basis, information about policies and processes for maintaining 
independence  and  monitoring  compliance  with  relevant  requirements,  including  provision  of  non-audit 
services and requirements regarding rotation of audit partners and staff;

discuss  with  the  external  auditor  any  recommendation  arising  from  the  audit,  and  to  review  the  external 
auditor’s  management  letter,  any  material  queries  raised  by  the  external  auditor  to  management  about 
accounting records, financial statements or systems of control and management’s response, and to ensure that 
the Board will provide timely response to the issues raised in the external auditor’s management letter;

establish  and  review  from  time  to  time  the  procedure  to  review  and  monitor  the  external  auditor’s 
independence  and  objectivity,  and  the  effectiveness  of  the  audit  process  in  accordance  with  the  applicable 
standards and the scope of the external auditor, and to discuss and understand the factors considered by the 
external auditor in determining the nature and scope of the audit and reporting obligations before the audit 
commences;

establish and review from time to time the policy relating to hiring of employees or former employees of the 
external auditor and monitor the application of such policy; and to consider whether as a result of such hiring 
there has been any impairment of the auditor’s judgment or independence in respect of the audit;

establish and review from time to time the policy on engaging external auditor to supply non-audit services 
and  to  review  such  services  do  not  impair  the  external  auditor’s  independence  or  objectivity  in  relation  to 
non-audit  services  including  whether  the  skills  and  experience  of  the  external  auditor  make  it  a  suitable 
supplier  of  non-audit  services;  whether  there  are  safeguards  in  place  to  ensure  that  there  is  no  threat  to  the 
objectivity  and  independence  of  the  audit  because  the  external  auditor  provides  non-audit  services;  and 
the  nature  of  non-audit  services,  the  related  fee  levels  and  fee  levels  individually  and  in  total  relative  to  the 
external auditor;

– 

review the Group’s financial and accounting policies and practices;

–  monitor  the  integrity  of  the  Company’s  financial  statements,  annual,  quarterly  (if  prepared  for  publication) 
and interim financial reports and to review any significant financial reporting judgments contained in them, 
with particular focus on changes in accounting policies and practices, major judgmental areas, any significant 
audit adjustments, the going concern assumption and any qualifications, compliance with any applicable legal 
requirements and accounting standards, and compliance with the requirements of the Listing Rules and other 
legal requirements in relation to financial reporting;

– 

consider  any  significant  or  unusual  items  that  are,  or  may  need  to  be,  reflected  in  the  report  and  financial 
statements  and  to  give  due  consideration  to  any  matter  that  has  been  raised  by  the  Financial  Compliance 
Officer  of  the  Company,  the  external  auditor,  the  Head  of  Internal  Audit  or  the  staff  responsible  for  the 
accounting and financial reporting function;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

65

Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review  with  the  Group’s  management,  the  external  auditor  and  the  internal  auditor,  the  adequacy  of  the 
Group’s  policies  and  procedures  regarding  internal  control  system  (including  financial,  operational  and 
compliance  controls)  to  ensure  that  such  system  is  effective  with  audit  trails  to  protect  the  accuracy  and 
integrity  of  financial  data  and  to  pursue  relevant  enquiries  into  matters  having,  or  likely  to  have,  a  material 
effect on the business and financial conditions of the Group. The result of the review is to be reported in the 
Corporate Governance Report of the Company, including a Directors’ statement that they have conducted a 
review of its internal control system;

provide  an  independent  review  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  risk  management  system  including  the  risk 
management framework, policies and processes;

discuss  with  the  management  the  scope  and  quality  of  the  risk  management  and  internal  control  systems 
and  to  ensure  that  management  has  performed  its  duty  to  have  effective  systems  including  the  adequacy  of 
resources, staff qualifications and experience, training programmes and budget and experience of staff of the 
accounting, internal audit and financial reporting functions;

review findings of internal investigation and management’s response of any suspected frauds or irregularities 
or failures of risk management and internal controls or infringements of laws, rules and regulations;

review the scope and effectiveness of the internal audit functions and to review the results of the internal audit 
functions  regularly  with  the  internal  auditor  matters  including  planning  of  the  Audit  Committee  meetings 
and, if required by the internal auditor, the internal audit programme; and to ensure co-ordination between 
the  internal  and  external  auditors  and  that  the  internal  audit  function  is  adequately  resourced  and  has 
appropriate standing within the Company and to review and monitor its effectiveness;

review  the  effectiveness  and  monitor  the  use  of  the  whistleblowing  policy  and  procedures  for  employees  to 
raise  concerns,  in  confidence,  to  the  Audit  Committee  about  improprieties  in  financial  reporting,  internal 
control  and  other  matters;  and  to  ensure  that  proper  arrangements  are  in  place  for  fair  and  independent 
investigation of these improprieties and for appropriate follow-up action;

report to the Board on the matters raised in the SEHK Code; and to

report to the Board, identifying and making recommendations on any matter where action or improvement is 
needed and to consider other topics identified and referred to the Audit Committee by the Board.

Under  the  Group’s  whistleblowing  policy,  employees  may  report  any  concern  regarding  accounting,  internal 
accounting controls and auditing matters to the Audit Committee without fear of dismissal or retaliation, in order 
to  ensure  that  the  Group  complies  with  all  the  applicable  laws  and  regulations,  accounting  standards,  accounting 
controls and audit practices. The Audit Committee will review each complaint and decide on how the investigation 
should be conducted. In year 2016, the Audit Committee received no complaint from employees.

The Audit Committee held two meetings during the year ended 31st December 2016. The following is a summary 
of work performed by the Audit Committee during the year 2016:

(i) 

reviewed and discussed the annual financial statements for 2015 and the interim financial statements for 2016 
with the external auditor and management of the Company, with recommendations to the Board for approval;

(ii)  reviewed the significant audit and accounting issues arising from the external auditor’s statutory audit of the 

2015 annual financial statements and issues arising from the review of the 2016 interim financial statements;

(iii)  reviewed the impact of the new and revised accounting standards on the Company;

(iv)  reviewed the external auditor’s audit strategy and approach;

(v)  reviewed the non-audit services provided by the external auditor in 2015;

66

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Corporate Governance Report

(vi)  met with the external auditor without the presence of the management to discuss issues from the audits and 

any other matters the external auditor might raise;

(vii)  reviewed the Internal Audit Department’s audit objectives and approval of the annual internal audit plan;

(viii) reviewed  the  findings  and  recommendations  of  the  Internal  Audit  Department  on  the  audits  carried  out  on 

the principal activities of the Group during the year 2015;

(ix)  reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems;

(x)  reviewed  the  relevant  sections  in  the  Corporate  Governance  Report  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2015 

concerning the Audit Committee;

(xi)  reviewed the adequacy of the resources, staff qualifications and experience, training programmes and budget 

and experience of staff of the Company’s accounting, internal audit and financial reporting functions;

(xii) reviewed the continuing connected transactions and their annual caps; and

(xiii) reviewed the continuous implementation of the whistleblowing policy.

The minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are prepared by the secretary of the Audit Committee with details of 
all matters considered by the attendees and of decisions reached, including any concern raised by the attendees and 
dissenting views expressed. The final version of the minutes is sent to the attendees for their records. The minutes 
are open for inspection by the Committee members and the Board members.

c.  Remuneration Committee

The Remuneration Committee was established in 2005. A majority of its members are Independent Non-Executive 
Directors.  It  currently  comprises  of  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah  (chairman  of  the  Remuneration  Committee), 
Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  and  Professor  Wong  Yue  Chim  Richard,  with  Ms.  Lammy  Lee  as  the  secretary  of  the 
Remuneration Committee.

The primary duties of the Remuneration Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review  and  recommend  to  the  Board  on  the  Company’s  policy  and  structure  of  the  remuneration  of  the 
Directors  of  the  Company,  senior  management  and  employees  of  the  Group  including  performance-based 
bonus  scheme  on  the  basis  that  they  are  fairly  but  responsibly  rewarded  for  their  individual  contribution  to 
the overall performance of the Company;

establish and review a formal and transparent procedure for developing remuneration policy;

(i)  review  and  approve  the  management’s  remuneration  proposals  with  reference  to  the  Board’s  corporate 
goals  and  objectives;  and  determine  with  delegated  responsibilities  the  remuneration  packages  of  individual 
Executive  Directors  of  the  Company  and  senior  management;  and  (ii)  recommend  to  the  Board  on  the 
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

consult the Chairman of the Board and/or Chief Executive Officer of the Company about their remuneration 
proposals for the other Executive Directors of the Company and senior management;

review and approve compensation payable to the Executive Directors of the Company and senior management 
for any loss or termination of office or appointment to ensure that it is consistent with contractual terms and 
is otherwise fair and not excessive;

review and approve compensation arrangements relating to dismissal or removal of Directors for misconduct 
to ensure that they are consistent with contractual terms and are otherwise reasonable and appropriate;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

67

Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

ensure  that  no  Director  or  any  of  his  associates  or  senior  management  is  involved  in  deciding  his  own 
remuneration; and to

advise the Board any matter relating to the remuneration or reward of the Executive Directors of the Company 
or senior management or employees of the Group.

The  Remuneration  Committee  held  three  meetings  during  the  year  ended  31st  December  2016.  The  works 
performed by the Remuneration Committee during the year 2016 include:

(i) 

reviewed the Company’s policy and remuneration structure for the Directors of the Company, and the senior 
management  and  employees  of  the  Group;  and  engaged  a  consultant  to  review  (i)  current  remuneration 
policies  including  incentive  scheme;  (ii)  current  bonus  policy  to  ensure  that  it  will  continue  to  motivate 
and  reward  staff;  and  (iii)  the  remuneration  for  managerial  and  professional  grades  that  is  competitive  with 
external market;

(ii)  reviewed the procedure for developing remuneration policy;

(iii)  reviewed  the  discretionary  management  bonus  of  the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Company,  and  the  senior 

management and employees of the Group for the year 2015;

(iv)  reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  or  determined  with  delegated  responsibilities,  as  the  case  may  be, 
in accordance with the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, the remuneration packages of the 
Directors of the Company, and the senior management of the Group for the year 2016; and

(v)  reviewed and reported on compliance of recommended best practice under the Listing Rules by the Company 

on disclosure of the remuneration of senior management of the Group in the annual report of the Company.

No Director was involved in determining his own remuneration.

d.  Nomination Committee

The  Nomination  Committee  was  established  in  2012.  A  majority  of  its  members  are  Independent  Non-Executive 
Directors.  It  currently  comprises  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  (chairman  of  the  Nomination  Committee),  Mr.  Chow 
Philip Yiu Wah and Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of the Nomination 
Committee.

The primary duties of the Nomination Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review and make recommendation to the Board on the Company’s policy for nomination of Directors;

establish  and  review  a  formal,  considered  and  transparent  procedures  for  the  appointment  of  new  directors 
and have plans in place for orderly succession for appointments;

review  and  report  annually  on  implementation  of  the  board  diversity  policy  of  the  Company  (the  “Board 
Diversity Policy”), and progress (if relevant);

review  the  structure,  size  and  composition  (including  the  skills,  knowledge,  experience  and  from  diversity 
perspective)  of  the  Board  at  least  annually  and  recommend  on  any  proposed  change  to  the  Board  to 
complement the Company’s corporate strategy;

identify,  nominate  and  recommend  to  the  Board  suitably  qualified  candidate,  based  on  meritocracy  and  the 
Board  Diversity  Policy  appropriate  for  the  Group’s  business  and  specific  needs,  to  become  a  director  of  the 
Company either to fill a casual vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board;

68

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

recommend  to  the  Board  on  the  appointment  or  re-appointment/re-election  of  Directors  and  succession 
planning for Directors to maintain a balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of perspectives of 
the Board;

assess and report to the Board the qualifications of any person proposed by a shareholder of the Company for 
election as a director of the Company to ensure compliance with the nomination policy of the Company and 
the requirements as provided in the Listing Rules are satisfied;

assess the independence of Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

regularly  review  and  report  to  the  Board  the  contribution  required  from  a  Director  of  the  Company  to 
perform his responsibilities and whether he is spending sufficient time performing them; and to

assess performance of the Executive Directors and conduct a regular evaluation of the Board’s performance by 
a member of the Nomination Committee, who is an Independent Non-Executive Director, and report results 
of the evaluation to the Board.

The Nomination Committee held one meeting during the year ended 31st December 2016. The works performed 
by the Nomination Committee during the year 2016 include:

(i) 

reviewed the Company’s policy for nomination of Directors;

(ii)  reviewed procedures for appointment of new Directors and plans for orderly succession;

(iii)  reviewed the implementation of the Board Diversity Policy of the Company;

(iv)  reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board of the Company;

(v)  recommended re-election of the retiring directors at the annual general meeting of the Company held on 29th 

April 2016;

(vi)  assessed independence of the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

(vii)  reviewed the contribution of the Directors of the Company for the year 2015; and

(viii) evaluated performance of the Board and assessed performance of the Executive Directors of the Company by 
a member of the Nomination Committee who is an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company in 
accordance with the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee.

The Board Diversity Policy is summarized as follows:

– 

– 

the  Company  ensures  that  its  Board  has  the  appropriate  balance  of  skills,  experience  and  diversity  of 
perspective of the Board requires to support the execution of its business strategy and in order for the Board 
to be effective;

selection of candidates will be based on a range of perspectives, including but not limited to age, culture and 
educational background, ethnicity, industry experience, skills, knowledge and length of service. The Board’s 
appointment  should  be  based  on  meritocracy  and  diversity  of  perspectives  appropriate  for  the  Group’s 
business and specific needs and the contribution that the selected candidates will bring to the Board; and

– 

the  Nomination  Committee  will  take  into  consideration  of  the  Board  Diversity  Policy  in  identifying  and 
nominating suitably qualified candidates to become members of the Board.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

69

Corporate Governance Report

e.  Risk Committee

The  Risk  Committee  was  established  in  2015  and  currently  comprises  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  (chairman  of  the 
Risk Committee), Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew, Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan, Professor Roger King and Mr. Chow 
Philip Yiu Wah, with Mr. Mok Yun Lee Paul as the secretary of the Risk Committee.

The primary duties of the Risk Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

establish  risk  appetite,  risk  management  strategy,  and  a  strong  and  independent  internal  control  and  review 
systems;

align strategic direction and business objective of the Group with risk appetite;

oversight on adequacy of the Group’s risk management policies, process and system. In pursuing the Group’s 
strategic direction and business objective, aims to optimize risk and return;

identify, assess and manage principal risks to pursue the Group’s strategic and business objective;

provide direction on the importance of risk management and risk management culture;

formulate, implement and review environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) strategies of the Group; and 
to

identify,  assess  and  manage  ESG-related  risks  and  ensure  appropriate  and  effective  ESG  risk  management 
systems are in place.

The Risk Committee held two meetings during the year ended 31st December 2016. The works performed by the 
Risk Committee during the year 2016 include:

(i) 

reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  the  Group’s  risk  appetite,  risk  management  strategies,  risk 
management policies, process and system in pursuit of the Group’s strategic direction and business objectives;

(ii) 

identified, reviewed, assessed and managed principal risks of the Group to pursue the Group’s strategic and 
business objectives;

(iii)  reviewed  and  reported  to  the  Board  the  Company’s  compliance  with  the  SEHK  Code  in  relation  to  the  risk 

management;

(iv)  reviewed and reported to the Board the Company’s compliance with the Listing Rules in relation to the ESG 

related compliance; and

(v)  reviewed and refined the terms of reference of the Risk Committee.

70

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Corporate Governance Report

f.  Compliance Committee

The  Compliance  Committee  was  established  in  2004  and  currently  comprises  of  Ms.  Lammy  Lee  (chairperson 
of  the  Compliance  Committee),  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan,  Mr.  Fung  Yee  Chung  Vincent,  Mr.  Michael  Fitzgerald 
and  Mr.  Lam  Tuen  Pei  Pius  (both  Mr.  Fitzgerald  and  Mr.  Lam  were  appointed  as  members  of  the  Compliance 
Committee on 1st May 2016). The Board has delegated the responsibility for monitoring the corporate governance 
compliance to the Compliance Committee.

The primary duties of the Compliance Committee include to:

– 

review, monitor and provide administrative support on the compliance control of the Group and compliance 
of the following corporate governance functions of the Company:

(a)  on  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  corporate  governance  and  make  recommendations  to  the 

Board;

(b)  on  the  training  and  continuous  professional  development  of  Directors  and  senior  management  of  the 

Group;

(c)  on the Company’s policies and practices on compliance with legal and regulatory requirements;

(d)  on the development of the code of conduct and compliance manuals (if any) applicable to employees of 

the Group and Directors of the Company;

(e)  on the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and the SEHK Code;

(f) 

to report the above items (a) to (e) to the Board regularly; and

– 

– 

(g) 

to  prepare  (i)  the  Corporate  Governance  Report  covering  all  mandatory  disclosure  requirements  as  set 
out in the Listing Rules; and/or (ii) information required to be disclosed by the Compliance Committee 
in  the  Company’s  results  announcements,  the  annual  reports,  the  interim  reports  and  any  other 
documents, pursuant to the Listing Rules;

review and report to the Board regularly the shareholders’ communication policy to ensure its effectiveness; 
and to

ensure the Company is in compliance with the Listing Rules including disclosure and compliance obligations 
for  matters  including  notifiable  transactions,  connected  transactions,  continuing  connected  transactions, 
advance  to  an  entity,  financial  assistance  and  guarantees  to  affiliated  companies  of  the  Company,  loan 
agreements  with  covenants  relating  to  specific  performance  of  the  controlling  shareholder  of  the  Company, 
breach of a loan agreement by the Company, disclosure of financial information pursuant to Appendix 16 to 
the Listing Rules, and general obligations of disclosure under rule 13.09 of the Listing Rules.

The  Compliance  Committee  held  three  meetings  and  passed  resolutions  by  way  of  written  resolution  during 
the  year  ended  31st  December  2016.  The  works  performed  by  the  Compliance  Committee  during  the  year  2016 
include:

(i) 

reviewed and recommended to the Board the changes in the membership of the Compliance Committee;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

71

Corporate Governance Report

(ii)  reviewed  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  corporate  governance  and  made  recommendations  to  the 

Board;

(iii)  reviewed and reported to the Board on the amendments to the Listing Rules in relation to the ESG reporting;

(iv)  reviewed and recommended to the Board the revisions to the Company’s CG Code to align with the up-to-

date SEHK Code;

(v)  reviewed and monitored the training and continuous professional development of Directors of the Company;

(vi)  reviewed  and  monitored  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  compliance  with  legal  and  regulatory 
requirements, particularly on legal, financial and accounting, internal control and audit, risk management and 
ESG related compliance;

(vii)  reviewed and monitored the code of conduct and compliance manuals (if any) applicable to employees of the 

Group and Directors of the Company;

(viii) reviewed the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and the SEHK Code and the disclosure requirements 

in the Corporate Governance Report;

(ix)  reviewed the Company’s compliance with the disclosure requirements in the Sustainability Report;

(x)  reviewed and reported to the Board on the effectiveness of the shareholders’ communication policy; and

(xi)  reviewed and reported to the Board on the notifiable transactions (if any), continuing connected transactions 
and the significant contracts of the Group, including renewal of the existing continuing connected transactions 
and the revision of the annual caps for years 2017, 2018 and 2019.

g.  Finance Committee

The Finance Committee was established in 1993 and currently comprises of Professor Roger King and Mr. Chow 
Philip Yiu Wah, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of the Finance Committee.

The primary duties of the Finance Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

assist in the financial requirements of the Group including financing, refinancing, leasing, purchase and sale 
of vessels, properties and equipment and the financing of the business operations of the Group;

report to the Board on its decisions, and any matter in respect of which it considers that action is needed, and 
its recommendation as to the steps to be taken; and to

discuss  and  review  the  disclosure  obligations  of  the  Company  on  financial,  accounting  or  related  issues 
on  compliance  with  the  Listing  Rules  and  refer  transactions  with  their  recommendations  to  the  Executive 
Committee of the Company for its endorsement and/or approval.

72

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Corporate Governance Report

h.  Share Committee

The  Share  Committee  was  established  in  1992  and  currently  comprises  of  Professor  Roger  King  and  Mr.  Chow 
Philip Yiu Wah, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of the Share Committee.

The primary duties of the Share Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

deal  with  and  grant  approval  on  the  removal  of  the  ordinary  shares  of  the  Company  from  the  Principal 
Register in Bermuda to the Branch Register in Hong Kong or vice versa;

deal  with  share  transactions  including,  but  not  limited  to  share  repurchases,  issue  of  bonus  shares,  scrip 
dividend schemes, top up placings, share subscriptions and placement of the Company’s shares;

give  authorisation  to  the  Company’s  Principal  Registrar  and  Branch  Registrar  to  issue  share  certificates  to 
shareholders who have reported loss of share certificates and in connection with the above share transactions; 
and to

discuss and review the disclosure obligations of the Company on share transactions and compliance with the 
Listing Rules.

i. 

Inside Information Committee

The  Inside  Information  Committee  was  established  in  2013  and  currently  comprises  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen 
(chairman  of  the  Inside  Information  Committee),  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew,  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan  and 
Ms. Lammy Lee.

The primary duties of the Inside Information Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

ensure proper systems and control are in place to collect, review and verify potential inside information;

identify, assess and escalate potential inside information to the attention of the Board; report to the Board on 
the  recommendation  of  the  Inside  Information  Committee,  and  any  matter  in  respect  of  which  it  considers 
that  action  is  needed,  and  its  recommendation  as  to  the  actions  to  be  taken  and  what  information  to  be 
disclosed;

vet and clear announcements or other public disclosures; and to

supervise the Company’s compliance with continuing disclosure obligations.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

73

Corporate Governance Report

9.  Attendance Records of Board Meetings, Board Committees Meetings and General Meetings

The attendance records of each Director of the Board Committees of the Company at the relevant meetings held in year 
2016 are as follows:

No. of meetings held during the year

Executive Directors
Mr. Tung Chee Chen 

 (Chairman, President and 
Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan  

(Chief Financial Officer)

Non-Executive Director
Professor Roger King

Independent Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Simon Murray
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard
Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward
Mr. Kwok King Man Clement

Board

6

6/6

6/6
6/6

6/6

3/6
6/6
4/6
5/6
6/6

Actual Attendance/Number of Meetings a Director is entitled to attend

Executive 
Committee

Audit 
Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

Nomination 
Committee

Risk 
Committee

Compliance 
Committee

Finance 
Committee

Share 
Committee

Inside 
Information 
Committee

13

13/13

13/13
13/13

–

–
–
–
–
–

2

–

–
–

–

2/2
2/2
2/2
1/2
2/2

3

3/3

–
–

–

–
3/3
3/3
–
–

1

1/1

–
–

–

–
1/1
1/1
–
–

2

2/2

2/2
2/2

2/2

–
2/2
–
–
–

3

–

–
3/3

–

–
–
–
–
–

1

–

–
–

1/1

–
1/1
–
–
–

1

–

–
–

1/1

–
1/1
–
–
–

0

0

0
0

–

–
–
–
–
–

2015 
AGM

1

1/1

1/1
1/1

1/1

0/1
1/1
1/1
0/1
1/1

Average attendance rate

88.89%

100%

90%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

N/A

77.78%

10.  Securities Transactions by Directors

The  Company  has  adopted  its  own  code  of  conduct  regarding  securities  transactions  by  Directors  on  terms  no  less 
exacting than the required standard set out in the Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers 
(the “Model Code”) contained in Appendix 10 to the Listing Rules.

All  Directors  have  confirmed,  following  specific  enquiry  by  the  Company,  that  they  have  fully  complied  with  the 
required  standards  set  out  in  both  the  Company’s  own  code  and  the  Model  Code  for  the  year  ended  31st  December 
2016.

74

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Corporate Governance Report

11.  Share Interests of Directors and Senior Management

a.  Directors

Directors’ interests in the shares of the Company are set out on pages 85 and 86 of this annual report.

b.  Senior Management

As at 31st December 2016, the number of shares of the Company held by the senior management of the Group are 
as follows:

Name

Mr. Michael Fitzgerald

Mr. Raymond Fung

Mr. Teddy Fung

Ms. Lammy Lee

Mr. Stephen Ng

Mr. Steve Siu

Mr. Erxin Yao

Mr. Kenny Ye

Number of shares held

7,500

–

–

–

–

–

5,000

500

12.  Emoluments of Directors and Senior Management (Note)

a.  Emoluments of Directors

The emoluments of the Directors of the Company for the year ended 31st December 2016 are set out on page 128 
of this annual report.

b.  Emoluments of Senior Management

The emoluments of the senior management of the Group for the year ended 31st December 2016 are set out below:

Emolument bands (US$)

320,501 – 384,600

384,601 – 448,700

448,701 – 512,800

512,801 – 576,900

576,901 – 641,000

Total

Number of individuals 
2016

2

1

3

1

1

8

Note: biographical details of senior management are set out on pages 54 and 55 of this annual report.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

75

Corporate Governance Report

B.  ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT

1.  External Auditor

PricewaterhouseCoopers  was  re-appointed  as  the  Company’s  external  auditor  by  shareholders  at  the  2015  AGM  until 
the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.

The Company has established a policy on appointment of external auditor in providing non-audit services, setting out 
the principles by which an external auditor may be appointed to provide non-audit services, with a view to ensuring the 
independence of the external auditor.

The fee in respect of audit and non-audit services provided by the external auditor to the Company for the year ended 
31st December 2016 is set out on page 130 note 11 to the consolidated financial statements of this annual report.

2.  Directors’ and Auditor’s Acknowledgement

All Directors acknowledged their responsibilities for preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 
31st December 2016.

PricewaterhouseCoopers,  the  external  auditor  of  the  Company,  acknowledged  the  reporting  responsibilities  in  the 
auditor’s report on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2016.

3.  Internal Controls

The  Board  is  responsible  for  establishing  and  maintaining  appropriate  and  effective  internal  control  systems  for  the 
Group,  and  through  the  Audit  Committee,  conducts  reviews  of  the  effectiveness  of  such  systems  at  least  annually, 
covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management functions. 
The process used in reviewing the effectiveness of these internal control systems includes discussion with management 
on risk areas identified by management of the Company and principal division of the Group and review of significant 
issues  arising  from  internal  and  external  audits.  The  Company’s  internal  control  systems  comprise  a  well  established 
organisational structure and comprehensive policies and standards. Procedures have been designed to safeguard assets 
against  unauthorised  use  or  disposition,  to  maintain  proper  accounting  records,  for  assurance  of  the  reliability  of 
financial  information  for  internal  use  or  publication,  and  to  ensure  compliance  with  applicable  laws  and  regulations. 
The  purpose  of  the  Company’s  internal  control  is  to  provide  reasonable,  but  not  absolute,  assurance  against  material 
misstatement or loss and to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure in operational systems and achievement of the 
Company’s objectives.

The Board has established the following measures to provide effective internal controls:

– 

– 

– 

a  distinct  organisational  structure  for  the  principal  division  with  defined  authority  responsibilities  and  control/
measures;

an  annual  budget  for  the  principal  division  allocating  resources  in  accordance  with  identified  and  prioritised 
business opportunities. The annual budget for the principal division is approved by the Board on an annual basis;

a  comprehensive  management  accounting  system  for  the  principal  division  to  provide  financial  and  operational 
performance  indicators  to  the  relevant  management,  and  financial  information  for  reporting  and  disclosure 
purposes. Actual operational results are measured against budget each month. Detailed forecasts for the year and 
long-term forecasts of profit and loss, cash flow and balance sheets are regularly reviewed and updated. Variances 
to budget are analysed and explained and appropriate action taken, if necessary;

76

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

systems and procedures are in place to identify, measure, manage and control risks including business, compliance, 
operational,  financial  and  information  services  risks  that  may  have  an  impact  on  the  Group  and  the  principal 
division.  Exposure  to  these  risks  is  monitored  by  the  Executive  Committee  and  the  management  of  the  principal 
division;

clearly defined procedures are in place for the control of capital and major expenditure commitments, off-balance 
sheet financial instruments and the supervision, control and review of the investment portfolio; and

the  Internal  Audit  Department  performs  independent  reviews  of  the  risks  and  controls  identified  to  provide 
reasonable  assurance  to  management  of  the  Company  and  principal  division  and  the  Audit  Committee  that 
controls have been set in place and adequately addressed.

The  internal  audit  function,  which  is  centrally  controlled,  monitors  compliance  with  policies  and  standards  as  well  as 
the  effectiveness  of  internal  control  structures  across  the  Company  and  the  Group.  To  preserve  the  independence  of 
the internal audit function, the Head of Internal Audit reports functionally to the Audit Committee whose chairman is 
an Independent Non-Executive Director who has direct access to the Board. Using a risk-based approach, the Internal 
Audit  Department  plans  its  internal  audit  schedules  annually  in  consultation  with,  but  independent  of,  management 
of  the  Company  and  the  principal  division.  The  Internal  Audit  Department  has  unrestricted  access  to  information 
that  allows  it  to  review  all  aspects  of  the  Group’s  risk  management,  control  and  governance  processes.  Independent 
reviews of different financial, business and functional operations and activities are conducted with audit resources being 
focused on high risk areas. Ad hoc reviews are also conducted on areas of concern identified by the Audit Committee 
and  management  of  the  Company  and  the  principal  division.  The  management  of  the  Company  and  the  principal 
division including the affected subsidiary are notified of the deficiencies noted for rectification, and the Internal Audit 
Department follows up with the implementation of audit recommendations.

The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board assesses the effectiveness of the internal control system including detecting 
fraud  and  other  irregularities  by  reviewing  the  Internal  Audit  Department’s  work  and  findings.  On  a  yearly  basis,  the 
Internal Audit Department summarises the major audit findings and other relevant information that have come to the 
Internal Audit Department’s attention during the course of the audits and reports to the Audit Committee.

According to the 2016 Internal Audit report, the Group’s internal control system is functioning effectively, there was no 
significant weakness found in the course of the audits carried out during the year, and there is no change in the nature 
and  extent  of  significant  risks  as  well  as  the  scope  and  quality  of  management’s  ongoing  monitoring  of  the  risks  and 
the  internal  control  system.  The  Audit  Committee  has  concluded  that  the  Group  has  maintained  sound  and  effective 
internal  controls  to  safeguard  the  Group’s  assets,  and  there  is  an  ongoing  process  in  place  for  identifying,  evaluating 
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The Board, therefore, is of the view that there are no significant 
frauds,  irregularities,  internal  control  deficiencies  or  suspected  infringement  of  laws,  rules  and  regulations  that  cause 
the Board to believe that the systems of internal control are ineffective or inadequate, and there are no significant areas 
of concern which may affect shareholders. The Board is satisfied that the Company and the Group have fully complied 
with the code provisions on internal control as set forth in the SEHK Code for the year ended 31st December 2016.

To  ensure  on-going  compliance  with  the  SEHK  Code,  the  Audit  Committee  reviewed  the  adequacy  of  staffing  of  the 
accounting, internal audit and financial reporting functions on behalf of the Board and was satisfied with the adequacy 
of resources, staff qualifications and experience, training programmes and budget of the Company’s accounting, internal 
audit and financial reporting functions.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

77

Corporate Governance Report

The  Company  has  implemented  the  following  procedures  and  internal  controls  for  the  handling  and  dissemination  of 
inside information:

a) 

it monitors any inside information and makes appropriate announcement as required by the Listing Rules;

b) 

it conducts its affairs by reference to the “Guidelines on Disclosure of Inside Information” issued by the Securities 
and Futures Commission;

c) 

it has established procedures for handling external affairs about the Group; and

d) 

it has established guidelines to be followed by senior management and employees in dealing with confidential and 
inside information.

4.  Risk Management

The Board acknowledges that risks are inherent in our business and the market in which we operate, and our approach 
is  if  risks  are  effectively  managed,  it  can  be  a  value  driver  for  competitive  advantage  and  the  exercising  of  risk 
management abilities can become an advantage to differentiate the Group from its competitors.

The Group has built and maintained sound and effective risk management and internal control systems to safeguard the 
Group’s  assets,  but  not  absolute  assurance  against  material  misstatement  or  loss  and  to  manage  rather  than  eliminate 
risks  of  failure  in  operational  systems  and  achievement  of  the  Group’s  strategic  business  objectives.  In  the  context  of 
the  Group’s  capital  structure  and  business  models;  it  would  re-assess  the  risk  appetite  on  a  regular  basis,  taking  into 
consideration  the  Group’s  business  strategies  and  return  targets.  The  risk  strategy  of  the  Group,  adopting  a  proactive 
approach, would be determined upon analysis results for a specific risk through the risk management process; and once 
risk is identified based on the risk strategy, it will be managed so that it can be understood, minimized, transferred or 
contained, through a group-wide risk management framework.

The Risk Committee delegates to the management, the design and setting of risk management parameters, who would 
work  with  relevant  stakeholders  of  its  business  and  operation  units  to  identify  key  risk  areas  to  be  assessed  and  risk 
control measures formulated to mitigate and guide each local and regional office. The key risk management areas would 
be  regularly  reviewed  to  identify  areas  for  improvement,  from  which  where  necessary,  the  development  of  policies 
and procedures for the Group to manage and control risks that might have an impact on the Group and the principal 
division  including  potential  risks  in  critical  business  areas  that  are  both  strategic  and  operational  levels,  to  ensure 
business  continuity,  to  optimize  business  result,  and  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  relevant  rules  and  regulations. 
The Risk Committee reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems and 
internal audits are conducted as part of ongoing review on the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control 
systems.

The  Group’s  risk  management  organization  structure  has  a  “top-down”  approach  on  oversight,  risk  identification  and 
assessment, and mitigation of risk at corporate level; and a “bottom-up” approach on risk identification and assessment, 
and mitigation of risk at business unit level and cross functional areas for its risk management.

Based  on  the  Group  risk  management  principles  and  culture  in  taking  justifiable  calculated  risk  in  business  decision 
after identifying the inherent risks, exploring possible mitigation and assessing all relevant costs and benefits as a result 
of the decision; and promoting a risk-intelligent culture in the organization, in which a risk-averse, risk-seeking or risk-
neutral attitude might be adopted as and when the circumstances justified; risk management policy is set up to ensure 
common understanding of risk principles and encouraging a risk intelligent culture on a group-wide level.

78

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Corporate Governance Report

The Group has (i) a formalized enterprise risk management (“ERM”) process, taking into consideration of the Group’s 
organization  structure  and  nature  of  business;  and  (ii)  developed  a  risk  register  with  a  principal  risk  dashboard  that 
summarizes major risks whose potential consequences are significant at group level and may trigger risk events that in 
aggregate, become significant to the Group as at a given time, and a functional risk dashboard. This provides a point-in-
time assessment of the risk profile of the Group for the Risk Committee and the Board on the nature and extent of the 
risks faced by the Group.

The  Group  has  adopted  an  activity-based  “three  lines  of  defence”  risk  governance  model  to  delegate  and  coordinate 
essential risk management and control duties in a clear and cohesive manner:

(a)  First line of defence – Functional units establish risk and control environments in the Group’s day-to-day business 
operations, and as risk owners, are responsible for risk identification, formulation of risk mitigation strategies and 
upward reporting of risk monitoring progress;

(b)  Second line of defence – The Risk Management Department monitors the risk management system and facilitates 
the  development  and  setting  of  policies  and  guidelines  and  its  effective  implementation.  It  provides  advice  and 
guidance to the first-line functional units on implementation of the risk management and internal control systems; 
and

(c)  Third line of defence – The Internal Audit Department provides independent review on the effectiveness of the risk 

management and internal control systems.

The  Group’s  ERM  process  is  underpinned  by  its  risk  culture,  which  is  aligned  to  the  overall  ethics  and  culture  of 
the  Group.  The  ERM  process  consists  of  eight  process  components:  internal  environment,  objective  setting,  risk 
identification, risk assessment, risk response, control activities, communication and monitoring; and is used to identify, 
evaluate  and  manage  the  significant  risks  to  the  Group.  The  functional  units  translate  the  risk  events  and  incorporate 
the  Group  risk  appetite  into  quantitative  tolerance  limits  to  monitor  and  manage  the  identified  material  risks  in  line 
with  the  Board’s  strategies;  before  communicating  their  recommended  mitigation  plans  to  the  Risk  Management 
Department. The Group risk register allows categorisation and prioritisation of risks, risk documentation and reporting, 
and the monitoring of the ongoing development of risks.

For the year ended 31st December 2016, following management confirmation to the Risk Committee on its scope and 
quality  of  its  ongoing  risks  monitoring  and  internal  control  systems;  and  satisfaction  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  risk 
management and internal control systems with no significant control failings or weaknesses and no significant areas of 
concern identified which might affect the shareholders of the Company, the Risk Committee has reported twice to the 
Board on their review and confirmation of its satisfaction on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and 
internal control systems, including the scope and quality of the Group’s ongoing monitoring of risks.

The  Board  confirmed  that  the  Group’s  risk  management  and  internal  control  systems  are  functioning  adequately  and 
effectively. The Board is satisfied that the Company and the Group have fully complied with the code provisions on risk 
management as set forth in the SEHK Code for the year ended 31st December 2016.

C.  COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS

The  Company  attaches  great  importance  to  communications  with  shareholders.  Extensive  information  on  the  Group’s 
activities,  business  strategies  and  developments  is  provided  in  the  Company’s  annual  reports  and  interim  reports. 
Shareholders  of  the  Company  are  encouraged  to  attend  the  annual  general  meetings  of  the  Company  which  offer  a 
valuable  forum  for  dialogue  and  interaction  with  management.  The  Chairman  of  the  Board  and  the  chairpersons  of  the 
Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee,  the  Nomination  Committee  and  other  Board  committees,  or  in  their 
absence, another member of the relevant committee, are available at the annual general meetings to answer questions from 
shareholders on the business of the Group. A separate resolution is proposed by the Chairman in respect of each issue at the 
general meetings.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

79

Corporate Governance Report

The  Company  has  also  established  a  shareholders’  communication  policy  to  ensure  shareholders  are  provided  with  ready, 
equal and timely access to balanced and understandable information about the Company. The policy is regularly reviewed to 
ensure its effectiveness and is available on written request to the Company Secretary.

The most recent shareholders’ meeting of the Company was the 2015 AGM held at Dynasty Room, 7th Floor, The Dynasty 
Club,  South  West  Tower,  Convention  Plaza,  1  Harbour  Road,  Wanchai,  Hong  Kong  on  29th  April  2016,  at  which  the 
following ordinary resolutions were passed with the voting results as follows:

Ordinary Resolutions

1.

2.

To consider and adopt the audited Financial Statements and the Reports of 
the Directors and the Auditor for the year ended 31st December 2015.

To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31st December 2015.

3(a). To re-elect Mr. Kwok King Man Clement as Director.

3(b). To re-elect Mr. Tung Chee Chen as Director.

3(c). To re-elect Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan as Director.

3(d). To re-elect Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard as Director.

4.

5.

To authorise the Board of Directors to fix the Directors’ remuneration.

To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers as Auditor and to authorise the 
Board of Directors to fix their remuneration.

6(a). To grant a general mandate to the Directors to allot, issue and deal with the 

Company’s shares.

6(b). To grant a general mandate to the Directors to repurchase the Company’s 

shares.

6(c). To extend the general mandate to issue shares to cover the shares 

repurchased by the Company under Resolution No. 6(b).

7.

To adopt the new Bye-laws of the Company.

Special Resolution

Number of Votes (%)
For

Against

546,812,248 
(99.999726%)

546,819,248 
(99.999726%)

546,347,108 
(99.913383%)

511,610,706 
(93.561638%)

511,494,976 
(96.245219%)

537,201,778 
(98.240928%)

546,451,142 
(99.965863%)

546,568,748 
(99.955195%)

440,453,828 
(80.549150%)

546,459,248 
(99.968626%)

443,235,332 
(81.057825%)

1,500 
(0.000274%)

1,500 
(0.000274%)

473,640 
(0.086617%)

35,206,042 
(6.438362%)

19,954,772 
(3.754781%)

9,618,970 
(1.759072%)

186,606 
(0.034137%)

245,000 
(0.044805%)

106,359,920 
(19.450850%)

171,500 
(0.031374%)

103,578,416 
(18.942175%)

Number of Votes (%)
For

Against

479,666,121 
(87.723159%)

67,129,190 
(12.276841%)

Since the publication of the Company’s 2010 interim report, the Company has offered to the shareholders of the Company 
the  following  options  to  choose  the  language  and  means  of  receipt  of  the  corporate  communications  of  the  Company  in 
support of environment protection and for the purpose of saving printing and mailing costs:

(1) 

to  read  the  corporate  communication  published  on  the  Company’s  website  at  http://www.ooilgroup.com  in  place  of 
receiving  printed  copies,  and  receive  an  e-mail  notification  or  a  printed  notification  letter  (as  the  case  may  be)  of  the 
publication of the corporate communication on website; or

(2) 

to  receive  either  the  printed  English  version,  the  printed  Chinese  version  or  both  the  printed  English  and  Chinese 
versions of the Company’s corporate communication.

80

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance Report

D.  SHAREHOLDERS’ RIGHTS

1.  Convening a special general meeting

Pursuant to the Bermuda Companies Act and the Company’s Bye-law, the shareholder(s) of the Company holding not 
less than one-tenth of the paid up capital of the Company having the right to vote at general meetings of the Company 
shall have the right, by written requisition sent to the Company’s registered office at Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, 
Hamilton  HM11,  Bermuda  and  to  the  Company’s  principal  office  at  33rd  Floor,  Harbour  Centre,  25  Harbour  Road, 
Wanchai, Hong Kong, for the attention of the Company Secretary of the Company, to require a special general meeting 
(the “SGM”) to be called by the Board for the transaction of any business specified in such requisition.

The written requisition must state the purposes of the general meeting, signed by the shareholder(s) concerned and may 
consist of several documents in like form, each signed by one or more of those shareholders.

Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  Company’s  branch  share  registrar  (the  “Registrar”)  that  the  shareholder(s) 
submitting the requisition is/are qualified to attend and vote at any general meeting, the Company will convene a SGM 
by serving sufficient notice in accordance with the statutory requirements to all the registered shareholders.

2.  Putting forward proposals at general meetings

The shareholder(s) of the Company holding (i) not less than one-twentieth of the total voting rights of all shareholders 
having the right to vote at the general meeting of the Company; or (ii) not less than 100 shareholders of the Company, 
can submit:

(i)  a written request stating the resolution intended to be moved at an annual general meeting; or

(ii)  a statement of not more than 1,000 words with respect to the matter referred to in any proposed resolution or the 

business to be dealt with at a particular general meeting.

The  written  request/statement  must  be  signed  by  the  shareholder(s)  concerned  and  deposited  at  the  Company’s 
registered office at Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda and to the Company’s principal office 
at 33rd Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong, for the attention of the Company Secretary of 
the Company, not less than six weeks before the annual general meeting in the case of a requisition requiring notice of a 
resolution and not less than one week before the general meeting in the case of any other requisition.

Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  Registrar  of  the  Company  that  the  shareholder(s)  making  the  proposal  is/are 
qualified to attend and vote at the general meeting, the Company will:

(i) 

include the resolution in the agenda for the annual general meeting; or

(ii)  circulate the statement for the general meeting,

provided that the shareholder(s) concerned have deposited a sum of money sufficient to meet the Company’s expenses 
in serving the notice of the resolution and/or circulating the statement to all the registered shareholders.

3.  Putting enquiries to the Board

Shareholders  who  have  enquiries  to  put  to  the  Board  of  the  Company  may  write  to  the  Company  Secretary  of  the 
Company at 33rd Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

81

Corporate Governance Report

E.  INVESTOR RELATIONS

The Company continues to promote and enhance investor relations and communication with its investors. The Company’s 
investor  relations  team  maintains  regular  dialogue  with  institutional  investors,  analysts  and  fund  managers  to  keep  them 
abreast of the Group’s development.

Shareholders, investors and members of the public are able to access up-to-date corporate information and events related to 
the Group on the Company’s website.

1.  Shareholdings Information

As at 31st December 2016:

Authorised  share  capital:  US$205,000,000,  comprising  900,000,000  ordinary  shares  of  US$0.1  each,  65,000,000  limited 
voting convertible redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each and 50,000,000 redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each.

Issued and fully-paid up capital: US$62,579,329.7 comprising 625,793,297 ordinary shares of US$0.1 each.

Details of the shareholding of the ordinary shares of the Company by the type of shareholders as at 31st December 2016 
are as follows:

Type of Shareholders

Corporate
Individual

Total

Number of 
Shareholders

Shareholders  
% of total

Number 
of Shares

620,581,422
5,211,875

2.4134%
97.5866%

23
930

953

100.00%

625,793,297

Details of the shareholding of the ordinary shares of the Company by range as at 31st December 2016 are as follows:

Size of shareholdings

1 – 10,000
10,001 – 100,000
100,001 – 1,000,000
1,000,001 or above

Total

2.  Public Float

Number of 
Shareholders

Shareholders  
% of total

892
55
2
4

953

93.5992%
5.7712%
0.2099%
0.4197%

100.00%

Based  on  information  that  is  publicly  available  to  the  Company  and  within  the  knowledge  of  the  Directors,  the 
percentage of its public float exceeded 25% as at 31st December 2016.

3.  Financial Calendar

Important dates for the coming financial year are set out on page 56 of this annual report.

4.  Memorandum of Association and Bye-Laws

In order to bring the bye-laws of the Company in line with the Listing Rules and the Bermuda Companies Act and to 
incorporate certain house-keeping amendments, the adoption of new bye-laws of the Company was approved by way of 
a special resolution at the 2015 AGM. An up-to-date consolidated version of the memorandum of association and bye-
laws of the Company is available on the Company’s website and the HKEXnews website.

82

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Report of the Directors

Report of the Directors

The  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Company  (the  “Board”)  presents  this  report  together  with  the  audited  consolidated  financial 

statements for the year ended 31st December 2016.

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

The principal activity of the Company is investment holding and the activities of its principal subsidiaries, associated companies 

and joint ventures are set out on pages 156 to 163 of this annual report.

GROUP RESULTS

The consolidated results of the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Group”) are set out on page 98 of this 

annual report.

DIVIDENDS

The Board did not declare the payment of an interim dividend for the year ended 31st December 2016.

The Board has resolved not to recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31st December 2016.

BUSINESS REVIEW

A  review  of  the  business  of  the  Group  and  an  analysis  of  the  Group’s  performance  during  the  year  are  provided  in  Chairman’s 

Letter  on  pages  10  to  13,  Operations  Review  on  pages  14  to  23  and  Financial  Review  sections  on  pages  34  to  49  of  this  annual 

report. Description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group is facing can be found in Chairman’s Letter on pages 10 

to 13 and Operations Review on pages 14 to 23. Also, the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group can be 

found in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. No important events affecting the Group have occurred since the end of 

the financial year ended 31st December 2016. The Group’s future business development is provided in Chairman’s Letter on pages 

10 to 13 and Operations Review on pages 14 to 23 of this annual report. In addition, discussions on the Group’s environmental 

policies and performance and compliance with the relevant laws and regulations and an account of the Group’s key relationships 

with  its  employees,  customers  and  suppliers  and  stakeholders,  that  have  a  significant  impact  on  the  Group  are  contained  in 

Corporate Responsibility section on pages 24 to 33 of this annual report and in the Company’s 2016 Sustainability Report to be 

published  in  accordance  with  the  Rules  Governing  the  Listing  of  Securities  on  The  Stock  Exchange  of  Hong  Kong  Limited  (the 

“Listing Rules”).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

83

 
Report of the Directors

DIRECTORS

The Directors of the Company during the year and up to the date of this report were:

Executive Directors

Mr. Tung Chee Chen (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer)

Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew

Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan (Chief Financial Officer)

Non-Executive Director

Professor Roger King

Independent Non-Executive Directors

Mr. Simon Murray

Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah

Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard

Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward

Mr. Kwok King Man Clement

In accordance with bye-laws 87(2) and 87(3) of the Bye-laws of the Company (the “Bye-laws”), Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew, 

Mr. Simon Murray and Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah will retire by rotation and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election at 
the annual general meeting of the Company to be held on 27th April 2017 (the “Annual General Meeting”). Mr. Simon Murray, 

an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director,  has  served  the  Company  for  more  than  nine  years,  and  his  re-election  will  be  subject 
to a separate resolution to be approved at the Annual General Meeting pursuant to the Corporate Governance Code (the “SEHK 
Code”) contained in Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules.

None  of  the  Directors  has  a  service  contract  with  the  Company  or  any  of  its  subsidiaries  which  is  not  determinable  by  the 

employing company within one year without payment of compensation, other than statutory compensation.

The  Company  has  received  from  each  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company,  confirmation  of  his  independence 

pursuant to rule 3.13 of the Listing Rules and considers all of them are independent.

DIRECTORS’ RIGHTS TO ACQUIRE SHARES OR DEBENTURES

Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries was a party to any arrangement to enable the Directors of the Company to acquire 

benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate at any time during 

the year or at the end of the year.

84

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Report of the Directors

DIRECTORS’ AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S INTEREST

1.  Significant Contracts

The Group shares the rental of office premises at Harbour Centre, Hong Kong on an actual cost reimbursement basis with 
Island  Navigation  Corporation  International  Limited  (“INCIL”),  which  is  owned  by  a  Tung  family  trust.  The  total  amount 
of  rental  on  an  actual  cost  reimbursement  basis  paid  by  INCIL  to  the  Group  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2016  was 
approximately US$1,601,000.

Yuensung Investment Company Limited (“Yuensung”), a company controlled by Mr. C U Tung, the uncle of Mr. Tung Chee 
Chen,  also  shares  the  rental  of  an  office  premises  at  Harbour  Centre,  Hong  Kong  with  our  Group.  The  total  amount  of 
rental  on  an  actual  cost  reimbursement  basis  paid  by  Yuensung  to  the  Group  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2016  was 
approximately US$91,000.

Except for the above (other than contracts amongst Group companies), no other contracts or arrangements of significance in 
relation to the Group’s business to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party, and in which a Director of the 
Company had a material interest, subsisted at the year end or at any time during the year.

2.  Shares

As at 31st December 2016, the issued share capital of the Company consisted of 625,793,297 ordinary shares (the “Shares”). 
The  interests  and  short  positions  of  the  Directors  and  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Company  in  the  Shares,  the  underlying 
Shares  and  the  debentures  of  the  Company  or  any  of  its  associated  corporations  (within  the  meaning  of  Part  XV  of  the 
Securities and Futures Ordinance (“SFO”)) as recorded in the register kept by the Company pursuant to Section 352 of the 
SFO or otherwise notified to the Company and The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Stock Exchange”) pursuant 
to  the  Model  Code  for  Securities  Transactions  by  Directors  of  Listed  Issuers  (the  “Model  Code”)  contained  in  the  Listing 
Rules, were as follows:

Name

Direct interests

Other interests

Tung Chee Chen

Chow Philip Yiu Wah

Simon Murray
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard

Notes:

–

133,100

10,000
–

429,950,088 
(Notes 1 & 2)
20,000 
(Note 3)
–
500 
(Note 4)

Total number 
of Shares 
(Long position)

429,950,088

153,100

10,000
500

Percentage

68.70%

0.024%

0.002%
0.00008%

1.  Mr. Tung Chee Chen has an interest in a trust which, through Artson Global Limited (“Artson”) as trustee, holds shares of Thelma Holdings 
Limited  (“Thelma”),  which  has  an  indirect  interest  in  429,950,088  Shares,  in  which  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  (“Fortune  Crest”)  and  Gala  Way 
Company  Inc.  (“Gala  Way”),  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  of  Thelma,  have  direct  interests  in  350,722,656  Shares  and  79,227,432  Shares 
respectively. The voting rights in respect of such 429,950,088 Shares are held by Mr. Tung Chee Chen through Tung Holdings (Trustee) Inc. 
(“THTI”).

2. 

Fortune Crest and Gala Way together are referred to as the controlling shareholders.

3. 

20,000 Shares are held by the spouse of Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah.

4. 

500 Shares are held by the spouse of Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

85

Report of the Directors

Save  as  disclosed  above,  as  at  31st  December  2016,  none  of  the  Directors  or  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Company  had  any 
interest  or  short  position  in  the  Shares,  the  underlying  Shares  and  the  debentures  of  the  Company  or  any  of  its  associated 
corporation (within the meaning of the SFO) which were required to be: (a) notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange 
pursuant to Divisions 7 and 8 of Part XV of the SFO (including interests and short positions which they are taken or deemed 
to have under such provisions of the SFO); or (b) entered in the register kept by the Company pursuant to Section 352 of the 
SFO; or (c) notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange pursuant to the Model Code.

Save as disclosed in below section “Substantial Shareholders’ Share Interest”, as at 31st December 2016, none of the Directors 
or the Chief Executive of the Company is a director or an employee of a company which had an interest or short position in 
the Shares and the underlying Shares which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of Divisions 2 
and 3 of Part XV of the SFO.

3.  Directors’ Interests in Competing Business

As  at  31st  December  2016,  none  of  the  Directors  and  their  respective  associates  (as  defined  in  the  Listing  Rules)  had  any 
interest in a business, which competes or may compete with the business of the Group.

MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS

No contracts concerning the management and administration of the whole or any substantial part of any business of the Company 
were entered into during the year or subsisted at the end of the year.

SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS’ SHARE INTEREST

As at 31st December 2016, the following persons (other than the Directors or the Chief Executive of the Company) had an interest 
or short position in the Shares and the underlying Shares which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of 
Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO as recorded in the register required to be kept by the Company under Section 336 of the 
SFO:

Name

Artson Global Limited*
Hanberry Global Limited#
Thelma Holdings Limited*
Tung Chee Hwa
Archmore Investment Limited*
Edgemont Holdings Limited*
Javier Global Limited*
Bartlock Assets Ltd.#
Flowell Development Inc.
Izone Capital Limited*
Jeference Capital Inc.*
Tung Holdings (Trustee) Inc.*
Fortune Crest Inc.*
Gala Way Company Inc.*
Silchester International Investors LLP

Nature of interest

Trustee
Trustee
Indirect
Indirect
Beneficiary of a trust
Indirect
Indirect
Beneficiary of a trust
Beneficiary of a trust
Beneficiary of a trust
Beneficiary of a trust
Voting
Direct
Direct
Investment manager

Number of Shares 
interested 
(Long position)

429,950,088 (Note 1)
429,950,088 (Note 2)
429,950,088 (Note 3)
429,975,319 (Note 4)
429,950,088 (Note 5)
429,950,088 (Note 6)
429,950,088 (Note 7)
429,950,088 (Note 8)
429,950,088 (Note 9)
429,950,088 (Note 10)
429,950,088 (Note 11)
429,950,088 (Note 12)
350,722,656 (Note 13)
79,227,432 (Note 14)
43,808,500

Percentage

68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
56.04%
12.66%
7.00%

86

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Report of the Directors

Notes:

1. 

Artson, a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, holds 56.36% of the shares of Thelma and, accordingly, has an indirect interest in 

the same Shares in which Thelma has an interest.

2.  Hanberry  Global  Limited  (“Hanberry”),  a  company  which  is  wholly  owned  by  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa  (brother  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen,  brother-in-
law of Professor Roger King, and father of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew and Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan), holds 43.64% of the shares of Thelma and, 

accordingly, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Thelma has an interest.

3. 

Thelma, a company which is owned collectively by Artson and Hanberry, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Fortune Crest and Gala 

Way, wholly-owned subsidiaries of Thelma, have an interest.

4.  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa  has  an  interest  in  a  trust  which,  through  Hanberry  as  trustee,  holds  shares  of  Thelma,  which  has  an  indirect  interest  in 

429,950,088  Shares.  Mrs.  Tung  Chiu  Hung  Ping  Betty  (spouse  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa,  sister-in-law  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  and  Professor  Roger 

King, and mother of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew and Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan) owns 25,231 Shares.

5. 

Archmore Investment Limited (“Archmore”), a company which is wholly owned by Edgemont Holdings Limited (“Edgemont”), has an interest in a 
trust which, through Artson as trustee, holds shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

6. 

Edgemont has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Archmore, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Edgemont, has an interest.

7. 

Javier  Global  Limited  (“Javier”),  a  company  which  is  wholly  owned  by  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen,  has  an  indirect  interest  in  the  same  Shares  in  which 
Edgemont, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Javier, has an interest.

8. 

Bartlock Assets Ltd., a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Hwa, has an interest in a trust which, through Hanberry as trustee, holds 

shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

9. 

Flowell Development Inc., a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, has an interest in a trust which, through Artson as trustee, 

holds shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

10. 

Izone Capital Limited, a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, has an interest in a trust which, through Artson as trustee, holds 

shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

11. 

Jeference Capital Inc., a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, has an interest in a trust which, through Artson as trustee, holds 

shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

12.  THTI is a company wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen.

13.  Fortune Crest has a direct interest in 350,722,656 Shares.

14.  Gala Way has a direct interest in 79,227,432 Shares.

* 

For those companies marked with “*”, Mr. Tung Chee Chen is either a director of these companies or a director of a company which is a corporate 
director of these companies.

# 

For those companies marked with “#”, Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew is a director of these companies.

Save as disclosed herein, as at 31st December 2016, the Company has not been notified by any person (other than the Directors 
or the Chief Executive of the Company) who had an interest or short position in the Shares or the underlying Shares which were 
required to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO, or which were recorded 
in the register required to be kept by the Company under Section 336 of the SFO.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

87

Report of the Directors

CONNECTED TRANSACTIONS

During  the  year  ended  31st  December  2016,  the  Group  had  the  following  continuing  connected  transactions  (the  “Continuing 
Connected  Transactions”)  constituted  by  the  following  agreements  entered  into  by  OOCL  (Taiwan)  Co.,  Ltd.  (“OTWL”),  the 
Group’s Taiwanese subsidiary and acting as the general agent for the carrier of the Group in Taiwan:

a)  CMT Master Agreement

Pursuant  to  a  master  agreement  dated  29th  June  2005,  as  supplemented  by  the  supplemental  agreements  dated  10th 
December  2007,  15th  December  2010  and  4th  December  2013  (the  “CMT  Master  Agreement”),  all  entered  into  between 
OTWL and Chinese Maritime Transport Ltd. (“CMT”), CMT agreed to provide and to procure members of the CMT group 
to provide various services to the Group including, inter alia, (i) trucking service; (ii) leasing of equipment (including chassis 
and  tractors);  (iii)  maintenance  and  repair  services  for  generator  sets  and  chassis;  (iv)  freight  station  depot  and  container 
storage facilities; (v) container yard and gate services; and (vi) crew manning services, for successive periods of three years 
subject  to  the  annual  caps  of  US$50,000,000,  US$52,500,000  and  US$55,000,000  for  the  financial  years  of  2014,  2015  and 
2016 respectively.

During the year 2016, US$28,791,000 was paid by OTWL to the CMT group for the aforesaid services.

The CMT Master Agreement expired on 31st December 2016. OTWL and CMT have renewed the term of the CMT Master 
Agreement for three years commencing from 1st January 2017 for the provision of the aforesaid services by CMT group to 
the Group and have revised the annual caps to US$57,800,000, US$60,700,000 and US$63,800,000 for the financial years of 
2017, 2018 and 2019 respectively.

b)  AII Master Agreement

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 29th June 2005, as supplemented by the supplemental agreement dated 10th December 
2007,  15th  December  2010  and  4th  December  2013  (the  “AII  Master  Agreement”),  all  entered  into  between  OTWL  and 
Associated  International  Inc.  (“AII”),  AII  agreed  to  provide  and  to  procure  members  of  the  AII  group  to  provide  various 
services to the Group including, inter alia, (i) provision of office premises; and (ii) freight station depot and container storage 
facilities, for successive periods of three years subject to the annual caps of US$2,800,000 for the financial years of 2014, 2015 
and 2016 respectively.

During the year 2016, US$1,070,000 was paid by OTWL to the AII group for the aforesaid services.

The  AII  Master  Agreement  expired  on  31st  December  2016.  OTWL  and  AII  have  renewed  the  term  of  the  AII  Master 
Agreement for three years commencing from 1st January 2017 for the provision of the aforesaid services by AII group to the 
Group and have maintained the annual cap at US$2,800,000 for each of the financial years of 2017, 2018 and 2019.

Mr. John Peng is the controlling shareholder of CMT and AII, and the brother-in-law of Mr. Tung Chee Chen who is an Executive 
Director, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company; the brother-in-law of Professor Roger King, a Non-
Executive Director of the Company; the uncle of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew, an Executive Director of the Company, and Mr. 
Tung Lieh Sing Alan, an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer of the Company; and the brother-in-law of Mr. Tung Chee 
Hwa who has an interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in certain substantial shareholders of the Company. Mr. Peng and 
accordingly CMT and AII are therefore connected persons of the Company as defined in the Listing Rules.

Pursuant  to  rule  14A.55  of  the  Listing  Rules,  the  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors  of  the  Company,  namely  Mr.  Simon 
Murray,  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  Professor  Wong  Yue  Chim  Richard,  Mr.  Cheng  Wai  Sun  Edward  and  Mr.  Kwok  King  Man 
Clement, have reviewed the Continuing Connected Transactions and confirmed that the Continuing Connected Transactions have 
been entered into (a) in the ordinary and usual course of business of the Group; (b) on normal commercial terms or better; and (c) 
according to the relevant agreements governing them on terms that are fair and reasonable and in the interests of the shareholders 
of the Company as a whole.

88

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Report of the Directors

The  Company’s  auditor  was  engaged  to  report  on  the  Group’s  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  in  accordance  with  Hong 
Kong Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) “Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
Financial  Information”  and  with  reference  to  Practice  Note  740  “Auditor’s  Letter  on  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  under 
the  Hong  Kong  Listing  Rules”  issued  by  the  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified  Public  Accountants.  The  auditor  has  issued  his 
unqualified letter containing the findings and conclusions in respect of the Continuing Connected Transactions as disclosed above 
in  accordance  with  rule  14A.56  of  the  Listing  Rules  and  nothing  has  come  to  his  attention  that  causes  him  to  believe  that  the 
disclosed Continuing Connected Transactions:

(i)  have not been approved by the Board of Directors of the Company;

(ii)  were not entered into, in all material respects, in accordance with the relevant agreements governing the transactions; and

(iii)  have exceeded the maximum aggregate annual caps in respect of each of the disclosed Continuing Connected Transactions.

PERMITTED INDEMNITY

Pursuant  to  the  Company’s  Bye-laws  and  subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  statutes,  every  Director  of  the  Company  shall  be 
indemnified and secured harmless out of the assets and profits of the Company from and against all actions, costs, charges, losses, 
damages  and  expenses  which  he  may  incur  or  sustain  in  or  about  the  execution  of  his  duty;  provided  that  the  indemnity  shall 
not  extend  to  any  matter  in  respect  of  any  wilful  negligence,  wilful  default,  fraud  or  dishonesty  which  may  attach  to  any  of  the 
Directors.

Since 1992, the Company has arranged insurance cover for directors’ and officers’ liabilities including cover for Directors, officers 
and senior management of the Group arising out of the corporate activities of the Group.

PURCHASE, SALE OR REDEMPTION OF SHARES

During the year ended 31st December 2016, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has purchased, sold or redeemed any 
of the Company’s Shares.

PRE-EMPTIVE RIGHTS

No pre-emptive rights exist under Bermudan law in relation to the issue of new shares by the Company.

SHARE CAPITAL

Details of the shares of the Company issued during the year are set out in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements on page 
148 of this annual report.

RESERVES

Movements during the year in the reserves of the Group and the Company are set out in note 36 and note 42 to the consolidated 
financial statements on pages 148 and 155 of this annual report.

EQUITY-LINKED AGREEMENTS

For the year ended 31st December 2016, the Company has not entered into any equity-linked agreement.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The  Board  and  management  of  the  Company  are  committed  to  maintaining  high  standards  of  corporate  governance  and  the 
Company  considers  that  effective  corporate  governance  makes  an  important  contribution  to  corporate  success  and  to  the 
enhancement of shareholder value.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

89

Report of the Directors

The Company has adopted its own corporate governance code (the “CG Code”), which in addition to applying the principles as set 
out in the SEHK Code contained in Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules, also incorporates and conforms to local and international 
best  practices.  The  CG  Code  sets  out  the  corporate  governance  principles  applied  by  the  Company  and  its  subsidiaries  and  is 
constantly reviewed to ensure transparency, accountability and independence. Further information on the CG Code is set out in 
the corporate governance report (the “Corporate Governance Report”) on pages 59 to 82 of this annual report.

Throughout the year of 2016, the Company complied with the SEHK Code, except as set out in the Corporate Governance Report 
on page 59.

PUBLIC FLOAT

Based  on  information  that  is  publicly  available  to  the  Company  and  within  the  knowledge  of  the  Directors  of  the  Company,  as 
at the date of this report, there is sufficient public float of more than 25% of the Company’s issued Shares as required under the 
Listing Rules.

DONATIONS

Donations made by the Group during the year amount to US$279,000.

ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

The Annual General Meeting will be held on 27th April 2017.

A circular containing, inter alia, (i) a notice convening the Annual General Meeting; (ii) details of the retiring Directors to be re-
elected at the Annual General Meeting; (iii) the general mandate to authorise the allotment of and otherwise dealing with shares of 
all classes in the capital of the Company and securities convertible into shares and options, warrants or similar rights to subscribe 
for  shares  or  such  convertible  securities;  and  (iv)  the  general  mandate  to  authorise  the  repurchase  of  the  Company’s  securities 
together with a proxy form will be despatched to the shareholders of the Company on or around 23rd March 2017.

COMPANY SECRETARY

The Company Secretary of the Company is Ms. Lammy Lee, Barrister.

AUDITOR

The  Group’s  consolidated  financial  statements  have  been  audited  by  PricewaterhouseCoopers  who  will  retire  at  the  Annual 
General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.

On behalf of the Board
Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Tung Chee Chen
Chairman

Hong Kong, 10th March 2017

90

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Index – Financial Information

Index – Financial Information

Summary of significant accounting policies
Financial risk management

Content
Independent Auditor’s Report
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1.  General information
2. 
3. 
4.  Critical accounting estimates and judgements
5.  Revenue and segment information
6.  Operating costs
7.  Other operating income
8.  Other (losses)/gains, net
9.  Employee benefit expense
10.  Directors’ and management’s emoluments
11.  Operating (loss)/profit
12.  Finance costs
13.  Taxation
14.  (Loss)/earnings per ordinary share
15.  Dividends
16.  Property, plant and equipment
17.  Investment property
18.  Prepayments of lease premiums
19.  Joint ventures
20.  Associated companies
21.  Intangible assets
22.  Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities)
23.  Pension and retirement benefits
24.  Restricted bank balances
25.  Available-for-sale financial assets
26.  Held-to-maturity investments
27.  Other non-current assets
28.  Inventories
29.  Debtors and prepayments
30.  Amount due from an associated company
31.  Amounts due from joint ventures
32.  Portfolio investments
33.  Derivative financial instruments
34.  Cash and bank balances
35.  Share capital
36.  Reserves
37.  Borrowings
38.  Creditors and accruals
39.  Amounts due to joint ventures
40.  Commitments
41.  Notes to consolidated cash flow statement
42.  Company balance sheet
43.  Approval of consolidated financial statements
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures

Page no.
92
98
99
100
102
103

104
104
117
122
124
126
127
127
127
128
130
130
130
131
131
132
133
134
135
135
136
136
138
141
141
142
143
143
143
145
145
145
146
147
148
148
149
151
151
152
153
154
155
156

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

91

 
Independent Auditor’s Report 

Independent Auditor’s Report 

To the Shareholders of Orient Overseas (International) Limited
(incorporated in Bermuda with limited liability)

Opinion

What we have audited

The  consolidated  financial  statements  of  Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (the  “Company”)  and  its  subsidiaries  (the 
“Group”) set out on pages 98 to 163, which comprise:

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

the consolidated balance sheet as at 31st December 2016;
the consolidated profit and loss account for the year then ended;
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended;
the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and
the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies.

Our opinion

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group 
as at 31st December 2016, and of its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended 
in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants  (“HKICPA”)  and  have  been  properly  prepared  in  compliance  with  the  disclosure  requirements  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Companies Ordinance.

Basis for Opinion
We  conducted  our  audit  in  accordance  with  Hong  Kong  Standards  on  Auditing  (“HKSAs”)  issued  by  the  HKICPA.  Our 
responsibilities  under  those  standards  are  further  described  in  the  Auditor’s  Responsibilities  for  the  Audit  of  the  Consolidated 
Financial Statements section of our report.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence

We are independent of the Group in accordance with the HKICPA’s Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (“the Code”), and 
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code.

Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements as at and for the year ended 31st December 2016. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of 
the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on 
these matters.

92

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
Independent Auditor’s Report 

Key audit matters identified in our audit are summarised as follows:

• 
• 
• 

Recognition of freight revenue on a percentage of completion basis
Provision for operating costs
Impairment assessment on operating assets of container transport operation

Key Audit Matter

Recognition  of  freight  revenue  on  a  percentage  of 
completion basis

Refer to notes 2.21 and 5 to the consolidated financial 
statements.

For  the  year  ended  31st  December  2016,  the  majority 
of  the  Group’s  revenue  of  US$5,297.7  million  (2015: 
US$5,953.4 million) was derived from the freight revenue 
from container transport operation.

The  Group  recognises  freight  revenue  on  a  percentage  of 
completion  basis  which  is  determined  on  the  portion  of 
vessel  voyages  completed  at  year  end  with  reference  to 
their voyage details such as freight rates, departures dates 
and arrival dates.

The  transaction  volume  of  the  voyages  which  are  in 
progress  as  at  year  end  is  significant  and  complex 
calculations  are  involved  in  the  estimation  of  freight 
revenue on a percentage of completion basis.

How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Our procedures in relation to management’s quantification of 
freight revenue in relation to those vessel voyages which were 
in progress at year end included:

•  Understanding,  evaluating  and  testing  the  information 
technology general control environment of the operation 
system used to record the freight revenue transactions.

•  Understanding,  evaluating  and  testing  the  key  controls 
over  the  recognition  of  freight  revenue  and  receivable, 
in particular relating to estimation of freight revenue for 
vessel voyages in progress at the year end.

• 

• 

• 

Agreeing  the  departure  dates  and  arrival  dates  of  vessel 
voyages  in  progress  at  year  end  in  the  operation  system 
to the sailing schedules, on a sample basis.

Agreeing  the  total  freight  revenue  by  vessel  voyages  in 
the operation system to the accounting records.

Recomputing  the  estimated  freight  revenue  of  vessel 
voyages  which  were  in  progress  as  at  year  end  with 
reference  to  the  departure  dates  and  arrival  dates  on  a 
sample basis.

We  found  that  management’s  estimation  of  freight  revenue 
for  vessel  voyages  in  progress  at  year  end  are  supportable  by 
available evidence.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

93

 
Independent Auditor’s Report 

Key Audit Matter

Provision for operating costs

Refer to notes 4(c) and 38 to the consolidated financial 
statements.

As  at  31st  December  2016,  included  in  the  accrued 
expenses  of  US$354.2  million  (2015:  US$377.6  million) 
was a provision for operating costs for container transport 
operation which mainly comprise cargo, vessel and voyage 
costs,  equipment  and  repositioning  costs  and  terminal 
operating costs.

As  it  takes  several  months  to  finalise  certain  costs  with 
suppliers  subsequent  to  the  receipt  of  such  services, 
management  makes  a  provision  for  such  operating  costs 
based  on  known  services  received,  pattern  of  historical 
cost and estimated vendor tariffs.

The  estimation  of  provision  for  operating  costs  involves 
significant  judgement  taking  into  account  a  number  of 
factors, such as pattern of historical cost and the estimated 
vendor  tariff.  Changes  in  estimation  could  result  in 
material changes to the provision for operating costs.

How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Our procedures in relation to management’s estimation of the 
provision for operating costs included:

•  Understanding,  evaluating  and  testing  the  information 
technology general control environment of the operation 
system  used  to  record  the  operating  costs  and  cost 
provisioning.

•  Understanding,  evaluating  and  testing  the  key  controls 
over the operating costs, cost provisioning and accounts 
payable cycle, in particular relating to the accuracy of the 
vendor tariffs in the operation system.

•  Understanding and reperforming the computation of the 

provision for operating costs, on a sample basis.

• 

• 

Reviewing  and  discussing  monthly  trend  analysis  for 
provision for operating costs with management to assess 
the sufficiency of provisions made.

Checking  the  subsequent  utilisation  of  provision  for 
operating  costs  to  evaluate  the  sufficiency  of  provision 
made.

We  found  that  the  judgement  involved  in  making  the 
provision for operating costs was supportable by the available 
evidence.

94

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
Independent Auditor’s Report 

Key Audit Matter

Impairment assessment on operating assets of container 
transport operation

How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Our  procedures  in  relation  to  management’s  impairment 
assessment included:

Refer to Note 4(d) and 16 to the consolidated financial 
statements.

•  Understanding and evaluating the appropriateness of the 
methodology  used  by  management  for  the  impairment 
assessment of Operating Assets.

As  at  31st  December  2016,  the  Group’s  container 
transport  operations  had  operating  assets  of  US$6,046.7 
million  (2015:  US$5,988.9  million)  including  container 
vessels,  assets  under  construction,  terminal  equipment, 
containers,  chassis  and  computer  software  (“Operating 
Assets”).  Given  the  loss  making  position  of  the  container 
transport  operation  and  the  uncertain  economic  outlook, 
management  performed  an  impairment  review  of 
Operating Assets as at 31st December 2016.

Management  considers  the  container  transport  operation 
to  be  a  single  cash  generating  unit  and  has  calculated  the 
recoverable  amount  by  using  value  in  use  calculations 
which  require  the  use  of  assumptions  such  as  estimated 
freight  revenue,  estimated  margin  on  earnings  before 
interest  and  tax,  estimated  operating  costs,  growth  rate 
and  discount  rate,  on  the  projections  of  cash  inflows 
from  the  continuing  use  of  the  Operating  Assets.  The 
recoverable amount so calculated supports no impairment 
of the Operating Assets.

The  impairment  assessment  on  the  Operating  Assets 
involves  significant  judgement  to  determine  the 
recoverable  amount  of  the  Operating  Assets.  Changes  in 
the  assumptions  could  result  in  material  changes  to  the 
recoverable amount of the Operating Assets.

• 

• 

• 

• 

Challenging  the  assumptions  used  by  comparing 
management’s  estimates  such  as  estimated  freight 
revenue  and  estimated  margin  on  earnings  before 
interest  and  tax  and  estimated  charter  hire  expenses  to 
historical  results  and  published  external  analysts  report, 
if applicable.

Involv ing  our  inter na l  va lu at ion  sp e ci a lists  to 
evaluate  the  discount  rate  used  by  comparing  to  our 
independently formed market expectations.

Agreeing the forecast financial performance to approved 
management budgets.

Performing  sensitivity  analysis  on  the  key  assumptions 
used  in  the  assessment  to  assess  the  potential  impact  of 
possible changes in these assumptions.

We  found  the  judgements  and  assumptions  used  in  the 
impairment  assessment  to  be  reasonable  based  on  the 
available evidence.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

95

 
Independent Auditor’s Report 

Other Information

The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises all of the information 
included in the annual report other than the consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.

Our  opinion  on  the  consolidated  financial  statements  does  not  cover  the  other  information  and  we  do  not  express  any  form  of 
assurance conclusion thereon.

In  connection  with  our  audit  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements,  our  responsibility  is  to  read  the  other  information  and, 
in  doing  so,  consider  whether  the  other  information  is  materially  inconsistent  with  the  consolidated  financial  statements  or  our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.

If,  based  on  the  work  we  have  performed,  we  conclude  that  there  is  a  material  misstatement  of  this  other  information,  we  are 
required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of Directors and the Audit Committee for the Consolidated Financial Statements

The  directors  of  the  Company  are  responsible  for  the  preparation  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements  that  give  a  true  and 
fair  view  in  accordance  with  HKFRSs  issued  by  the  HKICPA  and  the  disclosure  requirements  of  the  Hong  Kong  Companies 
Ordinance, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial 
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements

Our  objectives  are  to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether  the  consolidated  financial  statements  as  a  whole  are  free  from 
material  misstatement,  whether  due  to  fraud  or  error,  and  to  issue  an  auditor’s  report  that  includes  our  opinion.  We  report  our 
opinion solely to you, as a body, in accordance with Section 90 of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda and for no other purpose. 
We  do  not  assume  responsibility  towards  or  accept  liability  to  any  other  person  for  the  contents  of  this  report.  Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with HKSAs will always detect 
a  material  misstatement  when  it  exists.  Misstatements  can  arise  from  fraud  or  error  and  are  considered  material  if,  individually 
or  in  the  aggregate,  they  could  reasonably  be  expected  to  influence  the  economic  decisions  of  users  taken  on  the  basis  of  these 
consolidated financial statements.

As  part  of  an  audit  in  accordance  with  HKSAs,  we  exercise  professional  judgement  and  maintain  professional  scepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:

• 

Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control.

•  Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in 
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.

• 

Evaluate  the  appropriateness  of  accounting  policies  used  and  the  reasonableness  of  accounting  estimates  and  related 
disclosures made by the directors.

96

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
Independent Auditor’s Report 

• 

• 

Conclude  on  the  appropriateness  of  the  directors’  use  of  the  going  concern  basis  of  accounting  and,  based  on  the  audit 
evidence  obtained,  whether  a  material  uncertainty  exists  related  to  events  or  conditions  that  may  cast  significant  doubt  on 
the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.

Evaluate  the  overall  presentation,  structure  and  content  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements,  including  the  disclosures, 
and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves 
fair presentation.

•  Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within 
the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision 
and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We  communicate  with  the  Audit  Committee  regarding,  among  other  matters,  the  planned  scope  and  timing  of  the  audit  and 
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We  also  provide  the  Audit  Committee  with  a  statement  that  we  have  complied  with  relevant  ethical  requirements  regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.

From  the  matters  communicated  with  the  Audit  Committee,  we  determine  those  matters  that  were  of  most  significance  in  the 
audit  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of  the  current  period  and  are  therefore  the  key  audit  matters.  We  describe  these 
matters  in  our  auditor’s  report  unless  law  or  regulation  precludes  public  disclosure  about  the  matter  or  when,  in  extremely  rare 
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is Cheng Kam Fung.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
Certified Public Accountants

Hong Kong, 10th March 2017

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

97

 
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account

For the year ended 31st December 2016

Consolidated Profit and Loss Account

For the year ended 31st December 2016

US$’000

Revenue
Operating costs

Gross profit
Fair value gain from an investment property
Other operating income
Business and administrative expenses
Other (losses)/gains, net

Operating (loss)/profit
Finance costs
Share of profits of joint ventures
Share of profits of associated companies

(Loss)/profit before taxation
Taxation

(Loss)/profit for the year

(Loss)/profit attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company

(Loss)/earnings per ordinary share (US cents)
Basic and diluted

Note

5
6

17
7

8

11
12
19
20

13

14

2016

5,297,693
(5,032,272)

2015

5,953,444
(5,262,429)

265,421
18,522
72,456
(468,897)
(25,729)

(138,227)
(79,393)
5,135
12,818

(199,667)
(19,554)

(219,221)

691,015
19,545
74,166
(441,917)
10,259

353,068
(63,642)
4,168
13,614

307,208
(23,357)

283,851

(219,221)

283,851

(35.0)

45.4

98

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

For the year ended 31st December 2016

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

For the year ended 31st December 2016

US$’000

(Loss)/profit for the year

Other comprehensive income:
Item that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurement (losses)/gains on defined benefit schemes

Items that have been reclassified or may be reclassified  

subsequently to profit or loss:
Available-for-sale financial assets

– Change in fair value
– Release of assets revaluation reserve upon disposal
– Release of assets revaluation reserve upon impairment

Currency translation adjustments

– Foreign subsidiaries
– Associated companies
– Joint ventures

Total items that have been reclassified or may be 

reclassified subsequently to profit or loss

Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax

Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year

Total comprehensive (loss)/income attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company

2016

(219,221)

2015

283,851

(20,118)

6,048

(28,012)
4,753
13,201

(6,880)
(9,176)
(1,167)

(27,281)

(47,399)

(266,620)

(28,464)
–
–

(8,068)
(8,620)
(410)

(45,562)

(39,514)

244,337

(266,620)

244,337

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

99

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet

As at 31st December 2016

Consolidated Balance Sheet

As at 31st December 2016

US$’000

ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
Investment property
Prepayments of lease premiums
Joint ventures
Associated companies
Intangible assets
Deferred taxation assets
Pension and retirement assets
Derivative financial instruments
Restricted bank balances
Available-for-sale financial assets
Held-to-maturity investments
Other non-current assets

Current assets
Inventories
Debtors and prepayments
Amount due from an associated company
Amounts due from joint ventures
Held-to-maturity investments
Portfolio investments
Derivative financial instruments
Tax recoverable
Restricted bank balances
Cash and bank balances

Total assets

EQUITY
Equity holders
Share capital
Reserves

Total equity

100

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Note

2016

2015

16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
33
24
25
26
27

28
29
30
31
26
32
33

24
34

35
36

6,076,673
220,000
7,818
11,225
137,527
60,143
4,227
–
–
403
93,148
195,296
32,091

6,838,551

84,472
474,158
2,854
431
41,621
322,927
2,097
10,780
1,023
1,625,676

2,566,039

9,404,590

62,579
4,456,707

4,519,286

6,020,744
200,000
8,462
8,887
145,249
55,646
3,765
7,855
1,507
980
127,998
217,004
16,635

6,814,732

72,481
499,409
–
2,871
19,074
295,894
147
10,942
443
2,015,581

2,916,842

9,731,574

62,579
4,734,931

4,797,510

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet

As at 31st December 2016

US$’000

LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings
Deferred taxation liabilities
Pension and retirement liabilities

Current liabilities
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to joint ventures
Borrowings
Derivative financial instruments
Current taxation

Total liabilities

Total equity and liabilities

C C Tung
Alan Tung
Directors

Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31st December 2016

Note

2016

2015

37
22
23

38
39
37
33

3,489,272
71,337
11,857

3,572,466

695,897
10,712
601,465
–
4,764

1,312,838

4,885,304

9,404,590

3,663,100
62,041
109

3,725,250

750,378
11,037
438,619
5,316
3,464

1,208,814

4,934,064

9,731,574

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

101

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement

For the year ended 31st December 2016

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement

For the year ended 31st December 2016

US$’000

Note

2016

2015

Cash flows from operating activities

Operating (loss)/profit
Interest income
Dividend income and distribution
Depreciation and amortisation
Impairment on available-for-sale financial assets
Fair value gain from assets and liabilities
Net loss/(gain) on disposal of non-current assets

Operating profit before working capital changes
(Increase)/decrease in inventories
Decrease in debtors and prepayments
Decrease in creditors and accruals
Change in net pension liabilities/assets
Settlement of derivative financial instruments

Cash generated from operations
Interest and financing charges paid
Hong Kong profits tax refunded/(paid)
Overseas taxes paid

Net cash from operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities

Sale and redemption on maturity of non-current assets
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of other non-current assets
Increase in portfolio investments
Net change in amounts due to joint ventures
Decrease/(increase) in restricted bank balances and bank deposits 

maturing more than three months

Interest received
Dividends and distribution received from investments
Dividends received from joint ventures and associated companies

Net cash from/(used in) investing activities

Cash flows from financing activities

Drawdown of loans
Repayment of loans
Capital element of finance lease rental payments
Dividend paid to equity holders of the Company

Net cash used in financing activities

Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

41(b)

(138,227)
(39,580)
(30,016)
408,874
13,201
(28,791)
6,171

191,632
(11,991)
26,118
(56,580)
(688)
852

149,343
(72,343)
334
(8,863)

68,471

41,128
(251,822)
(59,181)
(23,375)
2,115

277,596
40,036
15,766
10,140

52,403

559,289
(658,098)
(129,649)
(11,604)

(240,062)

(119,188)
1,737,511
6,896

1,625,219

353,068
(38,219)
(31,696)
319,613
–
(4,332)
(221)

598,213
56,171
75,258
(189,926)
(2,415)
(1,070)

536,231
(62,492)
(60)
(15,398)

458,281

132,825
(366,189)
(25,870)
(83,419)
3,660

(1,807)
38,129
14,828
13,723

(274,120)

910,985
(991,287)
(224,394)
(81,579)

(386,275)

(202,114)
1,942,822
(3,197)

1,737,511

102

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

For the year ended 31st December 2016

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

For the year ended 31st December 2016

US$’000

At 31st December 2014
Total comprehensive income for the year
Transactions with owners
2014 final dividend
2015 interim dividend

At 31st December 2015
Total comprehensive loss for the year
Transactions with owners
2015 final dividend

At 31st December 2016

Equity holders

Share capital

62,579
–

–
–

62,579
–

Reserves

4,572,173
244,337

(21,400)
(60,179)

4,734,931
(266,620)

Total

4,634,752
244,337

(21,400)
(60,179)

4,797,510
(266,620)

–

(11,604)

(11,604)

62,579

4,456,707

4,519,286

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

103

 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

1.  GENERAL INFORMATION

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (“the  Company”)  is  a  limited  liability  company  incorporated  in  Bermuda.  The 
address  of  its  registered  office  is  Clarendon  House,  2  Church  Street,  Hamilton  HM11,  Bermuda  and  the  principal  office  is 
33rd floor, Harbour Centre, No. 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong.

The  principal  activity  of  the  Company  is  investment  holding  and  the  activities  of  its  principal  subsidiaries,  associated 
companies and joint ventures are set out on pages 156 to 163 of the consolidated financial statements.

The Company has its shares listed on the Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.

The ultimate parent company of the Group is Tung Holdings (Trustee) Inc., incorporated in the Republic of Liberia.

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The  significant  accounting  policies  applied  in  the  preparation  of  these  consolidated  financial  statements  are  set  out  below. 
These policies have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless otherwise stated.

2.1  Basis of preparation

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards 
(“HKFRS”). They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investment 
property, available-for-sale financial assets, portfolio investments and derivative financial instruments which are carried 
at fair value.

The  preparation  of  consolidated  financial  statements  in  conformity  with  HKFRS  requires  the  use  of  certain  critical 
accounting  estimates.  It  also  requires  management  to  exercise  its  judgement  in  the  process  of  applying  the  Group’s 
accounting  policies.  The  areas  involving  a  higher  degree  of  judgement  or  complexity,  or  areas  where  assumptions  and 
estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 4.

The adoption of revised HKFRS

In 2016, the Group adopted the following amendments and improvements to existing HKFRS below, which are relevant 
to its operations.

Amendments and improvements to existing standards

HKFRSs
HKAS 1 Amendments
HKAS 16 and HKAS 38 Amendments

Annual Improvements 2012-2014 Reporting Cycle
Disclosure Initiative
Classification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation

There are no other new standards, amendments, interpretations and improvements that are effective for the first time in 
2016 that would have a material impact on the Group.

New standards and amendments to existing standards that are relevant but not yet effective to the Group

New standards and amendments to existing standards

HKAS 7 Amendments
HKAS 12 Amendments
HKFRS 9
HKFRS 15
HKFRS 16

Statement of Cash Flows
Income Taxes
Financial Instruments
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Leases

Effective for 
accounting periods 
beginning on or after

1st January 2017
1st January 2017
1st January 2018
1st January 2018
1st January 2019

104

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

The  adoption  of  the  above  new  standards  and  amendments  is  not  expected  to  have  a  significant  effect  on  the 
consolidated financial statements of the Group, except those set out below:

HKFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers

HKFRS  15  replaces  HKAS  11  which  covers  construction  contracts  and  HKAS  18  which  covers  contracts  for  goods 
and  services  for  revenue  recognition.  It  introduces  the  concept  of  recognising  revenue  over  time  if  the  performance 
obligation  is  satisfied  over  time.  That  is,  the  customer  simultaneously  receives  and  consumes  the  benefits  provided. 
Management has performed a preliminary assessment on HKFRS 15 and considers there is no significant impact on the 
Group’s consolidated financial statements.

HKFRS 16 Leases

HKFRS 16 will affect primarily the accounting for Group’s operating leases. Under HKFRS 16, an asset (the right to use 
the leased item) and a financial liability to pay rentals are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet. Management is 
in the process of assessing to what extent the operating lease commitments as disclosed in note 40(b) will result in the 
recognition of an asset and a liability for future payments and how this will affect the Group’s results and classification 
of cash flows.

2.2  Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 
31st December.

The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s attributable share of post-acquisition results and reserves 
of its joint ventures and associated companies.

(a)  Subsidiaries

A subsidiary is an entity (including a structured entity) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an 
entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has 
the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on 
which control is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.

The  Group  uses  the  acquisition  method  of  accounting  to  account  for  business  combinations.  The  consideration 
transferred  for  the  acquisition  of  a  subsidiary  is  the  fair  values  of  the  assets  transferred,  the  liabilities  incurred 
and  the  equity  interests  issued  by  the  Group.  The  consideration  transferred  includes  the  fair  value  of  any  asset 
or  liability  resulting  from  a  contingent  consideration  arrangement.  Acquisition-related  costs  are  expensed  as 
incurred.  Identifiable  assets  acquired  and  liabilities  and  contingent  liabilities  assumed  in  a  business  combination 
are  measured  initially  at  their  fair  values  at  the  acquisition  date.  The  Group  recognises  any  non-controlling 
interest  in  the  acquiree  on  an  acquisition-by-acquisition  basis.  Non-controlling  interests  in  the  acquiree  that  are 
present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets in the event 
of  liquidation  are  measured  at  either  fair  value  or  the  present  ownership  interests’  proportionate  share  in  the 
recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. All other components of non-controlling interests are 
measured at their acquisition date fair value, unless another measurement basis is required by HKFRS.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

105

 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.2  Consolidation (Continued)

(a)  Subsidiaries (Continued)

The  excess  of  the  consideration  transferred,  the  amount  of  any  non-controlling  interest  in  the  acquiree  and  the 
acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net 
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised 
and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the 
case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Inter-company  transactions,  balances  and  unrealised  gains  on  transactions  between  group  companies  are 
eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the 
asset transferred.

(b)  Transactions with non-controlling interests

Transactions  with  non-controlling  interests  that  do  not  result  in  a  loss  of  control  are  accounted  for  as  equity 
transactions – that is, as transactions with the owners of the subsidiary in their capacity as owners. The difference 
between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary 
is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.

When  the  Group  ceases  to  have  control,  any  retained  interest  in  the  entity  is  remeasured  to  its  fair  value,  with 
the  change  in  carrying  amount  recognised  in  profit  or  loss.  The  fair  value  is  the  initial  carrying  amount  for  the 
purposes  of  subsequent  accounting  for  the  retained  interest  as  an  associate,  joint  venture  or  financial  asset.  In 
addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted 
for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.

(c)  Joint arrangements

Joint  arrangements  are  classified  as  either  joint  operations  or  joint  ventures  depending  on  the  contractual  rights 
and obligations of each investor. The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them 
to be joint ventures. Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.

Under  the  equity  method  of  accounting,  interests  in  joint  ventures  are  initially  recognised  at  cost  and  adjusted 
thereafter  to  recognise  the  Group’s  share  of  the  post-acquisition  profits  or  losses  and  movements  in  other 
comprehensive  income.  When  the  Group’s  share  of  losses  in  a  joint  venture  equals  or  exceeds  its  interests  in  the 
joint ventures (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment 
in  the  joint  ventures),  the  Group  does  not  recognise  further  losses,  unless  it  has  incurred  obligations  or  made 
payments on behalf of the joint ventures.

Unrealised  gains  on  transactions  between  the  Group  and  its  joint  ventures  are  eliminated  to  the  extent  of  the 
Group’s interest in the joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence 
of an impairment of the asset transferred.

106

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.2  Consolidation (Continued)

(d)  Associated companies

Associated  companies  are  all  entities  over  which  the  Group  has  significant  influence  but  not  control,  generally 
accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associated companies 
are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investments 
in associated companies includes goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) identified on acquisition.

If  the  ownership  interest  in  an  associate  is  reduced  but  significant  influence  is  retained,  only  a  proportionate 
share of the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where 
appropriate.

The Group’s share of its associated companies’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the consolidated 
profit  and  loss  account,  and  its  share  of  post-acquisition  movements  in  reserves  is  recognised  in  reserves.  The 
cumulative  post-acquisition  movements  are  adjusted  against  the  carrying  amount  of  the  investment.  When  the 
Group’s share of losses in an associated company equals or exceeds its interest in the associated company, including 
any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or 
made payments on behalf of the associated company.

Profits and losses resulting from upstream and downstream transactions between the Group and its associate are 
recognised in the Group’s financial statements only to the extent of unrelated investor’s interests in the associates. 
Unrealised  losses  are  also  eliminated  unless  the  transaction  provides  evidence  of  an  impairment  of  the  asset 
transferred. Accounting policies of associated companies have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency 
with the policies adopted by the Group.

2.3  Property, plant and equipment

All  property, plant  and equipment  are stated at  historical cost less  depreciation and impairment losses. Historical cost 
includes  expenditure  that  is  directly  attributable  to  the  acquisition  of  the  items.  Subsequent  costs  are  included  in  the 
asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic 
benefits  associated  with  the  item  will  flow  to  the  Group  and  the  cost  of  the  item  can  be  measured  reliably.  All  other 
repairs  and  maintenance  are  charged  to  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  during  the  financial  period  in  which 
they are incurred.

No depreciation is provided for assets under construction and freehold land.

Vehicles, computer and other equipment include terminal equipment and improvements.

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their 
residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows:

Container vessels
Containers
Chassis
Terminal equipment and improvement
Freehold buildings
Leasehold buildings
Leasehold improvement
Furniture, vehicles, computer and other equipment

25 years
5 to 12 years
10 to 12 years
10 to 15 years
Not exceeding 75 years
Over period of the lease
Over period of the lease
3 to 15 years

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

107

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.3  Property, plant and equipment (Continued)

The  residual  values  of  the  assets  and  their  useful  lives  are  reviewed  and  adjusted  if  appropriate,  at  each  balance  sheet 
date.

The carrying amount of an asset is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount of the 
asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.

Gains  and  losses  on  disposals  are  determined  as  the  difference  between  the  net  disposal  proceeds  and  the  carrying 
amounts of the assets and are dealt with in the consolidated profit and loss account.

2.4  Investment property

Property  that  is  held  for  long-tem  rental  yields  or  for  capital  appreciation  or  both,  and  that  is  not  occupied  by  the 
companies  in  the  Group,  is  classified  as  investment  property.  Investment  property  comprises  freehold  land,  land  held 
under  operating  leases  and  buildings  held  under  finance  leases.  Land  held  under  operating  leases  are  classified  and 
accounted for as investment property when the rest of the definition of investment property is met. The operating lease 
is accounted for as if it were a finance lease.

Investment  property  is  initially  measured  at  cost,  including  related  transaction  costs  and  where  applicable  borrowing 
costs. After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair value. Fair value is based on valuation carried out 
semi-annually by an independent external valuer. Changes in fair values are recognised in the consolidated profit and 
loss account.

2.5  Vessel repairs and surveys

Upon  acquisition  of  a  vessel,  the  components  of  the  vessel  which  are  required  to  be  replaced  at  the  next  dry-docking 
are  identified  and  their  costs  are  depreciated  over  the  period  to  the  next  estimated  dry-docking  date,  usually  ranging 
from three to five years. Costs incurred on subsequent dry-docking of vessels are capitalised and depreciated over the 
period to the next estimated dry-docking date. When significant dry-docking costs incurred prior to the expiry of the 
depreciation period, the remaining costs of the previous dry-docking are written off immediately.

2.6  Intangible assets

(a)  Goodwill

Goodwill  represents  the  excess  of  the  cost  of  an  acquisition  over  the  fair  value  of  the  Group’s  share  of  the 
net  identifiable  assets  of  the  acquired  subsidiary,  associated  company  or  joint  ventures  at  the  effective  date  of 
acquisition.

Goodwill on acquisition of a foreign operation is treated as an asset of the foreign operation.

Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiaries is retained at the carrying amount as an intangible asset. Goodwill 
arising  on  acquisition  of  associated  companies  and  joint  ventures  is  included  within  investments  in  associated 
companies  and  joint  ventures  respectively  and  is  tested  for  impairment  as  part  of  overall  balance.  Separately 
recognised  goodwill  is  subject  to  impairment  review  annually  and  when  there  are  indications  that  the  carrying 
value  may  not  be  recoverable.  If  the  cost  of  acquisition  is  less  than  the  fair  value  of  the  Group’s  share  of  the  net 
identifiable assets of the acquired company, the difference is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

108

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.6  Intangible assets (Continued)

(b)  Computer software

Costs  associated  with  maintaining  computer  software  programmes  are  recognised  as  an  expense  as  incurred. 
Costs  that  are  directly  associated  with  the  production  of  identifiable  and  unique  software  products  controlled  by 
the  Group,  and  that  will  probably  generate  economic  benefits  exceeding  costs  beyond  one  year,  are  recognised 
as  intangible  assets.  Direct  costs  include  the  software  development  employee  costs  and  an  appropriate  portion  of 
relevant overheads.

Computer  software  costs  recognised  as  assets  are  stated  at  cost  less  accumulated  amortisation.  Amortisation  is 
calculated on the straight-line basis over their estimated useful life of five years.

2.7  Impairment of investments in subsidiaries and non-financial assets

Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation, and are at least tested annually for impairment. 
Assets  that  are  subject  to  amortisation  are  reviewed  for  impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which 
the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value 
of an asset less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest 
levels  for  which  there  are  separately  identifiable  cash  flows  (cash  generating  units).  Non-financial  assets  other  than 
goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.

Impairment  testing  of  the  investments  in  subsidiaries  is  required  upon  receiving  dividends  from  these  investments  if 
the dividend exceeds the total comprehensive income of the subsidiary in the period the dividend is declared or if the 
carrying  amount  of  the  investment  in  the  separate  account  exceeds  the  carrying  amount  in  the  consolidated  financial 
statements of the investee’s net assets including goodwill.

2.8  Investments

The  Group  classifies  its  investments  into  the  following  categories:  portfolio  investments,  loans  and  receivables,  held-
to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which the 
investments  were  acquired.  Management  determines  the  classification  of  its  investments  at  initial  recognition  and  re-
evaluates this designation at every reporting date.

(a)  Portfolio investments

Portfolio investments include financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through profit or 
loss at inception. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in 
the short term or if so designated by management. Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are 
either held for trading or are expected to be realised within 12 months from the balance sheet date.

(b)  Loans and receivables

Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted 
in an active market. They arise when the Group provides money or services directly to a debtor with no intention 
of trading the receivable. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the 
balance sheet date; which are classified as non-current assets.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

109

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.8  Investments (Continued)

(c)  Held-to-maturity investments

Held-to-maturity  investments  are  non-derivative  financial  assets  with  fixed  or  determinable  payments  and  fixed 
maturities  that  the  Group’s  management  has  the  positive  intention  and  ability  to  hold  to  maturity.  If  the  Group 
were  to  sell  other  than  an  insignificant  amount  of  held-to-maturity  investments,  the  whole  category  would  be 
reclassified as available-for-sale financial assets. Held-to-maturity investments are included in non-current assets, 
except  for  those  with  maturities  less  than  12  months  from  the  balance  sheet  date;  which  are  classified  as  current 
assets.

(d)  Available-for-sale financial assets

Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in 
any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the 
investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.

Interest  on  available-for-sale  financial  assets  calculated  using  the  effective  interest  method  is  recognised  in  the 
profit and loss account as part of other income. Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised 
in the profit and loss account as part of “other operating income” when the Group’s right to receive payments is 
established.

(e)  Recognition and measurement

Regular  way  purchases  and  sales  of  investments  are  recognised  on  trade-date  –  the  date  on  which  the  Group 
commits  to  purchase  or  sell  the  asset.  Investments  are  initially  recognised  at  fair  value  plus  transaction  costs  for 
all  financial  assets  not  carried  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss.  Investments  are  derecognised  when  the  rights 
to  receive  cash  flows  from  the  investments  have  expired  or  have  been  transferred  and  the  Group  has  transferred 
substantially  all  risks  and  rewards  of  ownership.  Available-for-sale  financial  assets  and  portfolio  investments  are 
subsequently carried at fair value. Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method less impairment losses, if any.

Realised  and  unrealised  gains  and  losses  arising  from  changes  in  the  fair  value  of  the  portfolio  investments  are 
included in the consolidated profit and loss account in the period in which they arise. Unrealised gains and losses 
arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets are 
recognised in other comprehensive income. When securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets are sold 
or  impaired,  the  accumulated  fair  value  adjustments  are  included  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  as 
gains and losses from available-for-sale financial assets.

The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices. If the market for a financial asset is not active 
(and for unlisted securities), the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques. These include the use 
of recent arm’s length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash 
flow analysis, and option pricing models refined to reflect the issuer’s specific circumstances.

The  Group  may  choose  to  reclassify  a  non-derivative  trading  financial  asset  out  of  the  portfolio  investments 
category  if  the  financial  asset  is  no  longer  held  for  the  purpose  of  selling  it  in  the  near  term.  Financial  assets 
other  than  loans  and  receivables  are  permitted  to  be  reclassified  out  of  the  held  for  trading  category  only  in  rare 
circumstances arising from a single event that is unusual and highly unlikely to recur in the near term. In addition, 
the  Group  may  choose  to  reclassify  financial  assets  that  would  meet  the  definition  of  loans  and  receivables  or 
held-to-maturity investments out of the portfolio investments or available-for-sale financial assets categories if the 
Group has the intention and ability to hold these financial assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity at the 
date of reclassification.

110

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.8  Investments (Continued)

(e)  Recognition and measurement (Continued)

Reclassifications  are  made  at  fair  value  as  of  the  reclassification  date.  Fair  value  becomes  the  new  cost  or 
amortised cost as applicable, and no reversals of fair value gains or losses recorded before reclassification date are 
subsequently  made.  Effective  interest  rates  for  financial  assets  reclassified  to  loans  and  receivables  and  held-to-
maturity categories are determined at the reclassification date. Further increases in estimates of cash flows adjust 
effective interest rates prospectively.

The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group 
of  financial  assets  is  impaired.  In  the  case  of  equity  securities  classified  as  available-for-sale  financial  assets,  a 
significant  or  prolonged  decline  in  the  fair  value  of  the  securities  below  its  cost  is  considered  in  determining 
whether  the  securities  are  impaired.  If  any  such  evidence  exists  for  available-for-sale  financial  assets,  the 
cumulative  loss  measured  as  the  difference  between  the  acquisition  cost  and  the  current  fair  value,  less  any 
impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account is removed 
from  equity  and  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account.  Impairment  losses  recognised  in  the 
consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  on  equity  instruments  are  not  reversed  through  the  consolidated  profit  and 
loss account.

Impairment  on  held-to-maturity  investments  is  considered  at  both  an  individual  and  collective  level.  The 
individual  impairment  allowance  is  measured  as  the  difference  between  the  asset’s  carrying  amount  and  the 
present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at asset’s original effective interest rate, where the effect of 
discounting is material.

For loans and receivables category, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount  and  the  present  value  of  estimated  future  cash  flows  (excluding  future  credit  losses  that  have  not  been 
incurred)  discounted  at  the  financial  asset’s  original  effective  interest  rate.  The  carrying  amount  of  the  asset  is 
reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account. If a loan or held-to-
maturity investment has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current 
effective interest rate determined under the contract. As a practical expedient, the Group may measure impairment 
on the basis of an instrument’s fair value using an observable market price.

(f)  Offsetting financial instruments

Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally 
enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the 
asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events 
and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of 
the company or the counterparty.

2.9  Inventories

Inventories mainly comprise bunkers and consumable stores. Cost is calculated on weighted average basis. Inventories 
are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

111

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.10 Debtors

Debtors  are  recognised  initially  at  fair  value  and  subsequently  measured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective  interest 
method,  less  provision  for  impairment.  A  provision  for  impairment  of  debtors  is  established  when  there  is  objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. The 
amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future 
cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The amount of the provision is recognised in the consolidated profit 
and loss account.

If collection of debtors is expected in one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they 
are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets.

2.11 Cash and cash equivalents

Cash  and  cash  equivalents  include  cash  in  hand,  deposits  held  at  call  with  banks  with  original  maturities  of  three 
months  or  less  and  net  of  bank  overdrafts.  Bank  overdrafts  are  shown  within  borrowings  in  current  liabilities  on  the 
consolidated balance sheet.

2.12 Share capital

Ordinary shares are classified as equity.

Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the 
proceeds.

2.13 Creditors

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business 
from suppliers. Creditors are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal 
operating cycle of the business if longer. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.

Trade  creditors  are  recognised  initially  at  fair  value  and  subsequently  measured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective 
interest method.

2.14 Borrowings

Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at 
amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in 
the consolidated profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.

Borrowings  are  classified  as  current  liabilities  unless  the  Group  has  an  unconditional  right  to  defer  settlement  of  the 
liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.

Fees  paid  on  the  establishment  of  loan  facilities  are  recognised  as  transaction  costs  of  the  loan  to  the  extent  that  it 
is  probable  that  some  or  all  of  the  facility  will  be  drawn  down.  In  this  case,  the  fee  is  deferred  until  the  draw-down 
occurs. To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is 
capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.

112

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.15 Current and deferred taxation

The tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss 
account, except to the extent that it relates to item recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In 
this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.

The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet  date  in  the  countries  where  the  Company’s  subsidiaries,  joint  ventures  and  associated  companies  operate  and 
generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in 
which  applicable  tax  regulation  is  subject  to  interpretation.  It  establishes  provisions  where  appropriate  on  the  basis  of 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.

Deferred taxation is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases 
of  assets  and  liabilities  and  their  carrying  amounts  in  the  consolidated  financial  statements.  However,  if  the  deferred 
taxation arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at 
the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred taxation 
is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected 
to apply when the related deferred taxation asset is realised or the deferred taxation liability is settled.

Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be utilised.

Deferred taxation is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associated companies and 
joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is 
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities related to income taxes levied by the 
same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the 
balances on a net basis.

2.16 Employee benefits

(a)  Pension obligations

The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension and retirement benefit schemes 
in  the  main  countries  in  which  the  Group  operates.  These  schemes  are  generally  funded  by  payments  from 
employees and by relevant group companies, taking into account of the recommendations of independent qualified 
actuaries where required.

A  defined  benefit  plan  is  a  pension  plan  that  is  not  a  defined  contribution  plan.  Typically  defined  benefit  plans 
define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more 
factors such as age, years of service and compensation.

The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit 
obligation  is  calculated  annually  by  independent  actuaries  using  the  projected  expected  benefit  payments.  The 
present  value  of  the  defined  benefit  obligation  is  determined  by  discounting  the  estimated  future  cash  outflows 
using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will 
be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. In countries 
where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

113

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.16 Employee benefits (Continued)

(a)  Pension obligations (Continued)

The  current  service  cost  of  the  defined  benefit  plan,  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  in 
employee benefit expense, except where included in the cost of an asset, reflects the increase in the defined benefit 
obligation results from employee service in the current year, benefit changes, curtailments and settlements.

Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the consolidated profit and loss account.

The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation 
and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in the consolidated profit and 
loss account.

Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or 
credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.

Contributions under the defined contribution schemes are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are 
due and are reduced by contributions forfeited by those employees who leave the scheme prior to vesting fully in 
the contributions. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in 
the future payments is available.

(b)  Bonus plans

The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses, based on a formula that takes into consideration the 
profit  attributable  to  the  Company’s  shareholders  after  certain  adjustments.  The  Group  recognises  a  provision 
where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.

(c)  Employee leave entitlements

Employee  entitlements  to  annual  leave  are  recognised  when  they  accrue  to  employees.  A  provision  is  made  for 
the estimated liability for annual leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the balance sheet date. 
Employee entitlements to sick leave and maternity leave are not recognised until the time of leave.

2.17 Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated.

Where  there  are  a  number  of  similar  obligations,  the  likelihood  that  an  outflow  will  be  required  in  settlement  is 
determined  by  considering  the  class  of  obligations  as  a  whole.  A  provision  is  recognised  even  if  the  likelihood  of  an 
outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.

2.18 Insurance contracts

The Company regards its financial guarantees provided to its subsidiaries as insurance contracts. The Company initially 
and subsequently assesses at each balance sheet date the liabilities under its insurance contracts using current estimates 
of future cash flows. Changes in carrying amount of these insurance liabilities are recognised in the consolidated profit 
and loss account.

114

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.19 Segment information

Operating  segments  are  reported  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the  internal  reporting  provided  to  the  chief  operating 
decision-maker.  The  chief  operating  decision-maker,  who  is  responsible  for  allocating  resources  and  assessing 
performance of the operating segments and making strategic decisions, has been identified as the Board of Directors.

2.20 Foreign currency translation

(a)  Functional and presentation currency

Items  included  in  the  financial  statements  of  each  of  the  Group’s  entities  are  measured  using  the  currency  of 
the  primary  economic  environment  in  which  the  entity  operates  (the  “functional  currency”).  The  consolidated 
financial  statements  are  presented  in  US  dollar,  which  is  the  Company’s  functional  currency  and  the  Group’s 
presentation currency.

(b)  Transactions and balances

Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and 
from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Changes  in  the  fair  value  of  debt  securities  denominated  in  foreign  currency  classified  as  available  for  sale  are 
analysed  between  translation  differences  resulting  from  changes  in  the  amortised  cost  of  the  security  and  other 
changes  in  the  carrying  amount  of  the  security.  Translation  differences  related  to  changes  in  amortised  cost  are 
recognised in profit or loss, and other changes in carrying amount are recognised in other comprehensive income.

Translation  differences  on  non-monetary  items,  such  as  equities  held  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss,  are 
reported  as  part  of  the  fair  value  gain  or  loss.  Translation  differences  on  non-monetary  items,  such  as  equities 
classified as available-for-sale financial assets, are included in the assets revaluation reserve in other comprehensive 
income.

(c)  Group companies

The results and financial position of all the group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary 
economy)  that  have  a  functional  currency  different  from  the  presentation  currency  are  translated  into  the 
presentation currency as follows:

(i)  assets  and  liabilities  for  each  balance  sheet  presented  are  translated  at  the  closing  rate  at  the  date  of  that 

balance sheet;

(ii) 

income  and  expenses  for  each  profit  and  loss  account  are  translated  at  average  exchange  rates  (unless 
this  average  is  not  a  reasonable  approximation  of  the  cumulative  effect  of  the  rates  prevailing  on  the 
transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rates prevailing on the dates of the 
transactions); and

(iii)  all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

115

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.20 Foreign currency translation (Continued)

(c)  Group companies (Continued)

On  consolidation,  exchange  differences  arising  from  the  translation  of  the  net  investment  in  foreign  entities, 
and  of  borrowings  and  other  currency  instruments  designated  as  hedges  of  such  investments,  are  taken  to  other 
comprehensive  income.  When  a  foreign  operation  is  sold,  such  exchange  differences  are  recognised  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account as part of the gain or loss on sale.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities 
of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.

2.21 Revenue recognition

Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of services, net of value-added 
tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. The Group recognises revenue when the amount 
of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity and when specific 
criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities as described below. Revenue is recognised as follows:

(a)  Freight revenues from the operation of the container transport are recognised on a percentage of completion basis, 

which is determined on the time proportion method of each individual vessel voyage.

(b)  Revenues from logistics business are recognised when services are rendered or on an accrual basis.

(c)  Revenues from the operation of container terminals and provision of other services are recognised when services 

are rendered or on an accrual basis.

(d)  Rental income under operating leases is recognised over the periods of the respective leases on a straight-line basis.

(e) 

Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.

(f)  Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.

2.22 Leases

(a)  Operating lease

Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified 
as  operating  leases.  Payments  made  under  operating  leases,  net  of  any  incentives  received  from  the  lessor,  are 
charged to the consolidated profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.

The up-front prepayments made for the leasehold land and land use rights are expensed in the consolidated profit 
and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease or where there is impairment, the impairment 
is expensed in the consolidated profit and loss account.

(b)  Finance lease

Leases of assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance 
leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased assets 
and  the  present  value  of  the  minimum  lease  payments.  Each  lease  payment  is  allocated  between  the  liability  and 
finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the balance outstanding. The corresponding rental obligations, 
net  of  finance  charges,  are  included  in  current  and  non-current  borrowings.  The  interest  element  of  the  finance 
cost  is  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  over  the  lease  period  so  as  to  produce  a  constant 
periodic rate of interest on the remaining balances of the liability for each period.

116

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.23 Borrowing costs

Borrowing  costs  are  expensed  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  in  the  period  in  which  they  are  incurred, 
except to the extent that they are capitalised as being directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production 
of a qualifying asset which necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale.

The  capitalisation  of  borrowing  costs  as  part  of  the  cost  of  a  qualifying  asset  commences  when  expenditure  for  the 
asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for its 
intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the 
activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.

2.24 Derivative financial instruments

Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and 
are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. Changes in fair value are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss 
account.

2.25 Dividend distribution

Dividend distribution to the Company’s equity holders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in 
the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s Directors/equity holders.

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

3.1  Financial risk factors

The  Group’s  activities  expose  it  to  a  variety  of  financial  risks:  foreign  exchange  risk,  price  risk,  credit  risk,  liquidity 
risk  and  cash  flow  and  fair  value  interest-rate  risk.  The  Group’s  overall  risk  management  policy  focuses  on  the 
unpredictability  of  financial  markets  and  seeks  to  minimise  potential  adverse  effects  on  the  Group’s  financial 
performance.

The  Group  has  regularly  monitored  current  and  expected  liquidity  requirements  against  the  cash  on  hand,  expected 
net  operating  cash  flow,  committed  facilities  and  its  compliance  with  loan  covenants,  to  ensure  the  Group’s  liquidity 
requirements can be met in the short and longer term.

The Group has paid ongoing attention on credit quality of counterparties, in particular major customers and financial 
institutions with relationship in terms of debt securities, derivatives and cash transactions. Credit qualities of respective 
counterparties are disclosed in respective notes to the consolidated financial statements.

(a)  Foreign exchange risk

The  Group  operates  internationally  and  is  exposed  to  foreign  exchange  risk  arising  from  various  currency 
exposures, primarily with respect to fluctuation in the exchange rates of foreign currencies to the US dollar. Foreign 
currency exposures are covered by forward contracts and options whenever appropriate.

Income and expenses from container transport and logistics activities are mainly denominated in US dollar and in 
various currencies, mainly including Euro, Canadian dollar, Japanese yen and Renminbi.

To  limit  currency  exposure,  the  US  dollar  based  activities  are  financed  primarily  by  loans  in  US  dollar.  With  all 
other  variables  held  constant,  an  average  change  in  the  US  dollar  exchange  rate  of  1%,  compared  with  all  other 
non-US  dollar  related  currencies,  has  a  positive/negative  effect  on  the  results  for  2016  of  approximately  US$3.9 
million (2015: US$5.0 million).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

117

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.1  Financial risk factors (Continued)

(b)  Price risk

The  container  transport  and  logistics  activities  are  sensitive  to  economic  fluctuations.  The  Group  is  exposed  to 
freight  rate  risk.  The  Group’s  revenue  will  increase/decrease  by  US$45.4  million  (2015:  US$50.9  million)  for  1% 
increase/reduction of the average container freight rates with all other variables held constant.

The  Group  is  exposed  to  bunker  price  risk  for  its  container  transport  and  logistics  activities.  Bunker  cost  is  one 
of the major cost components of container transport and logistics activities. To manage its price risk arising from 
bunker, the Group enters into bunker price derivative contracts. An increase in bunker price can only be partially 
compensated  through  freight  surcharge  bunker  price  adjustment.  With  all  other  variables  held  constant,  the 
operating cost will be increased by approximately US$1.8 million (2015: US$1.7 million) for one US dollar increase 
in bunker price per ton.

The  Group  is  also  exposed  to  equity/debt  securities  price  risk  because  of  investments  held  by  the  Group  include 
available-for-sale financial assets or portfolio investments which are accounted at fair value through profit or loss. 
To  manage  its  price  risk  arising  from  investments  in  equity/debt  securities,  the  Group  diversifies  its  portfolio.  If 
the prices of the respective quoted equity/debt securities of the Group had been increased/decreased by 1% and all 
other  variables  held  constant,  the  profit  after  taxation  and  the  other  comprehensive  income  of  the  Group  for  the 
year  ended  31st  December  2016  would  increase/decrease  by  US$3.2  million  (2015:  US$2.9  million)  and  US$0.6 
million (2015: US$0.8 million) respectively as a result of the changes in fair value of equity/debt securities under 
portfolio investments and equity securities classified as available-for-sale.

(c)  Credit risk

The  Group  has  no  significant  concentrations  of  credit  risk.  It  has  policies  in  place  to  ensure  that  services  are 
provided to customers with an appropriate credit history.

The  extent  of  the  Group’s  credit  exposure  is  represented  by  the  aggregate  balance  of  cash  and  bank  balances, 
portfolio investments, held-to-maturity investments, derivative financial instruments, restricted bank balances and 
trade receivables. The credit quality of these exposures is disclosed in relevant notes to the consolidated financial 
statements.

(d)  Liquidity risk

Prudent  liquidity  risk  management  implies  maintaining  sufficient  cash  and  cash  equivalents,  the  availability  of 
funding  through  an  adequate  amount  of  committed  credit  facilities  and  the  ability  to  close  out  market  positions. 
The  Group  aims  to  maintain  flexibility  in  funding  by  keeping  sufficient  cash  and  cash  equivalents  and  readily 
realisable liquid assets.

Surplus  cash  held  by  the  operating  entities  over  and  above  balance  required  for  working  capital  management  is 
transferred to the Group Treasury. Group Treasury invests surplus cash in interest bearing current accounts, time 
deposits,  money  market  deposits  and  marketable  securities,  choosing  instruments  with  appropriate  maturities 
or  sufficient  liquidity  to  provide  sufficient  head-room.  At  the  reporting  date,  the  Group  held  liquid  assets  of 
US$2,008.9  million  (2015:  US$2,387.4  million)  that  are  expected  to  readily  generate  cash  inflows  for  managing 
liquidity risk.

118

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.1  Financial risk factors (Continued)

(d)  Liquidity risk (Continued)

The  table  below  analyses  the  Group’s  non-derivative  financial  liabilities  and  net-settled  derivative  financial 
liabilities  into  relevant  maturity  groupings  based  on  the  remaining  period  at  the  balance  sheet  date  to  the 
contractual  maturity  date.  The  amounts  disclosed  in  the  table  are  the  contractual  undiscounted  cash  flows. 
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.

US$’000

At 31st December 2016
Borrowings
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to joint ventures

At 31st December 2015
Borrowings
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to joint ventures
Derivative financial instruments

Less than
1 year

Between 1
and 2 years

Between 2
and 5 years

695,212
695,897
10,712

511,559
750,378
11,037
5,316

615,892
–
–

715,273
–
–
–

1,783,751
–
–

1,629,265
–
–
–

Over
5 years

1,377,205
–
–

1,672,921
–
–
–

(e)  Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk

The  Group’s  income  and  operating  cash  flows  are  substantially  independent  of  changes  in  market  interest  rates. 
The Group has a policy to place surplus funds with creditable financial institutions which offer the best return for 
the Group on a short-term basis.

There are no material fixed rate receivables or borrowings in the Group.

The  Group  is  exposed  to  cash  flow  interest  rate  risk  through  the  impact  of  rate  changes  on  interest  bearing 
bank  balances  and  borrowings.  These  exposures  are  partially  managed  through  the  use  of  derivative  financial 
instruments such as interest rate swaps.

At  31st  December  2016,  if  interest  rates  had  been  0.1%  higher/lower  with  all  other  variables  held  constant,  post-
tax loss for the year would have been US$2.2 million lower/higher (2015: US$1.8 million lower/higher), mainly as a 
result of higher/lower net interest expense on the net floating rate borrowings.

3.2  Capital risk management

The  Group’s  objectives  when  managing  capital  are  to  safeguard  the  Group’s  ability  to  continue  as  a  going  concern 
in  order  to  provide  returns  for  shareholders  and  benefits  for  other  stakeholders  and  to  maintain  an  optimal  capital 
structure to reduce the cost of capital.

In  order  to  maintain  or  adjust  the  capital  structure,  the  Group  may  adjust  the  amount  of  dividends  paid  to  equity 
holders, return capital to equity holders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.

Consistent  with  others  in  the  industry,  the  Group  monitors  capital  on  the  basis  of  the  gearing  ratio.  This  ratio  is 
calculated  as  net  debt  divided  by  total  equity.  Net  debt  is  calculated  as  total  borrowings  (including  “current  and  non-
current borrowings” as shown in the consolidated balance sheet) less restricted bank balances, cash and bank balances 
and portfolio investments.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

119

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.2  Capital risk management (Continued)

The gearing ratios at 31st December 2016 and 2015 were as follows:

US$’000

Total borrowings (note 37)
Less: 

Restricted bank balances (note 24)
Cash and bank balances (note 34)
Portfolio investments (note 32)

Net debt

Total equity

Gearing ratio

2016

(4,090,737)
1,426
1,625,676
322,927

2015

(4,101,719)
1,423
2,015,581
295,894

(2,140,708)

(1,788,821)

4,519,286

4,797,510

0.47

0.37

The change in net debt position results primarily from the purchase of property, plant and equipment and loss incurred 
during the year.

3.3  Fair value estimation

The  financial  instruments  that  are  measured  in  the  balance  sheet  at  fair  value,  require  disclosure  of  fair  value 
measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy:

•  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).

• 

Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
(that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2).

• 

Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).

The following table presents the Group’s financial assets and liability that are measured at fair value at 31st December 
2016 and 2015.

US$’000

Assets
Portfolio investments
– Equity securities
– Debt securities
– Funds and other investments
Derivative financial instruments
Available-for-sale financial assets

– Listed equity securities
– Other investments

Total assets

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

2016

36,720
280,445
–
–

60,259
–

377,424

–
–
5,762
2,097

–
–

7,859

–
–
–
–

–
32,889

32,889

36,720
280,445
5,762
2,097

60,259
32,889

418,172

120

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.3  Fair value estimation (Continued)

US$’000

Assets
Portfolio investments
– Equity securities
– Debt securities
– Funds and other investments
Derivative financial instruments
Available-for-sale financial assets

– Listed equity securities
– Other investments

Total assets

Liability
Derivative financial instruments

Total liability

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

2015

51,865
234,172
–
–

75,962
–

361,999

–

–

–
–
9,857
1,654

–
–

11,511

5,316

5,316

–
–
–
–

–
52,036

52,036

–

–

51,865
234,172
9,857
1,654

75,962
52,036

425,546

5,316

5,316

There were no transfers among levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year.

The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet 
date. A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, 
industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market 
transactions on an arm’s length basis. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current 
bid price. These instruments are included in level 1. Instruments included in level 1 comprise portfolio investments and 
listed equity securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets.

The  fair  value  of  financial  instruments  that  are  not  traded  in  an  active  market  (for  example,  over-the-counter 
derivatives)  is  determined  by  using  valuation  techniques.  These  valuation  techniques  maximise  the  use  of  observable 
market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required 
to  fair  value  an  instrument  are  observable,  the  instrument  is  included  in  level  2.  Instruments  in  level  2  include  the 
derivative financial instruments.

If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.

Specific valuation techniques used to value level 2 and 3 financial instruments include:

•  Dealer quotes.

• 

• 

The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on 
observable yield curves.

The  fair  value  of  forward  foreign  exchange  contracts  is  determined  using  forward  exchange  rates  at  the  balance 
sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value.

•  Marketability discount rate derived from management’s judgement is applied to estimate the fair value of unlisted 

equity security classified as available-for-sale financial asset.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

121

 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.3  Fair value estimation (Continued)

There were no changes in valuation techniques during the year.

Instruments included in level 3 mainly comprise unlisted equity securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets.

The following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments.

US$’000

Opening balance
Additions
Fair value change recognised in other comprehensive income

Closing balance

2016

52,036
229
(19,376)

32,889

2015

72,232
–
(20,196)

52,036

For level 3 instruments, the discount rate used to compute the fair value is 15%. The higher the discount rate, the lower 
the fair value.

4.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS

Estimates and judgements used in preparing the consolidated financial statements are continually evaluated and are based on 
historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances.

The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 
financial year are discussed below.

(a)  Income taxes

The  Group  is  subject  to  income  taxes  in  numerous  jurisdictions.  Significant  judgement  is  required  in  determining 
the  worldwide  provision  for  income  taxes.  There  are  many  transactions  and  calculations  for  which  the  ultimate  tax 
determination  is  uncertain  during  the  ordinary  course  of  business.  Where  the  final  tax  outcome  of  these  matters  is 
different  from  the  amounts  that  were  initially  recorded,  such  differences  will  impact  the  income  tax  and  deferred  tax 
provisions in the period in which such determination is made.

Recognition of deferred tax assets, which principally relate to tax losses, depends on the management’s expectation of 
future taxable profit that will be available against which tax losses can be utilised. The outcome of their actual utilisation 
may be different.

(b)  Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Management  determines  the  estimated  useful  lives  and  residual  values  for  the  Group’s  property,  plant  and  equipment 
and intangible assets. Management will revise the depreciation charge where useful lives and residual values are different 
from previously estimated.

Management  determines  the  estimated  useful  lives  and  related  depreciation  expenses  for  the  vessels  and  containers. 
Management  estimates  useful  lives  of  its  vessels  and  containers  by  reference  to  expected  usage  of  the  vessels  and 
containers,  expected  repair  and  maintenance,  and  technical  or  commercial  obsolescence  arising  from  changes  or 
improvements in the market. It could change significantly as a result of the changes of these factors.

Were  the  useful  lives  of  vessels  and  containers  to  differ  by  10%  from  management  estimates  with  all  other  variables 
held constant, it is estimated that depreciation expense would increase or decrease by approximately US$63.4 million or 
US$47.1 million respectively (2015: US$49.9 million or US$35.4 million respectively).

122

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

4.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (CONTINUED)

(b)  Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (Continued)

Management  determines  the  residual  values  for  its  vessels  and  containers.  This  estimate  is  based  on  the  current 
scrap  values  of  steels  in  an  active  market  at  each  measurement  date  since  management  decides  to  dispose  of  the  fully 
depreciated vessels and containers as scrap steels. Depreciation expense would increase where the residual values are less 
than previously estimated values.

Were the residual values of vessels and containers to differ by 10% from management estimates with all other variables 
held constant, it is estimated that depreciation expense would increase or decrease by approximately US$11.6 million or 
US$11.5 million respectively (2015: US$11.1 million or US$12.0 million respectively).

(c)  Provision of operating costs

Operating  costs,  which  mainly  comprise  cargo  cost,  vessel  and  voyage  costs,  equipment  and  repositioning  costs  and 
terminal  operating  cost.  Invoices  in  relation  to  these  expenses  are  received  several  months  after  the  expenses  have 
been incurred. Consequently, recognition of accrued operating costs is based on the known services entered, pattern of 
historical cost as well as the estimated vendor tariff.

If the actual expenses of a voyage differ from the estimated expenses, this will have an impact on operating cost in future 
periods. Historically, the Group has not experienced significant deviation from the actual expenses.

(d)  Impairment of non-financial assets

In  assessing  the  indicators  of  potential  impairment  of  vessels,  terminal  equipment,  containers,  chassis  and  computer 
software of container transport operation (collectively “Operating Assets”), management considered both internal and 
external  sources  of  information.  Management  tests  whether  the  carrying  values  of  the  Operating  Assets  have  suffered 
any impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.

The  Operating  Assets  are  considered  as  a  single  cash-generating  unit  (“CGU”)  and  should  be  assessed  on  a  portfolio 
basis given the operations of each trade route is dependent upon each other and are interchangeable.

The  value-in-use  method  is  used  to  determine  the  recoverable  amount  of  the  Operating  Assets.  Value-in-use 
calculations require the use of estimates on the projected cash inflows from continuing use of the Operating Assets and 
discount rate which require significant judgement. The discount rate used in the management’s assessment is based on 
the weighted average cost of capital of the CGU and the applicable discount rate used in the impairment assessment in 
2016 is 5.6%.

Based on management’s best estimates, there was no impairment for the Operating Assets as at 31st December 2016.

Sensitivity analysis:

With all other variables held constant, increasing the discount rate by 100 basis points from the original estimate would 
not give rise to any impairment.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

123

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION

(a)  Revenue

US$’000

Container transport and logistics
Others

2016

5,270,323
27,370

5,297,693

2015

5,927,023
26,421

5,953,444

The principal activities of the Group are container transport and logistics.

Revenue comprises gross freight, charter hire, service and other income from the operation of the container transport 
and logistics and rental income from the investment property.

(b)  Segment information

The  principal  activities  of  the  Group  are  container  transport  and  logistics.  Container  transport  and  logistics  include 
global  containerised  shipping  services  in  major  trade  lanes,  covering  Trans-Pacific,  Trans-Atlantic,  Asia/Europe,  Asia/
Australia and Intra-Asia trades, and integrated services over the management and control of effective storage and flow 
of goods. In accordance with the Group’s internal financial reporting provided to the chief operating decision-makers, 
who  are  responsible  for  allocating  resources,  assessing  performance  of  the  operating  segments  and  making  strategic 
decisions, the reportable operating segments are container transport and logistics and others. The executive directors are 
the Group’s chief operating decision makers.

Operating segments

The segment results for the year ended 31st December 2016 are as follows:

US$’000

Revenue

Operating (loss)/profit
Finance costs (note 12)
Share of profits of joint ventures (note 19)
Share of profits of associated companies (note 20)

(Loss)/profit before taxation
Taxation

(Loss)/profit for the year

Capital expenditure
Depreciation
Amortisation

Container 
transport 
and logistics

5,270,323

(202,529)
(79,393)
5,135
12,818

(263,969)
(9,645)

(273,614)

477,159
400,351
8,523

Others

Elimination

Group

27,986

64,302
–
–
–

64,302
(9,909)

54,393

1,478
–
–

(616)

5,297,693

–
–
–
–

–
–

–

–
–
–

(138,227)
(79,393)
5,135
12,818

(199,667)
(19,554)

(219,221)

478,637
400,351
8,523

124

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)
Operating segments (Continued)

The segment results for the year ended 31st December 2015 are as follows:

US$’000
Revenue

Operating profit
Finance costs (note 12)
Share of profits of joint ventures (note 19)
Share of profits of associated companies (note 20)

Profit before taxation
Taxation

Profit for the year

Capital expenditure
Depreciation
Amortisation

Container 
transport 
and logistics

5,927,023

276,211
(63,642)
4,168
13,614

230,351
(12,338)

218,013

796,265
315,425
4,187

Others

27,364

76,857
–
–
–

76,857
(11,019)

65,838

455
1
–

Elimination

Group

(943)

5,953,444

–
–
–
–

–
–

–

–
–
–

353,068
(63,642)
4,168
13,614

307,208
(23,357)

283,851

796,720
315,426
4,187

The segment assets and liabilities at 31st December 2016 and 2015 are as follows:

US$’000
Segment assets
Joint ventures
Associated companies

Total assets

Segment liabilities

US$’000
Segment assets
Joint ventures
Associated companies

Total assets

Segment liabilities

Container 
transport 
and logistics

6,961,231
11,656
140,381

7,113,268

2016

Others

2,291,322
–
–

2,291,322

Group

9,252,553
11,656
140,381

9,404,590

(4,809,327)

(75,977)

(4,885,304)

Container 
transport 
and logistics

6,947,634
11,758
145,249

7,104,641

2015

Others

2,626,933
–
–

2,626,933

Group

9,574,567
11,758
145,249

9,731,574

(4,865,720)

(68,344)

(4,934,064)

The segment of “Others” primarily includes assets and liabilities of property and corporate level activities. Assets under 
the  segment  of  “Others”  consist  primarily  of  investment  property,  available-for-sale  financial  assets,  held-to-maturity 
investments  and  portfolio  investments  together  with  cash  and  bank  balances  that  are  managed  at  the  corporate  level. 
Liabilities  under  the  segment  of  “Others”  primarily  include  creditors  and  accruals  and  deferred  taxation  liabilities 
related to corporate level activities.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

125

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

Geographical information

The Group’s two reportable operating segments operate in four main geographical areas, even though they are managed 
on  a  worldwide  basis.  Freight  revenues  from  container  transport  and  logistics  are  analysed  based  on  the  outbound 
cargoes of each geographical territory.

The Group’s total assets mainly include container vessels and containers which are primarily utilised across geographical 
markets  for  shipment  of  cargoes  throughout  the  world.  Accordingly,  non-current  assets  by  geographical  areas  are  not 
presented.

Capital 
expenditure

23,766
180
55,903
18
398,770

478,637

18,294
585
59,221
23
718,597

796,720

2015

2,927,464
995,356
603,193
721,408

5,247,421
15,008

5,262,429

US$’000

Year ended 31st December 2016

Asia
Europe
North America
Australia
Unallocated*

Year ended 31st December 2015

Asia
Europe
North America
Australia
Unallocated*

Revenue

3,614,076
732,317
788,826
162,474
–

5,297,693

3,905,144
1,013,852
861,808
172,640
–

5,953,444

* 

Unallocated capital expenditure comprises additions to vessels, dry-docking, containers and intangible assets.

2016

2,930,530
935,145
435,238
715,711

5,016,624
15,648

5,032,272

6.  OPERATING COSTS

US$’000

Cargo
Vessel and voyage
Bunker cost
Equipment and repositioning

Investment property

126

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

7.  OTHER OPERATING INCOME

US$’000

Income from available-for-sale financial assets

– Distribution
– Dividend income

Interest income from banks
Interest income from held-to-maturity investments
Portfolio investment income

– Interest income
– Dividend income

Others

8.  OTHER (LOSSES)/GAINS, NET

US$’000

Fair value gain/(loss) on portfolio investments (realised and unrealised)
Gain/(loss) on bunker price derivative contracts
Net gain on interest rate swap contracts
Fair value gain on foreign exchange forward contracts
(Loss)/profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Loss on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets
Loss on disposal of held-to-maturity investments
Gain on derecognition of borrowings
Impairment on available-for-sale financial assets
Exchange loss

9.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSE

US$’000

Wages and salaries

Pension and retirement benefits

– Defined contribution plans (note 23)
– Defined benefit plans

2016

6,883
22,168
16,973
11,622

10,985
965
2,860

72,456

2016

3,658
3,364
56
3,191
(2,076)
(4,021)
(74)
–
(13,201)
(16,626)

(25,729)

2016

524,840

26,164
904

551,908

2015

5,803
24,749
16,954
11,481

9,784
1,144
4,251

74,166

2015

(10,948)
(6,595)
411
1,919
221
–
–
35,533
–
(10,282)

10,259

2015

497,148

26,498
1,269

524,915

Employee  benefit  expenses  of  US$213.3  million  (2015:  US$184.8  million)  are  included  in  “operating  costs”  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

127

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

10.  DIRECTORS’ AND MANAGEMENT’S EMOLUMENTS

(a)  Directors’ emoluments

The remuneration of each Director is set out below:

Name of Director
US$’000

For the year ended  

31st December 2016

Mr. C C Tung
Prof. Roger King
Mr. Philip Chow
Mr. Andrew Tung
Mr. Alan Tung
Mr. Simon Murray
Prof. Richard Wong
Mr. Edward Cheng
Mr. Clement Kwok

Name of Director
US$’000

For the year ended  

31st December 2015

Mr. C C Tung
Mr. Tsann Rong Chang*2
Prof. Roger King
Mr. Philip Chow
Mr. Andrew Tung
Mr. Alan Tung
Mr. Simon Murray
Prof. Richard Wong
Mr. Edward Cheng
Mr. Clement Kwok

Salary
and
benefits

Discre-
tionary
bonuses

Estimated
money value
of other
benefits*1

Employer’s
contribution
to provident
fund scheme

691
–
–
523
421
–
–
–
–

113
–
–
86
68
–
–
–
–

94
–
–
10
10
–
–
–
–

80
–
–
61
49
–
–
–
–

Salary
and
benefits

Discre-
tionary
bonuses

Estimated
money value
of other
benefits*1

Employer’s
contribution
to provident
fund scheme

663
–
–
–
502
474
–
–
–
–

107
–
–
–
81
65
–
–
–
–

75
–
–
–
9
6
–
–
–
–

77
–
–
–
58
54
–
–
–
–

Fees

107
60
66
–
–
32
47
32
32

Fees

107
28
60
53
–
–
32
47
32
16

Total

1,085
60
66
680
548
32
47
32
32

Total

1,029
28
60
53
650
599
32
47
32
16

The discretionary bonuses paid in 2016 relate to performance for year 2015.
*1  Other benefits include car related expenses and club membership.
*2  Resigned on 31st August 2015.

None of the Directors has waived the right to receive their emoluments.

128

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

10.  DIRECTORS’ AND MANAGEMENT’S EMOLUMENTS (CONTINUED)

(b)  Five highest paid individuals

The five individuals whose emoluments were the highest in the Group for the year include three (2015: three) Directors 
whose  emoluments  are  reflected  in  the  analysis  presented  above.  The  emoluments  payable  to  the  remaining  two 
individuals (2015: two individuals) are as follows:

US$’000

Basic salaries, housing allowances, other allowances and benefits in kind
Discretionary bonuses
Estimated money value of other benefits
Pension costs – defined contribution plans

The emoluments of the five individuals fell within the following bands:

Emolument bands (US$)

448,701 ~ 512,800
512,801 ~ 576,900
576,901 ~ 641,000
641,001 ~ 705,100
1,025,601 ~ 1,089,700

(HK$3,500,001 ~ HK$4,000,000)
(HK$4,000,001 ~ HK$4,500,000)
(HK$4,500,001 ~ HK$5,000,000)
(HK$5,000,001 ~ HK$5,500,000)
(HK$8,000,001 ~ HK$8,500,000)

(c)  Key management compensation

US$’000

Salaries and other employee benefits
Estimated money value of other benefits
Pension costs – defined contribution plans

2016

909
147
9
76

1,141

2015

850
69
5
68

992

Number of individuals

2016

2015

–
2
1
1
1

5

2016

5,292
138
488

5,918

2
–
1
1
1

5

2015

4,678
106
434

5,218

The  Group  usually  determines  and  pays  discretionary  bonuses  to  employees  (including  Directors)  around  April/May 
each  year  based  on  the  actual  financial  results  of  the  Group  for  the  preceding  year.  The  discretionary  bonuses  shown 
above  represent  actual  payments  to  the  Directors  and  individuals  during  the  current  financial  year  in  relation  to 
performance for the preceding year.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

129

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

11.  OPERATING (LOSS)/PROFIT

US$’000

Operating (loss)/profit is arrived at after crediting:

Operating lease rental income

Land and buildings

and after charging:
Depreciation

Owned assets
Leased assets

Operating lease rental expense

Vessels and equipment
Terminals and berths
Land and buildings

Rental outgoings in respect of an investment property
Amortisation of intangible assets
Amortisation of prepayments of lease premiums
Auditors’ remuneration

Audit
Non-audit

2016

2015

27,370

26,421

299,296
101,055

260,264
47,203
34,601
15,648
8,302
221

2,630
902

228,169
87,257

341,789
32,394
32,254
15,008
3,956
231

2,917
870

Operating  lease  rental  expenses  of  US$316.4  million  and  US$25.7  million  (2015:  US$381.2  million  and  US$25.2  million) 
respectively are included in “operating costs” and “business and administrative expenses” in the consolidated profit and loss 
account.

12.  FINANCE COSTS

US$’000

Interest expense

Bank loans and bank overdrafts
Finance lease obligations

Amount capitalised under assets

Net interest expense

2016

47,506
37,070

84,576
(5,183)

79,393

2015

38,543
30,667

69,210
(5,568)

63,642

The borrowing costs of the loans to finance the assets under construction (note 16) represent an average capitalisation rate of 
approximately 1.8% (2015: 3.2%) per annum.

13.  TAXATION

US$’000

Current taxation

Hong Kong profits tax
Overseas taxation

Deferred taxation

Hong Kong profits tax
Overseas taxation

130

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

2016

78
10,533

10,611

108
8,835

8,943

19,554

2015

87
15,935

16,022

(273)
7,608

7,335

23,357

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

13.  TAXATION (CONTINUED)

Taxation  has  been  provided  at  the  appropriate  tax  rates  prevailing  in  the  countries  in  which  the  Group  operates  on  the 
estimated assessable profits for the year. These rates range from 11% to 46% (2015: 11% to 47%) and the rate applicable for 
Hong Kong profits tax is 16.5% (2015: 16.5%).

The associated companies in the People’s Republic of China enjoy preferential tax treatment.

The tax of the Group’s (loss)/profit before taxation differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the applicable 
tax rates, being the weighted average of rates prevailing in the territories in which the Group operates, as follows:

US$’000

(Loss)/profit before taxation
Share of profits of joint ventures
Share of profits of associated companies

Tax calculated at applicable tax rates
Income not subject to tax
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
Tax losses not recognised
Temporary differences not recognised
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses
Utilisation of previously unrecognised temporary differences
Recognition of previously unrecognised temporary differences
Withholding tax
Change in tax rates
Other items

2016

(199,667)
(5,135)
(12,818)

(217,620)

(23,939)
(252,116)
289,495
3,227
755
(1,281)
(374)
–
3,320
167
300

19,554

2015

307,208
(4,168)
(13,614)

289,426

91,880
(306,413)
232,949
4,671
536
(404)
(861)
(23)
1,354
(12)
(320)

23,357

14.  (LOSS)/EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE

The  calculation  of  basic  and  diluted  (loss)/earnings  per  ordinary  share  is  based  on  the  Group’s  (loss)/profit  attributable  to 
equity holders of the Company divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.

The basic and diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share are the same since there are no potential dilutive shares.

US$’000

Number of ordinary shares in issue (thousands)

Group’s (loss)/profit attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company

(Loss)/earnings per share attributable to equity holders 
  of the Company (US cents)

15.  DIVIDENDS

US$’000

Interim paid: nil (2015: US9.6 cents) per ordinary share
Proposed final: nil (2015: US1.85 cents) per ordinary share

2016

625,793

2015

625,793

(219,221)

283,851

(35.0)

45.4

2016

–
–

–

2015

60,179
11,577

71,756

The Board of Directors do not recommend a final dividend in respect of 2016 (2015: US1.85 cents per ordinary share).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

131

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

16.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Container
vessels and
capitalised
dry-docking
costs

Assets
under
construction

Containers
and
chassis

Terminal
equipment
and 
improvement

Freehold
land and
buildings
outside
Hong Kong

Buildings
outside
Hong Kong

Leasehold
improvement
and
furniture

Vehicles,
computer
and other
equipment

US$’000

Cost

At 31st December 2015
Currency translation adjustments
Additions
Reclassification
Disposals

4,964,814
–
15,683
–
(10,267)

716,396
–
303,646
(292,531)
–

2,114,951
(77)
107,711
–
(26,193)

180,430
–
9,807
292,531
(702)

At 31st December 2016

4,970,230

727,511

2,196,392

482,066

Accumulated depreciation
At 31st December 2015
Currency translation adjustments
Charge for the year
Disposals

At 31st December 2016

Net book amount

1,079,910
–
198,857
(10,006)

1,268,761

–
–
–
–

–

840,028
(69)
152,268
(22,165)

123,433
–
27,467
(59)

970,062

150,841

At 31st December 2016

3,701,469

727,511

1,226,330

331,225

At 31st December 2015

3,884,904

716,396

1,274,923

56,997

Net book amount of leased assets

At 31st December 2016

1,890,435

–

120,513

98,192

At 31st December 2015

1,788,072

105,940

131,430

73

Cost

At 31st December 2014
Currency translation adjustments
Additions
Reclassification
Disposals

4,605,497
–
23,870
424,610
(89,163)

581,350
–
561,194
(426,148)
–

1,972,922
(125)
169,576
–
(27,422)

177,832
–
3,284
1,395
(2,081)

At 31st December 2015

4,964,814

716,396

2,114,951

180,430

Accumulated depreciation
At 31st December 2014
Currency translation adjustments
Charge for the year
Disposals

939,492
–
178,858
(38,440)

At 31st December 2015

1,079,910

Net book amount

–
–
–
–

–

755,897
(90)
108,647
(24,426)

116,164
–
9,324
(2,055)

840,028

123,433

At 31st December 2015

3,884,904

716,396

1,274,923

At 31st December 2014

3,666,005

581,350

1,217,025

Net book amount of leased assets

At 31st December 2015

1,788,072

105,940

131,430

At 31st December 2014

1,504,508

103,498

141,339

56,997

61,668

73

–

6,992
13
–
–
–

7,005

2,835
7
106
–

2,948

4,057

4,157

–

–

7,162
(170)
–
–
–

6,992

2,831
(115)
119
–

2,835

4,157

4,331

–

–

132

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

Total

8,220,125
(6,426)
464,360
–
(43,343)

49,774
(3,113)
40
–
–

52,955
(1,606)
12,224
–
(4,336)

133,813
(1,643)
15,249
–
(1,845)

46,701

59,237

145,574

8,634,716

16,291
(1,021)
1,756
–

39,974
(1,210)
6,870
(4,244)

96,910
(1,242)
13,027
(1,680)

2,199,381
(3,535)
400,351
(38,154)

17,026

41,390

107,015

2,558,043

29,675

33,483

17,847

12,981

38,559

6,076,673

36,903

6,020,744

–

–

52,755
(2,981)
–
–
–

49,774

15,290
(867)
1,868
–

16,291

33,483

37,465

–

–

–

–

980

2,110,120

1,608

2,027,123

54,352
(2,096)
5,197
–
(4,498)

131,011
(2,159)
22,120
143
(17,302)

7,582,881
(7,531)
785,241
–
(140,466)

52,955

133,813

8,220,125

41,245
(1,539)
4,720
(4,452)

39,974

12,981

13,107

103,033
(1,662)
11,890
(16,351)

1,973,952
(4,273)
315,426
(85,724)

96,910

2,199,381

36,903

6,020,744

27,978

5,608,929

–

–

1,608

1,854

2,027,123

1,751,199

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

16.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)

(a)  The  aggregate  net  book  amount  of  assets  pledged  as  security  for  bank  loans  amounts  to  US$2,785.5  million  (2015: 
US$3,062.6  million).  Specific  charges  on  vessels  of  the  Group  include  legal  mortgages  and  assignments  of  insurance 
claims and charter hire income relating to these vessels.

(b)  Interest  costs  of  US$5.2  million  (2015:  US$5.6  million)  during  the  year  were  capitalised  as  part  of  assets  under 

construction.

(c)  Depreciation charge of US$380.3 million (2015: US$298.9 million) for the year has been expensed in “operating costs” 

and US$20.1 million (2015: US$16.5 million) in “business and administrative expenses”.

(d)  As at 31st December 2016 and 2015, the buildings outside Hong Kong are held under medium-term leasehold land.

Property, plant and equipment include the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under finance leases:

US$’000

Cost – capitalised finance leases
Accumulated depreciation

Net book amount

2016

2,669,690
(559,570)

2,110,120

2015

2,487,548
(460,425)

2,027,123

The  Group  leases  various  container  vessels,  containers,  terminal  equipment  and  other  equipment  (2015:  container  vessels, 
containers,  assets  under  construction,  terminal  equipment  and  other  equipment)  under  non-cancellable  finance  lease 
agreements. The lease terms are between 5 and 25 years.

17.  INVESTMENT PROPERTY

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Additions

Fair value gain

Balance at end of year

2016

200,000
1,478

201,478
18,522

220,000

2015

180,000
455

180,455
19,545

200,000

Background and valuation processes of the Group

The  investment  property,  “Wall  Street  Plaza”,  is  a  commercial  property  located  at  88,  Pine  Street,  New  York,  USA.  The 
property is situated on three parcels of freehold land, two of which are wholly owned by the Group. The freehold interest in 
the third parcel, representing approximately 10% of the site, is 50% owned by the Group and under a long-term lease to the 
Group expiring in the year 2066.

Valuation processes of the Group

The Group’s investment property was valued at 31st December 2016 by an independent professionally qualified valuer who 
holds a recognised relevant professional qualification. The Group’s finance department reviews the valuation performed by 
the  independent  valuer  for  financial  reporting  purposes.  This  team  reports  directly  to  the  Chief  Financial  Officer  “CFO”. 
Discussions  of  valuation  processes  and  results  are  held  between  the  CFO,  the  finance  team  and  the  valuer.  As  at  31st 
December 2016, the fair value of the property has been determined by Cushman & Wakefield, Inc.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

133

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

17.  INVESTMENT PROPERTY (CONTINUED)

Valuation techniques

Fair  value  of  the  investment  property  is  derived  by  using  the  discounted  cash  flow  method.  The  net  present  value  of  the 
income stream is estimated by applying an appropriate discount rate which reflects the risk profile.

There were no changes to the valuation techniques during the year.

Information about fair value measurement using significant unobservable inputs

Discount  rate  is  estimated  by  Cushman  &  Wakefield,  Inc.  based  on  the  risk  profile  of  the  property  being  valued.  If  the 
discount rate is higher, the fair value would be lower. At 31st December 2016, discount rate of 7.3% per annum (2015: 7.5% 
per annum) is used in the valuation.

Net  operating  income  growth  rates  of  5%  per  annum  (2015:  5%  per  annum)  for  the  second  and  third  years  and  3%  per 
annum (2015: 3% per annum) for the remaining years are used in the valuation. If the growth rate is higher, the fair value 
would be higher.

Prevailing market rents are estimated based on recent lettings of US$44 per sq ft to US$46 per sq ft (2015: US$38 per sq ft to 
US$41 per sq ft), within the subject property. If the rents are higher, the fair value would be higher.

18.  PREPAYMENTS OF LEASE PREMIUMS

The Group’s interests in leasehold land and land use rights represent prepaid operating lease payments for leases between 30 
and 50 years and their net book values are analysed as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Amortisation

Balance at end of year

2016

8,462
(423)
(221)

7,818

2015

9,109
(416)
(231)

8,462

Amortisation  of  US$0.2  million  (2015:  US$0.2  million)  is  included  in  “business  and  administrative  expenses”  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account.

134

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

19.  JOINT VENTURES

US$’000

Share of net assets

2016

11,225

2015

8,887

The Group’s share of assets, liabilities and results of the joint ventures are summarised below:

US$’000

Non-current assets
Current assets
Current liabilities

Share of net assets

Income
Expenses

Share of profits of joint ventures

Share of total comprehensive income of joint ventures

Particulars of the joint ventures at 31st December 2016 are shown on page 163.

20.  ASSOCIATED COMPANIES

US$’000

Share of net assets

2016

95
13,526
(2,396)

11,225

15,319
(10,184)

5,135

3,968

2015

134
13,516
(4,763)

8,887

14,716
(10,548)

4,168

3,758

2016

137,527

2015

145,249

The Group’s share of assets, liabilities and results of the associated companies are summarised as follows:

US$’000

Non-current assets
Current assets
Non-current liabilities
Current liabilities

Share of net assets

Income
Expenses

Share of profits of associated companies

Share of total comprehensive income of associated companies

Particulars of the associated companies at 31st December 2016 are shown on page 163.

2016

142,764
14,528
(2,854)
(16,911)

137,527

41,543
(28,725)

12,818

3,642

2015

158,688
11,148
(7,916)
(16,671)

145,249

46,571
(32,957)

13,614

4,994

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

135

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

21.  INTANGIBLE ASSETS

US$’000

At 1st January 2015

Cost
Accumulated amortisation

Net book amount

Year ended 31st December 2015
Opening net book amount
Additions
Amortisation

Closing net book amount

At 31st December 2015

Cost
Accumulated amortisation

Net book amount

Year ended 31st December 2016
Opening net book amount
Additions
Amortisation

Closing net book amount

At 31st December 2016

Cost
Accumulated amortisation

Net book amount

Computer 
software costs

157,055
(108,477)

48,578

48,578
11,024
(3,956)

55,646

168,079
(112,433)

55,646

55,646
12,799
(8,302)

60,143

180,878
(120,735)

60,143

Computer software costs mainly comprise internally generated capitalised software development costs.

Amortisation  of  US$8.3  million  (2015:  US$4.0  million)  is  included  in  “business  and  administrative  expenses”  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account.

22.  DEFERRED TAXATION ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets
Deferred taxation liabilities

2016

4,227
(71,337)

(67,110)

2015

3,765
(62,041)

(58,276)

Deferred  taxation  assets  and  liabilities  are  offset  when  there  is  a  legal  right  to  set  off  current  taxation  assets  with  current 
taxation  liabilities  and  when  the  deferred  taxation  relates  to  the  same  taxation  authority.  The  above  assets/(liabilities) 
shown in the consolidated balance sheet are determined after appropriate offsetting of the relevant amounts and include the 
following:

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets to be recovered after more than twelve months

2016

3,240

2015

761

Deferred taxation liabilities to be settled after more than twelve months

(71,337)

(61,965)

136

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

22.  DEFERRED TAXATION ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)

Deferred  taxation  is  calculated  in  full  on  temporary  differences  under  the  liability  method  using  applicable  tax  rates 
prevailing in the countries in which the Group operates. The movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities (prior to 
offsetting of balances within the same taxation jurisdiction) during the year were as follows:

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets

At 31st December 2014
Currency translation adjustments
(Charged)/credited to consolidated profit  

and loss account

Charged to other comprehensive income

At 31st December 2015
Currency translation adjustments
(Charged)/credited to consolidated profit  

and loss account

Credited to other comprehensive income

At 31st December 2016

US$’000

Deferred taxation liabilities

At 31st December 2014
Currency translation adjustments
(Credited)/charged to consolidated profit  

and loss account

At 31st December 2015
Currency translation adjustments
(Credited)/charged to consolidated profit  

and loss account

At 31st December 2016

Accelerated 
accounting
depreciation

Pensions

Revenue
expenditure

Tax
losses

1,068
(7)

(34)
–

1,027
15

(494)
–

548

1,450
(69)

(316)
(948)

117
(20)

(271)
174

–

8,839
(58)

45
–

8,826
(14)

(1,913)
–

6,899

1,370
(89)

1,246
–

2,527
(48)

728
–

3,207

10,654

Total

12,727
(223)

941
(948)

12,497
(67)

(1,950)
174

Accelerated
tax
depreciation

Revaluation
of investment
property

Revenue
expenditure

Undistributed
profits of
affiliates

7,502
–

(1,552)

5,950
(2)

(5,566)

382

53,553
–

8,350

61,903
–

7,326

69,229

1,440
2

1,478

2,920
–

3,189

6,109

–
–

–

–
–

2,044

2,044

Total

62,495
2

8,276

70,773
(2)

6,993

77,764

Deferred  taxation  assets  of  US$30.1  million  (2015:  US$30.8  million)  arising  from  unused  tax  losses  of  US$139.5  million 
(2015: US$123.8 million) have not been recognised in the consolidated financial statements. Unused tax losses of US$112.9 
million  (2015:  US$117.4  million)  have  no  expiry  date  and  the  remaining  balance  will  expire  at  various  dates  up  to  and 
including 2036.

Deferred taxation liabilities of US$93.1 million (2015: US$92.2 million) on temporary differences associated with investments 
in  subsidiaries  of  US$394.8  million  (2015:  US$388.1  million)  have  not  been  recognised  as  there  is  no  current  intention  of 
remitting the retained profit of these subsidiaries to the holding companies in the foreseeable future.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

137

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

23.  PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS

The  Group  operates  a  number  of  defined  benefit  and  defined  contribution  pension  and  retirement  schemes  in  the  main 
countries  in  which  the  Group  operates.  The  total  charges  to  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  for  the  year  were 
US$27.1 million (2015: US$27.8 million).

Defined contribution schemes

The  principal  defined  contribution  schemes  are  operated  in  Hong  Kong,  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  and  the  USA. 
These  schemes  cover  approximately  80%  of  the  Group’s  employees.  Contributions  to  the  defined  contribution  schemes, 
all  the  assets  of  which  are  held  in  trust  funds  separate  from  the  Group,  are  based  on  a  percentage  of  an  employee’s  salary, 
depending upon the length of service of the employee, but the Group’s contributions to certain schemes may be reduced by 
contributions forfeited by those employees who leave the schemes prior to vesting fully in those contributions.

In  2008,  the  Group  terminated  the  defined  benefit  scheme  and  post-retirement  medical  plans  in  the  USA  at  the  request  of 
the labour unions. All the pension assets and obligations were transferred to a defined benefit multi-employer pension plan 
and a defined benefit multi-employer post-retirement medical plan (the “Plans”) together with other industry players. Since 
the Group is not able to identify its share of the underlying financial position and performance of the Plans with sufficient 
reliability for accounting purposes, accordingly the Plans are accounted for by the Group as defined contribution plans.

The charges for the defined contribution schemes to the consolidated profit and loss account during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Contributions to the schemes
Forfeitures utilised

Defined benefit schemes

The amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are as follows:

US$’000

Funded scheme assets
Funded scheme liabilities
Unfunded scheme liabilities

Net scheme (liabilities)/assets

2016

26,755
(591)

26,164

2016

–
(11,782)
(75)

(11,857)

2015

27,110
(612)

26,498

2015

7,855
–
(109)

7,746

138

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

23.  PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

Defined benefit schemes (Continued)

Net funded scheme (liabilities)/assets

The principal defined benefit scheme is operated in the United Kingdom which was valued by Barnett Waddingham LLP. The 
defined benefit scheme (the “Scheme”) cover approximately 1% of the Group’s employees and are funded. The assets of the 
Scheme  are  held  in  trust  funds  separate  from  the  Group.  Contributions  to  the  Scheme  are  assessed  in  accordance  with  the 
advice of qualified actuaries in compliance with local practice and regulations. The actuarial assumptions used to calculate 
the projected benefit obligations of the Group’s pension schemes vary according to the economic conditions of the countries 
in which they are situated.

The net Scheme (liabilities)/assets of the Scheme recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are determined as follows:

US$’000
Fair value of plan assets
Present value of funded obligations

(Deficit)/surplus of funded plan

Movements in the fair value of the plan assets of the Scheme during the year are as follows:

US$’000
Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Interest income on plan assets
Remeasurement gain/(losses) on assets
Contributions from the Group
Contributions from the plan members
Benefits paid

Balance at end of year

Movements in the present value of obligations of the Scheme during the year are as follows:

US$’000
Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Current service cost
Interest expense
Experience gains on liabilities
Gains from changes to demographic assumptions
Losses/(gains) from changes to financial assumptions
Contributions from the plan members
Benefits paid

Balance at end of year

2016
200,690
(212,472)

(11,782)

2016
226,692
(39,608)
7,565
14,382
2,813
74
(11,228)

200,690

2016
218,837
(38,354)
1,208
7,261
(1,727)
(782)
37,183
74
(11,228)

212,472

The charges of the Scheme recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account are as follows:

US$’000
Current service cost
Interest expense
Interest income on plan assets

Net expense recognised for the year

2016
1,208
7,261
(7,565)

904

2015
226,692
(218,837)

7,855

2015
252,656
(12,364)
8,245
(11,707)
3,392
89
(13,619)

226,692

2015
254,065
(12,465)
1,217
8,253
(4,993)
(2,563)
(11,147)
89
(13,619)

218,837

2015
1,217
8,253
(8,245)

1,225

Charges of US$0.9 million (2015: charges of US$1.2 million) were included in “business and administrative expenses” in the 
consolidated profit and loss account.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

139

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

23.  PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

Defined benefit schemes (Continued)

Net funded scheme (liabilities)/assets (Continued)

The main actuarial assumptions made for the Scheme were as follows:

Discount rate
Inflation rate
Expected future salary increases
Expected future pension increases

Actual return on plan assets (US$’000)

2016

2.6%
3.0%
3.5%
2.7%

2015

3.7%
2.5%
3.0%
2.3%

(5,600)

(3,815)

At 31st December 2016, if discount rate had been 0.2% higher/lower, with all other variables held constant, the fair value of 
the funded obligations would have been US$6.1 million lower/US$6.4 million higher. At 31st December 2016, if inflation rate 
had been 0.1% higher/lower, with all other variables held constant, the fair value of the funded obligations would have been 
US$2.2  million  higher/US$2.2  million  lower.  The  sensitivities  show  the  likely  effect  of  a  single  assumption  being  adjusted 
while holding all other assumptions constant.

Plan assets of the Scheme comprise the following:

US$’000

Equity
Debt
Others

2016

2015

30,221
154,467
16,002

200,690

15%
77%
8%

100%

36,709
169,807
20,176

226,692

16%
75%
9%

100%

The  current  agreed  contribution  rate  is  29.1%  of  contributory  salaries  and  the  estimated  duration  of  the  Scheme’s  liability 
was 14 years. Expected normal and deficit reduction contributions to the Scheme for the year ending 31st December 2017 is 
US$2.8 million.

Through its defined benefit pension plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks as follows:

• 

• 

• 

Investment risk. The Scheme holds investments in asset classes, such as equities, which have volatile market values and 
while these assets are expected to provide real returns over the long-term, the short-term volatility can cause additional 
funding to be required if deficit emerges.

Interest rate and market risk. The Scheme’s liabilities are assessed using market yields on high quality corporate bonds 
to  discount  the  liabilities.  As  the  Scheme  holds  assets  such  as  equities,  the  value  of  the  assets  and  liabilities  may  not 
move in the same way.

Inflation risk. A significant proportion of the benefits under the Scheme are linked to inflation. Although the Scheme’s 
assets are expected to provide a good hedge against inflation over the long term, movements over the short-term could 
lead to deficits emerging.

• 

Longevity and other demographic risk. If members live longer than assumed a deficit will emerge in the Scheme.

140

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

24.  RESTRICTED BANK BALANCES

US$’000

Non-current
Current

Restricted bank balances

2016

403
1,023

1,426

2015

980
443

1,423

As  at  31st  December  2016,  the  restricted  bank  balances  of  US$1.4  million  (2015:  US$1.4  million)  are  funds  pledged  as 
securities for banking facilities or required to be utilised for specific purposes.

The  carrying  amounts  of  the  Group’s  restricted  bank  balances  are  mainly  denominated  in  New  Taiwan  dollar  (2015:  New 
Taiwan dollar).

The credit quality of restricted bank balances by reference to Standard & Poor’s, and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

AA
A
BBB

25.  AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Additions
Disposals
Change in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income

Balance at end of year

Available-for-sale financial assets include the following:

US$’000

Market value of listed equity securities

Hong Kong

Unlisted equity security
Others

2016

386
1,037
3

1,426

2016

127,998
(2)
14,494
(21,330)
(28,012)

93,148

2016

60,259
31,900
989

93,148

2015

392
1,029
2

1,423

2015

139,636
(12)
16,847
(9)
(28,464)

127,998

2015

75,962
51,300
736

127,998

The carrying amounts of the Group’s available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

Renminbi
Hong Kong dollar
Other currencies

2016

92,189
817
142

93,148

2015

127,293
562
143

127,998

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

141

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

26.  HELD-TO-MATURITY INVESTMENTS

US$’000

Listed debt securities

Hong Kong
Overseas

Less: Current portion included in current assets

Market value

Movements in held-to-maturity investments are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Additions
Disposals
Redemptions on maturity
Amortisation
Currency translation adjustments

Balance at end of year

2016

2015

141,912
95,005

236,917
(41,621)

195,296

249,984

2016

236,078
29,219
(4,122)
(14,950)
(356)
(8,952)

236,917

146,960
89,118

236,078
(19,074)

217,004

245,101

2015

245,827
17,466
–
(24,806)
(295)
(2,114)

236,078

The carrying amounts of held-to-maturity investments are mainly denominated in US dollar (2015: US dollar).

The  credit  quality  of  held-to-maturity  investments  by  reference  to  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s  credit  ratings  is  as 
follows:

US$’000

AAA
AA
A
BBB
BB
B
Non-ranking

2016

9,517
6,789
58,793
101,258
4,908
8,280
47,372

236,917

2015

9,523
20,186
73,912
71,980
15,895
–
44,582

236,078

The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying amount of held-to-maturity investments.

142

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27.  OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS

US$’000

Other deposit
Others

28.  INVENTORIES

US$’000

Bunker
Consumable stores

29.  DEBTORS AND PREPAYMENTS

US$’000

Trade receivables
– Fully performing
– Past due but not impaired
– Impaired and provided for

Less: provision for impairment

Trade receivables – net
Other debtors
Other prepayments
Utility and other deposits

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2016

19,891
12,200

32,091

2016

72,304
12,168

84,472

2015

7,788
8,847

16,635

2015

58,374
14,107

72,481

2016

2015

182,934
111,495
16,313

310,742
(16,313)

294,429
72,806
93,996
12,927

474,158

195,897
113,286
9,548

318,731
(9,548)

309,183
80,850
97,002
12,374

499,409

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

143

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

29.  DEBTORS AND PREPAYMENTS (CONTINUED)

The  credit  quality  of  trade  receivables  net  of  provision  for  impairment,  by  reference  to  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s 
credit ratings (if available) or to historical information about counterparty default rates is as follows:

US$’000

Counterparties with external credit rating
A
BBB
BB

Counterparties without external credit rating
Group 1
Group 2
Group 3

2016

11,495
9,564
758

21,817

14,817
257,614
181

272,612

294,429

2015

20,028
8,830
4,604

33,462

13,032
262,633
56

275,721

309,183

Notes:

Group 1 – new customers (less than 6 months).

Group 2 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with no defaults in the past.

Group 3 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with some defaults in the past.

Trade  receivables  are  normally  due  for  payment  on  presentation  of  invoices  or  granted  with  an  approved  credit  period 
ranging mainly from 10 to 30 days. Debtors with overdue balances are requested to settle all outstanding balances before any 
further credit is granted.

The majority of past due but not impaired trade receivables are less than three months old. The ageing analysis of the Group’s 
trade receivables, net of provision for impairment, prepared in accordance with the due dates of invoices, is as follows:

US$’000

Below one month
Two to three months
Four to six months
Over six months

2016

271,913
16,598
4,839
1,079

294,429

2015

276,684
25,900
4,673
1,926

309,183

There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a large number of internationally 
dispersed customers. Other debtors are fully performing.

144

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

29.  DEBTORS AND PREPAYMENTS (CONTINUED)

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Canadian dollar
Euro
Japanese yen
Hong Kong dollar
Renminbi
Pound sterling
Australian dollar
Other currencies

Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Provision
Write off
Reversal

Balance at end of year

2016

114,915
9,654
40,469
15,454
5,516
38,950
8,883
15,282
45,306

294,429

2016

9,548
7,176
(256)
(155)

16,313

2015

108,639
14,954
40,433
15,465
5,548
44,308
9,971
19,488
50,377

309,183

2015

10,704
1,581
(1,823)
(914)

9,548

The provision for impairment has been included in “business and administrative expenses” in the consolidated profit and loss 
account.

30.  AMOUNT DUE FROM AN ASSOCIATED COMPANY

The amount receivable is unsecured, interest free and has no specific repayment terms.

31.  AMOUNTS DUE FROM JOINT VENTURES

The amounts receivable are unsecured, interest free and have no specific repayment terms.

32.  PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS

US$’000

Listed equity securities

Hong Kong
Overseas

Market value of listed equity securities
Unit trust
Listed debt securities

Hong Kong
Overseas

2016

19,569
17,151

36,720
5,762

174,899
105,546

322,927

2015

37,198
14,667

51,865
9,857

183,417
50,755

295,894

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

145

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

32.  PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)

The carrying amounts of the Group’s portfolio investments are mainly denominated in US dollar (2015: US dollar).

The credit quality of listed debt securities by reference to Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

AA
A
BBB
BB
Non-ranking

2016

–
42,460
136,203
22,013
79,769

280,445

2015

4,752
30,063
103,665
12,479
83,213

234,172

The fair value of all equity securities and debt securities are based on their current bid prices in active markets.

33.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

US$’000

Assets
Non-current assets

Interest rate swap contracts

Current assets

Bunker price derivative contracts
Interest rate swap contract

Liabilities
Current liabilities

Foreign exchange forward contract
Bunker price derivative contracts

2016

2015

–

2,097
–

2,097

–
–

–

1,507

–
147

1,654

(3,157)
(2,159)

(5,316)

The  credit  quality  of  derivative  financial  assets  by  reference  to  the  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s  credit  rating  is  as 
follows:

US$’000

AA
A

2016

2,097
–

2,097

2015

147
1,507

1,654

146

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

33.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

(a)  Foreign exchange forward contract

The notional principal amount of the outstanding foreign exchange forward contract at 31st December 2016 was US$nil 
(2015: US$4.0 million).

(b)  Interest rate swap contracts

The  notional  principal  amounts  of  the  outstanding  interest  rate  swap  contracts  at  31st  December  2016  were  US$nil 
(2015: US$30.8 million).

(c)  Bunker price derivative contracts

At  31st  December  2016,  the  Group  had  entered  into  contracts  covering  approximately  11%  (2015:  5%)  of  expected 
purchase of bunker for the next year through bunker price derivative contracts.

34.  CASH AND BANK BALANCES

US$’000

Short-term bank deposits

– Maturing within three months from the date of placement

Cash at bank and in hand

Short-term bank deposits

– Maturing more than three months from the date of placement

2016

2015

1,213,057
412,162

1,625,219

457

1,625,676

1,252,796
484,729

1,737,525

278,056

2,015,581

The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash and bank balances are mainly denominated in US dollar (2015: US dollar).

The credit quality of cash at bank and in hand and short-term bank deposits by reference to Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and/
or Fitch’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

AA
A
BBB
BB
B
Others

2016

344,528
823,592
446,852
5,739
272
4,693

2015

614,930
950,358
440,703
4,100
1,561
3,929

1,625,676

2,015,581

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

147

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2016

2015

90,000
65,000
50,000

205,000

Number of
shares
(thousands)

90,000
65,000
50,000

205,000

Ordinary
shares
US$’000

625,793

62,579

Available-
for-sale 
financial assets 
revaluation 
reserve

69,374
(28,464)

Foreign 
exchange 
translation 
reserve

61,400
(17,098)

–
–

–
–

40,910
(10,058)

44,302
(17,223)

Retained 
profit

4,175,699
289,899

(21,400)
(60,179)

4,384,019
(239,339)

Total

4,572,173
244,337

(21,400)
(60,179)

4,734,931
(266,620)

–

–

(11,604)

(11,604)

30,852

27,079

4,133,076

4,456,707

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

35.  SHARE CAPITAL

US$’000

Authorised:

900,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.10 each
65,000,000 convertible redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each
50,000,000 redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each

Issued and fully paid:

At 31st December 2015 and 2016

36.  RESERVES

US$’000

Balance at 31st December 2014
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
Transactions with owners
2014 final dividend
2015 interim dividend

Balance at 31st December 2015
Total comprehensive loss for the year
Transactions with owners
2015 final dividend

Share 
premium

Contributed 
surplus

Capital 
redemption 
reserve

172,457
–

–
–

172,457
–

–

88,547
–

–
–

88,547
–

–

4,696
–

–
–

4,696
–

–

4,696

Balance at 31st December 2016

172,457

88,547

148

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37.  BORROWINGS

US$’000

Non-current
Bank loans
– Secured
– Unsecured
Finance lease obligations

Current
Bank overdrafts, unsecured
Bank loans
– Secured
– Unsecured
Finance lease obligations

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2016

2015

1,624,089
309,972
1,555,211

3,489,272

–

242,848
21,498
337,119

601,465

1,748,392
233,169
1,681,539

3,663,100

14

297,808
14,559
126,238

438,619

Total borrowings

4,090,737

4,101,719

The maturity of borrowings is as follows:

US$’000

As at 31st December 2016

2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022 onwards

As at 31st December 2015

2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021 onwards

Bank
loans

Bank
overdrafts

264,346
268,495
295,376
429,572
360,719
579,899

2,198,407

312,367
314,405
337,031
240,147
371,843
718,135

2,293,928

–
–
–
–
–
–

–

14
–
–
–
–
–

14

Finance leases

Present
value

337,119
278,337
134,881
173,699
227,462
740,832

Minimum
payments

383,581
306,168
157,717
201,022
260,817
763,875

1,892,330

2,073,180

126,238
324,022
264,481
120,806
159,606
812,624

153,382
362,361
285,452
138,001
181,414
926,044

1,807,777

2,046,654

Borrowings are secured by property, plant and equipment of the Group (note 16(a)).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

149

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

37.  BORROWINGS (CONTINUED)

The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows:

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations

2016

US$

2.0%
2.4%

￡

–
–

2015

US$

1.9%
2.1%

￡

–
0.7%

The carrying amounts and fair values of the non-current borrowings are as follows:

US$’000

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations

Carrying amounts

Fair values

2016

1,934,061
1,555,211

2015

1,981,561
1,681,539

2016

1,932,904
1,550,622

2015

1,981,774
1,691,993

3,489,272

3,663,100

3,483,526

3,673,767

The fair values are based on cash flows discounted using rates based on the borrowing rates ranging from 2.1% to 3.9% (2015: 
2.0% to 3.7%).

The carrying amounts of short-term borrowings approximate their fair values.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Pound sterling

2016

4,090,737
–

4,090,737

2015

4,089,372
12,347

4,101,719

The  fixed  interest  rate  borrowings  of  the  Group  as  at  31st  December  2016  amounted  to  US$443.7  million  (2015:  US$389.4 
million). The remaining borrowings of US$3,647.0 million (2015: US$3,712.3 million) were subject to floating interest rates.

150

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

38.  CREDITORS AND ACCRUALS

US$’000

Trade payables
Other creditors
Accrued expenses
Deferred revenue

2016

198,819
102,116
354,239
40,723

695,897

The ageing analysis of the Group’s trade payables, prepared in accordance with the dates of invoices, is as follows:

US$’000

Below one month
Two to three months
Four to six months
Over six months

2016

142,754
44,932
656
10,477

198,819

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade payables are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Canadian dollar
Euro
Japanese yen
Hong Kong dollar
Renminbi
Other currencies

39.  AMOUNTS DUE TO JOINT VENTURES

The amounts payable are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.

2016

107,692
6,120
14,583
16,458
14,624
20,561
18,781

198,819

2015

193,401
108,928
377,630
70,419

750,378

2015

129,801
50,395
7,799
5,406

193,401

2015

91,001
10,307
18,499
21,280
14,602
21,373
16,339

193,401

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

151

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

40.  COMMITMENTS

(a)  Capital commitments – Property, plant and equipment

US$’000

Contracted but not provided for

(b)  Operating lease commitments

2016

663,951

2015

778,885

The future aggregate minimum lease rental expenses under non-cancellable operating leases are payable in the following 
years:

US$’000

At 31st December 2016

2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022 onwards

At 31st December 2015

2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021 onwards

Vessels and
equipment

Land and
buildings

145,136
89,135
67,095
64,770
44,043
26,167

436,346

194,705
126,409
89,334
67,212
64,755
69,759

612,174

28,954
18,679
15,750
12,015
10,729
24,885

111,012

34,708
26,150
15,441
12,955
11,089
36,548

136,891

Total

174,090
107,814
82,845
76,785
54,772
51,052

547,358

229,413
152,559
104,775
80,167
75,844
106,307

749,065

The  Group  entered  into  the  Preferential  Assignment  Agreement  (the  “Agreement”)  with  the  City  of  Long  Beach 
(“COLB”)  for  the  use  of  the  Middle  Harbor  Terminal  (the  “Terminal”)  in  Long  Beach,  California  USA  on  30th  April 
2012.  The  term  of  the  Agreement  is  40  years  commencing  on  1st  of  July  2011.  As  at  31st  December  2016,  the  Group 
signed  several  Amendments  to  Preferential  Assignment  Agreement  (the  “Amendment”)  with  COLB,  which  has 
amended certain terms within the Agreement and has altered the expected guaranteed minimum annual compensation 
to be made for the relevant period of the lease term.

The guaranteed minimum annual compensation is computed based on the guaranteed minimum annual compensation 
per  acreage  (ranging  from  US$180,000  to  US$270,000  in  the  first  5  years  of  the  lease)  multiplied  by  the  number 
of  acreages  of  the  Terminal  delivered,  which  is  subject  to  mutual  agreement  between  the  Group  and  COLB  along 
the  Terminal  construction  and  based  on  the  milestones  set  out  in  the  Agreement.  The  construction  is  expected  to 
be  completed  by  2020  and  the  estimated  number  of  acreages  of  the  Terminal  upon  completion  is  estimated  to  be 
approximately 304.7 acreages. As of 31st December 2016, the acreages of the Terminal used to determine the rental is 
193.0 acreages (31st December 2015: 98.8 acreages). The Group and COLB renegotiate the guaranteed minimum annual 
compensation per acre every 5 years which will not be less than the highest guaranteed minimum annual compensation 
in the previous 5 years.

152

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

40.  COMMITMENTS (CONTINUED)

(c)  Operating lease rental receivable

The  future  aggregate  minimum  lease  rental  income  under  non-cancellable  operating  leases  are  receivable  in  the 
following years:

US$’000

At 31st December 2016

2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022 onwards

As at 31st December 2015

2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021 onwards

Vessels and
equipment

Land and
buildings

28,772
23,486
20,472
18,212
15,964
24,130

Total

28,772
23,486
20,472
18,212
15,964
24,130

131,036

131,036

25,983
25,119
19,174
16,138
13,531
31,184

71,468
25,119
19,174
16,138
13,531
31,184

131,129

176,614

–
–
–
–
–
–

–

45,485
–
–
–
–
–

45,485

41.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT

(a)  Major non-cash transactions

During  the  year,  major  non-cash  transactions  included  the  inception  of  finance  leases  of  US$205.1  million  (2015: 
US$412.6  million)  and  non-cash  dividend  received  from  available-for-sale  financial  assets  of  US$14.3  million  (2015: 
US$16.8 million).

(b)  Analysis of cash and cash equivalents

US$’000

Bank balances and deposits maturing within three months  

from the date of placement

Bank overdrafts

2016

2015

1,625,219
–

1,625,219

1,737,525
(14)

1,737,511

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

153

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2016

2015

169,487

169,487

47
2,811,186
349
74

2,811,656

2,981,143

62,579
991,380

1,053,959

1,629,229

1,629,229

363
297,592

297,955

1,927,184

2,981,143

47
2,087,922
356
23,339

2,111,664

2,281,151

62,579
1,004,295

1,066,874

943,229

943,229

1,320
269,728

271,048

1,214,277

2,281,151

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

42.  COMPANY BALANCE SHEET

As at 31st December 2016

US$’000

ASSETS
Non-current assets
Subsidiaries

Current assets
Prepayments
Amounts due from subsidiaries
Restricted bank balances
Cash and bank balances

Total assets

EQUITY
Equity holders
Share capital
Reserves (note)

Total equity

LIABILITIES
Non-current liability
Amount due to a subsidiary

Current liabilities
Accruals
Amounts due to subsidiaries

Total liabilities

Total equity and liabilities

C C Tung
Alan Tung
Directors

154

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

42.  COMPANY BALANCE SHEET (CONTINUED)

Note:

Movements of reserves

Share

Contributed

redemption

Capital

US$’000

Balance at 31st December 2014

Total comprehensive income for the year

Transactions with owners

2014 final dividend

2015 interim dividend

premium

172,457

surplus

88,547

–

–

–

–

–

–

reserve

4,696

–

–

–

Balance at 31st December 2015

172,457

88,547

4,696

Total comprehensive loss for the year

Transactions with owners

2015 final dividend

–

–

–

–

–

–

Retained

profit

712,290

107,884

(21,400)

(60,179)

738,595

(1,311)

Total

977,990

107,884

(21,400)

(60,179)

1,004,295

(1,311)

(11,604)

(11,604)

Balance at 31st December 2016

172,457

88,547

4,696

725,680

991,380

Under  the  Companies  Act  of  Bermuda  and  the  Bye-laws  of  the  Company,  the  contributed  surplus  is  also  distributable. 
Accordingly,  total  distributable  reserves  of  the  Company  amount  to  US$814.2  million  as  at  31st  December  2016  (2015: 
US$827.1 million).

43.  APPROVAL OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 10th March 2017.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

155

 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures

as at 31st December 2016

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures

as at 31st December 2016

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of 
incorporation

Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries

Cargo System Warehouse and  

100

Transport Ltd.

3,000 ordinary shares 
HK$300,000

Investment holding and 
container transport

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Consolidated Leasing &  

Terminals, Inc.

Containers No. 1 Inc.

Containers No. 2 Inc.

100

100

100

Dongguan Orient Container Co. Ltd. 100

Far Gain Investment Ltd.

Glory Top Investment Ltd.

Goodrich Limited

100

100

100

Hai Dong Transportation Co. Ltd.

100

Kenwake Ltd.

Laronda Company Ltd.

LBCT LLC

100
100

100

100

Long Beach Container Terminal, Inc. 100

Loyalton Shipping Limited

100

Maritime Delivery Services Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1565A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1585A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1667A Shipping Inc.

100

1 common stock 
US$100

10,000 ordinary shares 
US$100,000

10,000 ordinary shares 
US$100,000

Registered capital 
HK$29,000,000

10,000 ordinary shares 
HK$10,000

10,000 ordinary shares 
HK$10,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

100,000 ordinary shares 
HK$100,000

1,600,000 ordinary shares
520,000 5% cumulative 
preference shares 
￡2,120,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Capital of 
US$500,000

5,000 common stock 
US$500,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

1,000 common stock 
US$10,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Investment holding, equipment 
owning and leasing

USA

USA

Equipment owning and leasing Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Equipment owning and leasing Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Container depot and 
warehousing

China *

China

Investment holding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Portfolio investment

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Commodity instruments for 
Group

Marshall Islands

Marshall Islands

Container transport

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Investment holding

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

Portfolio investment

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Terminal operating

Maintenance of union office 
workers and provision of  
labour services

USA

USA

USA

USA

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Trucking service

USA

USA

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

156

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2016

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of 
incorporation

Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Newcontainer 1668A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2002 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2004 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2005 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2007 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2010 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2011 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 5 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 6 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 9  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 10  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 15  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 31  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 32  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 51  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 52  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 53  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 56  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Ship owning

Liberia †

Liberia †

Worldwide

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

157

 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2016

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Newcontainer No. 67  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 69  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 70  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 73  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 75  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 78  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 80  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 81  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 82  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 83  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 85  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 86  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 93  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 95  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 96  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 97  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 98  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 99  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of 
incorporation

Area of operations

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

158

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2016

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of 
incorporation

Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Newcontainer No. 100  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 101  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 102  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 103  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

100

100

100

100

OLL Logistics (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

100

OOCL (Agencies) Ltd.

OOCL (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

100

100

OOCL (Assets) Holdings Inc.

100

OOCL (Assets USA) Holdings Inc.

100

OOCL (Australia) Pty Ltd.

OOCL BENELUX

OOCL (Cambodia) Ltd.

OOCL (Canada) Inc.

100

100

100

100

OOCL (China) Investment Ltd.

100

OOCL (Corporate Services) Limited 100

OOCL (Denmark) A/S

OOCL (Europe) Ltd.

100

100

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

10,000 ordinary shares 
RM10,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Malaysia

Malaysia

200 ordinary shares 
US$20,000

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

50,000 ordinary shares 
US$50,000

200,000 ordinary shares 
A$200,000

226,271 ordinary shares 
€609,799

50,000 ordinary shares 
Riel200,000,000

10,000 common stock 
C$91,000

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

1,000 ordinary shares 
DKK500,000

5,000,000 ordinary shares 
￡5,000,000

Investment holding

Bermuda

Worldwide

Transportation

Hong Kong

Asia Pacific

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Investment holding

Liberia †

USA

Liner agency

Australia

Australia

Liner agency

Belgium

Belgium

Liner agency

Cambodia

Cambodia

Liner agency

Canada

Canada

Investment holding

Hong Kong

China

Provision of corporate services

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Liner agency

Denmark

Northern Europe

Container transport, investment 
holding and liner territorial 
office

United Kingdom

Worldwide

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

159

 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2016

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of 
incorporation

Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

OOCL (Finland) Ltd. Oy

OOCL (India) Private Ltd.

100

100

OOCL (Infotech) Holdings Ltd.

100

OOCL (Ireland) Ltd.

OOCL (Italy) S.r.l.

OOCL (Korea) Ltd.

100

100

100

OOCL (Liners) Holdings Ltd.

100

OOCL (Logistics) Holdings Ltd.

100

OOCL (Mexico), S.A. de CV

OOCL (New Zealand) Ltd.

100

100

OOCL Pakistan (Private) Ltd.

100

OOCL (Philippines) Inc.

OOCL (Poland) Ltd sp. z o.o.

OOCL (Portugal), Lda

OOCL (Russia) Ltd.

OOCL (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

OOCL (Sweden) AB

OOCL (Switzerland) AG

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

150 ordinary shares 
€2,522.82

1,000 equity shares 
Rupees100,000

2 ordinary shares 
US$2

100 ordinary shares 
€125

1 quota 
€10,000

16,000 common stock 
Won160,000,000

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

10,000 ordinary shares 
US$10,000

600,000 ordinary shares 
Peso600,000

100 ordinary shares 
NZD1,000

1,350,000 ordinary shares 
PKR13,500,000

55,000 common stock 
Peso5,500,000

1,000 ordinary shares 
PLN50,000

2 quotas 
€25,000

1 participatory share 
Rub10,000

100,000 ordinary shares 
S$100,000

100,000 ordinary shares 
SEK100,000

200,000 ordinary shares 
CHF200,000

Liner agency

Finland

Finland

Liner agency

India

India

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

Ireland

Ireland

Liner agency

Liner agency

Italy

Korea

Italy

Korea

Investment holding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

Mexico

Mexico

Liner agency

New Zealand

New Zealand

Liner agency

Pakistan

Pakistan

Liner agency

Philippines

Philippines

Liner agency

Poland

Poland

Liner agency

Portugal

Portugal

Liner agency

Russia

Russia

Liner agency

Singapore

Singapore

Liner agency

Sweden

Sweden

Liner agency

Switzerland

Switzerland

160

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2016

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of 
incorporation

Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

OOCL (Taiwan) Co. Ltd.

100

10,000,000 ordinary shares 
NT$100,000,000

Liner agency

Taiwan

Taiwan

OOCL (Terminals) Investment Ltd.

100

OOCL (USA) Inc.

OOCL (Vietnam) Co. Ltd.

OOCL China Domestics Ltd.

OOCL LLC

OOCL Logistics Limited

100

100

100

100

100

OOCL Logistics (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

100

500 ordinary shares 
US$500

1,030 common stock 
US$1,030

Legal capital 
US$500,000

Registered capital 
RMB21,250,000

Capital of 
US$500,000

10,000 ordinary shares 
US$10,000

200 ordinary shares 
US$20,000

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

USA

USA

Liner agency

Vietnam

Vietnam

Transportation and freight 
agency

Investment holding and 
equipment owning

China ±

USA

China

USA

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Hong Kong

Investment holding, 
management of international 
transportation and logistics

Bermuda

Asia Pacific

OOCL Logistics (Australia)  

100

Pty. Limited

200,000 ordinary shares 
A$200,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Australia

Australia

OOCL Logistics (Cambodia) Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (Canada) Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (China) Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (Europe) Ltd.

100

1,250 ordinary shares 
Riel5,000,000

1,000 common stock 
C$1,000

Registered capital 
US$4,840,000

2 ordinary shares 
￡2

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Cambodia

Cambodia

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Canada

China *

Canada

China

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding territorial office

United Kingdom

Europe

OOCL Logistics (Hong Kong) Ltd.

100

50,000 ordinary shares 
HK$500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

OOCL Logistics (India) Private Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (Japan) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (Korea) Ltd.

100

100

35,000 equity shares 
Rupee3,500,000

200 ordinary shares 
Yen10,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

30,000 common stock 
Won300,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

India

Japan

Korea

OOCL Logistics Mexico, S.A. de CV 100

500,000 ordinary shares  
Peso500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Mexico

India

Japan

Korea

Mexico

OOCL Logistics Pakistan (Pvt) 

100

Limited

1,300,000 ordinary shares 
PKR13,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Pakistan

Pakistan

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

161

 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2016

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of 
incorporation

Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

OOCL Logistics (Russia) Limited

100

OOCL Logistics (Singapore) Pte Ltd. 100

1 share 
Rub10,000

2 ordinary shares 
S$2

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Russia

Russia

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Singapore

Singapore

OOCL Logistics (Taiwan) Ltd.

100

4,250,000 ordinary shares 
NT$42,500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Taiwan

Taiwan

OOCL Logistics (USA) Inc.

100

OOCL Logistics Line Limited

100

OOCL Logistics Warehousing and 

100

Transportation (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.

OOCL Logistics Warehousing and 
Transportation (Tianjin) Co. Ltd.

100

100 common stock 
US$200

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

Registered capital 
US$1,000,000

Registered capital 
US$4,700,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation, 
forwarding and investment 
holding

Transportation and freight 
forwarding

Warehousing and logistics 
services

Warehousing, transportation 
and logistics services

USA

Worldwide

Hong Kong

Worldwide

China *

China *

China

China

OOCL Transport & Logistics  

100

Holdings Ltd. #

169,477,152 ordinary shares 
US$169,477,152

Investment holding

Bermuda

Worldwide

OOCL Warehousing (Shanghai)  

100

Limited

OOIL (Investments) Inc. #

Orient Overseas Associates

Orient Overseas Building Corp.

100

100

100

Orient Overseas Container Line  

100

(China) Co. Ltd.

Registered capital 
US$10,000,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Warehousing and depot services China *

China

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Limited partnership

Property owning

Property owning

USA

USA

Liner agency

China *

10 common stock 
US$150,000

Registered capital 
US$3,400,000

USA

USA

China

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(Europe) Ltd.

66,000,000 ordinary shares 
￡66,000,000

Investment holding

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

500,000 ordinary shares 
RM500,000

Liner agency

Malaysia

Malaysia

Orient Overseas Container Line  

100

(Spain), S.L.

Orient Overseas Container Line  

100

(UK) Ltd.

Orient Overseas Container Line Inc. 100

3,100 ordinary shares 
€3,100

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$25,000,000

Liner agency

Spain

Spain

Ship management and vessel 
operator

Cayman Islands

Worldwide

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

162

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2016

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of 
incorporation

Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Container transport

Hong Kong

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Portfolio investment

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Provision of financing to Group Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Hong Kong

Worldwide

Investment holding

USA

USA

Orient Overseas Container Line Ltd. 100

Planet Era Limited

Soberry Investments Ltd.

The Speed Limited

Union Faith (H.K.) Limited

Wall Street Plaza, Inc.

100

100

100

100

100
100
100

100

100

100

10,000 ordinary shares 
HK$1,000,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

1 ordinary share 
HK$1

40 class A common stock
160 class B common stock
20,000 12% series A non-cumulative 
non-voting preferred stock
18,000 11% series B non-cumulative 
non-voting preferred stock
19,500 12% series C non-cumulative 
non-voting preferred stock
19,000 12% series D non-cumulative 
non-voting preferred stock 
US$76,500,200

Wealth Capital Corporation

100

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Associated companies

Ningbo Yuan Dong Terminal Ltd.

20

Tianjin Port Alliance International 
Container Terminal Co. Ltd.

20

Joint ventures

OOCL (Egypt) Shipping Agency  

49

S.A.E.

OOCL (UAE) LLC

Qingdao Orient International  

Container Storage &  
Transportation Co. Ltd.

49

59

Registered capital 
RMB2,500,000,000

Registered capital 
US$160,000,000

7,500 ordinary shares 
EGP750,000

300 ordinary shares 
AED300,000

Registered capital 
RMB69,900,000

Terminal operating

Terminal operating

Liner agency

Liner agency

China§

China§

Egypt

Dubai

Container depot

China §

China

China

Egypt

Dubai

China

#  Direct subsidiaries of the Company.
†  Companies incorporated in Liberia but redomiciled to the Marshall Islands.

*  Wholly foreign-owned enterprise.
 §  Sino-foreign equity joint venture enterprise.
 ±  Domestic joint venture enterprise.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

163

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fleet and Container Information

Fleet and Container Information

Fleet

The following table sets out the Group’s vessels as at 31st December 2016.

VESSEL NAME

OOCL America
OOCL Atlanta
OOCL Australia
OOCL Bangkok
OOCL Beijing
OOCL Belgium
OOCL California
OOCL Canada
OOCL Charleston
OOCL Chicago
OOCL Chongqing
OOCL Dalian
OOCL Guangzhou
OOCL Hamburg
OOCL Le Havre
OOCL London
OOCL Luxembourg
OOCL Malaysia (ex NYK Hyperion)
OOCL Memphis
OOCL Miami
OOCL Montreal
OOCL Nagoya
OOCL New York
OOCL Norfolk
OOCL Rotterdam
OOCL San Francisco
OOCL Seoul
OOCL Shanghai
OOCL Washington
OOCL Zhoushan
OOCL Asia
OOCL Berlin
OOCL Brisbane
OOCL Brussels
OOCL Busan
OOCL Egypt (ex NYK Hermes)
OOCL Europe
OOCL France (ex NYK Hercules)
OOCL Genoa
OOCL Ho Chi Minh City
OOCL Houston

TEU 
CAPACITY

OWNERSHIP

SERVICE IN 
WHICH USED

DATE 
PLACED IN 
SERVICE

5,344
8,063
4,583
13,208
8,888
2,808
5,344
8,888
4,578
5,714
13,208
4,578
4,578
8,063
4,578
8,063
8,063
13,208
8,888
8,888
4,402
4,578
5,770
4,578
8,063
5,714
8,063
5,770
8,063
4,583
8,063
13,208
4,578
13,208
4,578
13,208
8,063
13,208
8,888
8,888
4,578

Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease

Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia

1995
2005
2006
2013
2011
1998
1995
2011
2010
2000
2013
2009
2010
2004
2010
2010
2010
2013
2013
2013
2003
2009
1999
2009
2004
2000
2010
1999
2010
2006
2006
2013
2009
2013
2008
2013
2006
2013
2015
2015
2007

FLAG

Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong

164

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fleet and Container Information

VESSEL NAME

OOCL Jakarta
OOCL Kobe
OOCL Korea
OOCL New Zealand
OOCL Panama
OOCL Poland (ex NYK Helios)
OOCL Savannah
OOCL Singapore
OOCL Southampton
OOCL Taipei
OOCL Texas
OOCL Tokyo
OOCL Utah
OOCL Yokohama
Alidra
Argos
AS Riccarda
Ava D
BC Mumbai
Beatrice Schulte
Conmar Bay
Haydn
Hazel 1
Kuo Hung
Laila
Navi Baltic
New Hampshire Trader
OOCL Antwerp
OOCL Dubai
OOCL Istanbul (ex ZIM Kingston)
OOCL Italy
OOCL Kaohsiung
OOCL Kuala Lumpur
OOCL Long Beach
OOCL Ningbo
OOCL Novorossiysk (ex ZIM Dalian)
OOCL Oakland
OOCL Qingdao
OOCL Rauma (ex. Elysee)
OOCL Shenzhen
OOCL Taichung (ex. Sinar Batam)
OOCL Tianjin
OOCL Vancouver

TEU 
CAPACITY

OWNERSHIP

SERVICE IN 
WHICH USED

DATE 
PLACED IN 
SERVICE

FLAG

4,578
4,578
13,208
4,578
4,578
13,208
4,578
13,208
8,063
8,888
4,578
8,063
8,888
4,578
1,644
4,253
1,500
1,578
1,114
4,253
1,036
2,741
4,395
1,295
2,702
1,421
2,800
5,888
5,888
4,253
5,888
5,888
5,888
8,063
8,063
4,253
5,888
8,063
1,440
8,063
1,560
8,063
5,888

Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Europe
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia

2010
2007
2014
2009
2008
2013
2010
2014
2007
2015
2008
2007
2015
2007
2015
2016
2016
2015
2016
2016
2015
2016
2016
2014
2016
2013
2016
2006
2006
2013
2007
2006
2007
2003
2004
2013
2007
2004
2012
2003
2008
2014
2006

Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Liberia
Liberia
Antigua and Barbuda
Liberia
Antigua and Barbuda
Liberia
Antigua and Barbuda
Portugal
Marshall Islands
Panama
Portugal
Cyprus
Malta
Panama
Singapore
Malta
Singapore
Singapore
Singapore
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Malta
Panama
Hong Kong
The Netherlands
Hong Kong
Panama
Hong Kong
Panama

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

165

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fleet and Container Information

VESSEL NAME

Perla
Seaspan Lahore
Seaspan Lumaco
Seaspan Santos
SFL Avon
Spirit of Bangkok
ST Blue
Suez Canal
Sydney Trader
Teng Yun He
Tzini
Warnow Chief
TOTAL 96 VESSELS

TEU 
CAPACITY

OWNERSHIP

SERVICE IN 
WHICH USED

DATE 
PLACED IN 
SERVICE

1,118
4,253
4,258
4,253
1,740
1,620
2,535
5,610
5,047
1,702
1,756
1,500
574,318

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia

2012
2016
2016
2016
2015
2013
2016
2016
2016
2009
2016
2015

FLAG

Marshall Islands
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Marshall Islands
Marshall Islands
Liberia
Liberia
Malta
China
Malta
Cyprus

Container Information

The Group owned, purchased on finance lease terms or leased under operating lease agreements 628,051 units (1,031,583 TEU) as 
of 31st December 2016. Approximately 85.4% of the container fleet in TEU capacity was owned or purchased under finance leases 
with the remainder leased under operating lease agreements.

In addition, at 31st December 2016 the Group owned, purchased on finance lease terms or leased under operating lease terms 37 
trailer chassis.

166

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10-Year Financial Summary

10-Year Financial Summary

US$’000

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Consolidated Profit and Loss Data
Revenue
Operating (loss)/profit
Finance costs
(Loss)/profit before taxation
(Loss)/profit for the year from continuing 

operations

Profit/(loss) for the year from  

discontinued operations
(Loss)/profit for the year
(Loss)/profit attributable to ordinary shareholders
Per Ordinary Share

(Loss)/earnings (US cents)  
from continuing operations
from discontinued operations

Dividends (US cents)

Weighted average number of ordinary shares  

in issue (’000)

Consolidated Balance Sheet Data
Property, plant and equipment
Liquid assets
Assets held for sale
Liabilities directly associated with  
assets classified as held for sale
Other net current (liabilities)/assets
Total assets
Long-term debt
Total long and short-term debt
Net debt/(liquid assets)
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

Other Financial Information
Depreciation
Capital expenditure

Consolidated Financial Ratios/Percentages
Debt to equity ratio
Net debt/(cash) to equity ratio
Return on average ordinary  
shareholders’ equity (%)

Accounts payable as a % of revenue
Accounts receivable as a % of revenue
Net asset value per ordinary share (US$)

Note:

5,651,030
687,437
(99,078)
592,024

6,530,855
397,764
(81,016)
322,546

4,350,195
(332,237)
(35,347)
(361,870)

6,033,402
918,807
(29,091)
898,776

6,011,836
174,598
(26,179)
162,457

6,459,059
327,904
(32,877)
310,134

6,231,583
90,314
(41,019)
66,999

6,521,589
329,147
(54,000)
294,583

5,953,444
353,068
(63,642)
307,208

5,297,693
(138,227)
(79,393)
(199,667)

553,749

297,569

(376,104)

869,817

139,354

296,317

47,133

270,438

283,851

(219,221)

1,994,653
2,548,402
2,546,979

(22,040)
275,529
272,337

(24,501)
(400,605)
(402,294)

1,004,554
1,874,371
1,866,780

43,000
182,354
181,645

–
296,317
295,387

–
47,133
47,036

–
270,438
270,538

–
283,851
283,851

–
(219,221)
(219,221)

88.3
318.7
103.00

47.1
(3.6)
11.00

(60.4)
(3.9)
–

137.8
160.5
283.80

22.1
6.9
7.00

47.2
–
11.84

7.5
–
1.88

43.2
–
10.90

45.4
–
11.45

(35.0)
–
–

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

3,350,844
2,244,865
–

–
75,034
7,213,644
1,864,436
2,206,184
(38,681)
4,176,368

3,780,945
2,077,087
–

–
342,756
7,701,635
2,218,251
2,372,146
295,059
4,387,071

3,798,048
1,354,387
1,268,254

3,860,367
4,132,897
–

4,205,194
2,413,132
–

4,664,773
2,339,531
–

5,320,251
2,411,085
–

5,608,929
2,689,754
53,047

6,020,744
2,548,976
–

6,076,673
2,186,946
–

(142,406)
(582,807)
7,330,174
2,135,967
2,568,022
1,213,635
3,944,684

–
(475,304)
9,075,183
2,416,367
2,664,122
(1,468,775)
5,548,446

–
(543,133)
7,711,478
2,233,095
2,672,206
259,074
4,233,468

–
(654,625)
8,231,039
2,325,777
2,881,530
541,999
4,481,815

–
(473,105)
8,990,218
3,265,555
3,533,865
1,122,780
4,470,807

–
(628,393)
9,633,455
3,595,625
3,984,502
1,294,748
4,634,752

–
(622,964)
9,731,574
3,663,100
4,101,719
1,552,743
4,797,510

–
(738,046)
9,404,590
3,489,272
4,090,737
1,903,791
4,519,286

173,988
752,903

181,898
650,568

207,275
380,161

255,010
345,255

242,534
744,603

235,346
784,562

302,884
999,451

323,482
848,769

315,426
796,720

400,351
478,637

0.53
(0.01)

73.8
13.3
12.3
6.67

0.54
0.07

6.4
12.8
6.7
7.01

0.65
0.31

(9.7)
13.8
8.7
6.30

0.48
(0.26)

39.3
12.6
7.5
8.87

0.63
0.06

3.7
11.8
7.8
6.76

0.64
0.12

6.8
12.1
8.4
7.16

0.79
0.25

1.1
14.5
8.9
7.14

0.86
0.28

5.9
14.5
8.8
7.41

0.85
0.32

6.0
12.6
8.4
7.67

0.91
0.42

(4.7)
13.1
9.0
7.22

(1)  The results of discontinued operations prior to 2008 have not been restated or reclassified.
(2)  The accounting policy on HKAS 12 ‘Income taxes’ was changed in 2012 and the figures prior to 2010 have not been restated to reflect this change.
(3)  The accounting policy on HKAS 19 Amendment ‘Employee Benefits’ was changed in 2013 and the figures prior to 2011 have not been restated to 

reflect this change.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

167

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Information

Corporate Information

EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

PRINCIPAL REGISTRAR

SOLICITORS

Mr. Tung Chee Chen 
  (Chairman, President and
  Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan
  (Chief Financial Officer)

MUFG Fund Services
(Bermuda) Limited
  The Belvedere Building
  69 Pitts Bay Road
  Pembroke HM08
  Bermuda

NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

BRANCH REGISTRAR

Professor Roger King

INDEPENDENT NON-
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

Mr. Simon Murray
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard
Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward
Mr. Kwok King Man Clement

COMPANY SECRETARY

Ms. Lammy Lee

AUTHORISED 
REPRESENTATIVES
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan
Ms. Lammy Lee

PRINCIPAL OFFICE

33rd Floor
Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road, Wanchai
Hong Kong

REGISTERED OFFICE

Clarendon House
2 Church Street
Hamilton HM11
Bermuda

Computershare Hong Kong Investor
Services Limited
  Shops 1712-1716, 17th Floor
  Hopewell Centre
  183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai
  Hong Kong

LISTING EXCHANGE

The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong
Limited
Stock Code: 316

WEBSITE

http://www.ooilgroup.com

MAJOR BANKERS
Bank of America, N.A.
Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited
Citibank, N.A.
DBS Bank Limited
HSBC Holdings plc
HSH Nordbank
Overseas-Chinese Banking
  Corporation Limited
Standard Chartered Bank
(Hong Kong) Limited

Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Limited

Conyers Dill & Pearman
  Clarendon House
  2 Church Street
  Hamilton HM11
  Bermuda

  and at

  29th Floor, One Exchange Square
  8 Connaught Place
  Central
  Hong Kong

Ince & Co
  Suites 4404-10, 44th Floor
  One Island East
  18 Westlands Road, Taikoo Place
  Hong Kong

Slaughter and May
  47th Floor, Jardine House
  One Connaught Place
  Central
  Hong Kong

AUDITOR

PricewaterhouseCoopers
Certified Public Accountants
  22nd Floor
  Prince’s Building
  Central
  Hong Kong

168

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2016

 
 
 
Orient Overseas (International) Limited
(Incorporated in Bermuda with Limited Liability)

33rd Floor Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong   Telephone: (852) 2833 3838
www.ooilgroup.com

Design and Production by: A.Plus Financial Press Limited

This report is printed on paper in accordance with the standards below

Acid Free     Lignin Free     Dioxin Free     Biodegradable     ISO9001     ISO14001

