Corporate Profile

Corporate Profile

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (“OOIL”),  a  company 
with  US$6.1  billion  in  total  revenues,  has  principal  business 
activities  in  container  transport  and  logistics  services.  Listed  on 
The  Stock  Exchange  of  Hong  Kong,  the  OOIL  Group  has  more 
than 360 offices in over 70 countries/regions.

Orient  Overseas  Container  Line  and  OOCL  are  trade  names 
for  transportation  provided  separately  by  Orient  Overseas 
Container  Line  Limited  (“OOCLL”)  and  OOCL  (Europe) 
Limited  respectively  and  both  are  wholly-owned  subsidiaries 
of  OOIL.  OOCL  is  one  of  the  world’s  largest  integrated 
international  transportation,  logistics  and  terminal  companies, 
and  is  an  industry  leader  in  the  use  of  information  technology 
and  e-commerce  to  manage  the  entire  cargo  transport  process. 
OOCL’s  modern  fleet  today  includes  some  of  the  youngest, 
largest,  fuel  efficient,  and  environmentally  friendly  vessels 
carrying  cargo  on  hundreds  of  trade  routes  around  the  world, 
providing a vital link in Global Trade.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

 
Significant Events 2017

1
2
3
10
12
16
22
32
48
52
54

57
81
89
90
95

160

Contents

Contents
Financial Highlights
Significant Events – 2017
Chairman’s Statement
Operations Review
Major Customers and Suppliers
Corporate Responsibility
Financial Review
Board of Directors
Senior Management
Shareholder Section
54  Financial Calendar
55  Shareholder Information
Corporate Governance Report
Report of the Directors
Index – Financial Information
Independent Auditor’s Report
Consolidated Financial Statements
95  Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
96  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
97  Consolidated Balance Sheet
99  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
100  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
101  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
152  Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
Other Information
160  Fleet and Container Information
163  10-Year Financial Summary
164  Corporate Information

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

11

 
Financial Highlights

Financial Highlights

US$M

Consolidated Profit and Loss 
Revenue
Operating profit/(loss)
Revaluation of Wall Street Plaza
Finance costs
Profit/(loss) for the year

Consolidated Balance Sheet
Liquid assets
Property, plant and equipment
Total assets
Borrowings
Total liabilities
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

Consolidated Net Cash Flow
Operating activities
Investing activities
Financing activities
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

Key Ratios
Operating margin
Gross debt to equity
Net debt to equity
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share (US cents)
Net asset value per ordinary share (US dollar)

2017

6,108
232
43
(101)
138

2,534
6,251
10,069
4,554
5,387
4,683

370
(361)
305
314

4%
0.97
0.43
3%
22.0
7.48

2016

5,298
(138)
19
(79)
(219)

2,187
6,077
9,405
4,091
4,886
4,519

68
53
(240)
(119)

(3%)
0.91
0.42
(5%)
(35.0)
7.22

Increase/
(decrease) %

15%
N/M
135%
27%
N/M

16%
3%
7%
11%
10%
4%

444%
N/M
N/M
N/M

N/M
6%
1%
N/M
N/M
4%

US$M

300

200

100

0

-100

-200

-300

10%

5%

0%

-5%

-10%

US$

10

8

6

4

2

0

10%

8%

6%

4%

2%

0%

-2%

-4%

-6%

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

Profit/(loss) for the year (L.H.S.)

Operating margin (R.H.S.)

Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share (L.H.S.)

Return on Average Ordinary Shareholders’ Equity (R.H.S.)

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

2

 
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
Significant Events – 2017

Significant Events – 2017

JANUARY  1   2   3   4

OOCL  Logistics  (China)  Ltd.  was  among  the  few  enterprises  in  China 
to  have  successfully  obtained  credentials  as  an  Advanced  Certificate 
Enterprise (ACE) in December 2016, following a rigorous auditing process 
by the General Administration of China Customs. This top accreditation as 
an Authorised Economic Operator (AEO) can offer customers speedy and 
simplified customs clearance for a more efficient supply chain flow.

1

OOCL  was  bestowed  the  Social  Capital  Builder  Logo  Award  2016  organised  by  the  Community 
Investment  and  Inclusion  Fund  of  the  Labour  and  Welfare  Bureau  of  the  Hong  Kong  SAR 
Government  on  6th  January.  Since  2012,  this  biennial  award  recognises  organisations  that 
contribute  to  building  strong  network  and  relationships  among  the  people  who  live  and  work  in 
Hong Kong, and OOCL was recognised for our proactive role in this aspect of our corporate social 
responsibility initiative.

3

On  22nd  January, OOCL Taipei  became  the  first  vessel  to  utilise  shore 
power  at  the  Da  Chan  Bay  terminal  in  Shenzhen,  China,  as  soon  as  the 
Alternate  Maritime  Power  (AMP)  facility  there  became  available.  By 
switching to shore power when at berth, OOCL was proud to lead the way 
in helping improve the air quality at the Da Chan Bay port community.

4

FEBRUARY  5
OOCL  announced  the  combining  of  its  AAA1  and  AAA2 
service  loops  in  its  Southeast  Asia–Australia  service  into 
one  upsized  product  called  the  New  AAA  to  provide  a 
more comprehensive service network in the market served 
by six post Panamax containerships. The upgraded service 
commenced from Laem Chabang in April.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

33

2

5

 
Significant Events – 2017

Significant Events – 2017

6

7

MARCH  6   7   8   9
Effective 1st April, OOCL expanded service coverage to markets in the Red Sea by introducing the Asia-Red Sea 1 (RS1) 
and  Asia-Red  Sea  2  (RS2)  products  that  includes  port  calls  to  various  strategic  locations  in  the  region,  such  as  Jeddah, 
Aqaba, Sokhna, Port Sudan, and Djibouti.

On 1st March, OOCL and Kaohsiung Container Terminal received 
the  “Golden  Vessel  Awards”  from  the  Taiwan  International  Ports 
Corporation  for  operationally  efficient  and  environmentally 
friendly initiatives in reducing emissions.

CargoSmart  announced  the  launch 
of  Route  Master,  the  first  tool  of 
its  kind  that  offers  shippers  and 
logistics  service  providers  greater 
visibility  over  carriers’  services  and 
performance  by  leveraging  big  data 
analytics.  Based  on  customised 
parameters  including  transit  time,  reliability,  cost  and  carriers, 
shippers  can  make  more  informed  decisions  in  choosing  the  best 
options for their supply chains.

9

8

APRIL  10   11
OOCL  announced  the  introduction  of  a  new  service  to  our  Intra-Europe  Network,  the  North  Europe–Turkey  service 
(NET). The new service commenced from Felixstowe on 8th April, providing a fixed day, weekly direct service covering 
all the key markets with competitive transit times between North Europe and Istanbul, Izmit and Izmir.

10

11

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

4

 
Significant Events – 2017

MAY  12   13   14   15   16
O O CL  announced  the  naming  of  our  latest 
cont ainership,  t he  OOCL Hong Kong,  at  a 
christening  ceremony  held  at  the  Samsung  Heavy 
Industries  (SHI)  shipyard  on  Geoje  Island,  South 
Korea  on  12th  May.  With  a  carrying  capacity  of 
21,413  TEU,  the OOCL Hong Kong  was  celebrated 
as one of the largest containerships in the world and 
the  first  vessel  to  cross  the  21,000  TEU  mark.  We 
were  very  honoured  to  have  Mrs.  Mylene  Seah  as 
the Vessel Sponsor and her husband, Mr. Peter Seah, 
Chairman of DBS Bank, as our Guest of Honour.

12

On 24th May, the 13,208 TEU OOCL France became the largest 
containership  to  transit  the  expanded  Panama  Canal  during  her 
northbound  passage  from  the  Pacific  Ocean,  serving  OOCL’s 
weekly East Coast Express 1 (ECX1) service.

13

OOCL  Logistics  in  China  successfully  achieved  the  RSQAS  (Road  Safety 
Quality  Assessment  System)  certification  following  a  strict  audit  process  to 
evaluate the quality, safety, security, and environmental performance of its road 
transportation  services.  The  RSQAS  is  a  certification  program  of  the  AICM 
(Association  of  International  Chemical  Manufacturers)  and  the  success  in 
achieving  this  certification  will  help  OOCL  Logistics  improve  its  competitive 
position  in  the  industry  and  secure  business  prospects  with  chemical  giants 
looking for quality and reliable services.

O O CL  enhanced  our  ser vices  in  the  United 
Kingdom  by  offering  direct  calls  to  the  Port  of 
Felixstowe,  a  strategic  gateway  where  we  can  leverage 
the  comprehensive  transportation  network  and 
connections through rail and trucks to offer customers 
best-in-class  products  and  services  in  the  region.

Two  new  products,  the  Indonesia  Thailand  Straits 
Service (ITS) and Vietnam Johor Straits service (VJS) 
were  introduced  to  our  Intra-Asia  service  network 
to  enhance  our  product  portfolio  in  meeting  the 
requirements  of  customers  trading  in  Indonesia, 
Thailand,  Vietnam,  Malaysia  and  Singapore.  The 
ITS  commenced  service  on  3rd  May  while  the  VJS 
became effective on 11th June.

14

15

16

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

55

Significant Events – 2017

JUNE  17   18   19   20
OOCL  received  a  Level  A  rating  in  the  BICEPS  (Boosting  Initiatives  for  Collaborative 
Emissions-reduction with the Power of Shippers) assessment for our sustainability efforts. 
The  BICEPS  rating  system  (from  Levels  A  to  F,  where  A  is  the  highest  possible  rating) 
was  launched  in  2015  to  boost  initiatives  and  create  momentum  for  the  implementation 
of  sustainability  solutions  in  the  shipping  sector  and  helping  shippers  choose  more 
sustainable ocean freight carriers.

17

On  22nd  June,  the OOCL Hong Kong 
made  histor y  by  being  the  largest 
containership  in  the  world  to  serve  the 
European  market  through  her  maiden 
call  at  the  Port  of  Felixstowe  in  the 
United Kingdom.

18

19

In  response  to  a  cyber-attack  that  hit 
a  major  international  carrier  which 
significantly  impacted  its  operations 
a r o u n d   t h e   w o r l d ,   C a r g o S m a r t 
launched  a  new  tool  called  the  “Live 
Incident  Monitoring  Dashboard”  to 
help  the industry track the latest  status 
of  the  impacted  vessels  and  terminals. 
Through analysing a massive amount of 
data, the Dashboard is able to present it 
into  different  viewing  formats,  such  as 
Vessel  View,  Terminal  View,  Port  Stay/
Waiting Time View, and Live Port View. 
The  Dashboard  publishes  its  latest 
findings twice a day, seven days a week.

20

21

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

6

JULY  21
On  9th  July,  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  Co.,  Ltd.  (COSCO 
SHIPPING), Shanghai International Port (Group) Co., Ltd. (SIPG), and 
Orient  Overseas  (International)  Ltd.  (OOIL)  jointly  announced  that 
COSCO  SHIPPING  and  SIPG  have  made  a  pre-conditional  voluntary 
general  offer  to  all  shareholders  of  OOIL  to  acquire  all  issued  OOIL 
shares at an offer price of HK$78.67 for each OOIL share.

On  17th  July,  the  13,208  TEU  containership OOCL Berlin  became 
the largest containership ever to call at the Port of New York and New 
Jersey  following  the  newly  elevated  Bayonne  Bridge  from  151  feet  to 
215  feet,  allowing  larger  vessels  such  as  the OOCL Berlin  to  transit 
underneath.  This  event  also  marks  the  beginning  for  international 
carriers to deploy larger vessels of up to 18,000 TEU size containerships 
to the Port of New York and New Jersey as cargo demand grows.

Significant Events – 2017

AUGUST  22
Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  and  its  subsidiaries  (the  “Group”)  announced  a  profit  attributable  to  equity 
holders of US$53.6 million for the six-month period ended 30th June 2017, compared with loss of US$56.7 million for 
the same period in 2016 in its interim results announcement.

On  22nd  August,  OOCL  celebrated 
the  christening  of OOCL Germany, 
the  second  21,413  TEU  newbuilding 
b u i l t   a t   t h e   S a m s u n g   H e a v y 
Industries  shipyard  on  Geoje  Island. 
The vessel was named by Mrs. Akiyo 
Moue,  wife  of  Mr.  Nozomi  Moue, 
Managing  Exec utive  Of f icer  of 
Shinsei Bank.

OOCL  announced  its  achievement 
in  not  only  meeting  the  Greenhouse 
Gas (GHG) Scopes 1 and 2 inventory 
verification  requirements  that  was 
announced  last  year,  but  also  for 
Scope  3  by  focusing  on  indirect 
emissions  associated  to  air  travel  by 
employees  of  its  Hong  Kong  office 
as  defined  in  the  “Greenhouse  Gas 
Protocol  –  A  Corporate  Accounting 
and Reporting Standard”.

22

23

24

SEPTEMBER  23   24   25   26   27   28
On  1st  September,  OOCL  commemorated 
the  christening  of OOCL Japan  at  the 
Samsung  Heavy  Industries  shipyard  on 
Geoje  Island  and  also  announced  that 
her  sister  vessel,  the OOCL Hong Kong, 
was  officially  confirmed  to  receive  the 
Guinness  World  Records  title  as  the 
world’s  largest  containership  by  carry 
capacity at 21,413 TEU.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

77

Significant Events – 2017

25

26

On 2nd September, CargoSmart organised its third successful public IT event with the theme “Digital Innovation – Being 
Competitive Now and in the Future” at the Hong Kong Science Park. The conference was able to showcase CargoSmart’s 
visionary approach to IT and its innovative culture to the public and professional community.

OOIL became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), 
the  largest  corporate  sustainability  initiative  in  the  world  with  more 
than  9,500  participating  companies  in  over  160  countries.  Being  the  first 
Hong  Kong-based  enterprise  in  the  international  and  logistics  industry 
to  participate  in  this  initiative,  OOIL  is  committed  to  supporting  the  Ten 
Principles  of  the  UNGC  that  sets  out  fundamental  responsibilities  in  areas 
such as human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.

28

27

On  27th  September,  OOCL  commemorated  the  christening  of  its  fourth  21,413 
TEU newbuilding in the line of six built by the Samsung Heavy Industries shipyard. 
The OOCL United Kingdom was named by our Sponsor, Mrs. Tamiko Onaka, wife 
of Mr. Koichi Onaka, Managing Executive Officer of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, 
who was our Guest of Honour at the ceremonial event.

OCTOBER  29
OOCL  took  top  honours  at  the  Singapore  Environmental 
Achievement  Awards  (SEAA)  ceremony  held  at  the 
Singapore  Environmental  Council’s  (SEC)  Conference  Day 
event  on  13th  October.  Presented  with  the  “Outstanding 
Singapore  Environmental  Achievement  Award”,  this 
recognition  honours  one  top  performer  amongst  all 
the  SEAA  categories  demonstrating  commitment  to 
environmental  excellence  and  protection  of  the  natural 
environment.  OOCL  was  also  a  winner  in  the  SEAA 
Maritime  sector  category  which  recognises  a  maritime 
company that has strong management policies in place and 
also  focuses  on  industry  leading  initiatives  and  continuous 
innovation in its sustainability work.

29

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

8

Significant Events – 2017

NOVEMBER  30   31
On  16th  November,  OOCL  took  home  two  trophies,  namely  the  “Customer  Service  Award” 
and  the  “Liner  Trade  Award:  Australia-South  East  Asia”  at  the  22nd  Australian  Shipping  and 
Maritime  Industry  Awards  hosted  by  the  Daily  Cargo  News  (formerly Lloyd’s List Australia). 
Receiving  these  awards  is  a  testament  of  our  continuous  innovation  for  industry  leading 
products as well as our dedication and success in serving our customers.

30

OOCL was awarded with the “Certificate of Excellence” and the “Special Recognition for Creative Sustainability Idea” at 
the inaugural Hong Kong Sustainability Award 2016/17 ceremony organised by the Hong Kong Management Association 
on  16th  November.  OOCL  stood  out  as  the  only  one  out  of  seven  organisations  receiving  two  awards  which  aimed  at 
benchmarking organisations’ sustainability practices in economic, social and environmental aspects while achieving good 
business and organisational performance.

On  21st  November,  OOCL  introduced  the OOCL Scandinavia,  the  fifth 
21,413  TEU  newbuilding  of  the  six  on  order  at  the  Samsung  Heavy 
Industries  shipyard,  into  our  fleet  of  world  trade  ambassadors.  We  were 
very  honoured  to  have  Mr.  Yue  Yi,  Vice  Chairman,  Executive  Director 
and  Chief  Executive  of  the  Bank  of  China  (Hong  Kong)  Ltd,  join  us  as 
our Guest of Honour and to witness the christening of the vessel.

31

DECEMBER  32   33   34   35
OOCL  announced  the  launch  of  our  new  China  Pakistan  Express  2  (CPX2)  and 
China  Pakistan  Express  3  (CPX3)  products  to  enhance  our  Intra-Asia  network. 
The  first  sailings  for  both  services  started  on  12th  December  from  Shanghai, 
where the CPX2 offers competitive and direct services from Xiamen to Karachi as 
well as Karachi to Shanghai, while the CPX3 provided additional sailing frequency 
from Central China to Mundra. Together with our China Pakistan Express (CPX) 
product, we are able to offer a very comprehensive network with three sailings per 
week from Asia to Pakistan.

32

Following  the  success  of  the  Day  One  products  introduced  in  April  2017,  OOCL  was  pleased  to  announce  the 
forthcoming launch of the second phase of the OCEAN Alliance products in April 2018, an improved suite of products 
providing industry-leading services to customers.

33

34

35

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

99

Chairman’s Statement

Chairman’s Statement

“

Against this gradually improving economic background, 
and in the context of a consolidating industry, the 
future for OOIL appears to me to be promising. We are 
well placed to continue to grow, and look forward to 
maintaining our track record of being amongst the most 
consistently highest performers in the industry.”

Tung Chee Chen
Chairman and CEO

 
Chairman’s Statement

The  economic  backdrop  for  2017  was  more  robust  than 
forecasters  had  expected.  Following  a  decade  of  low  growth, 
we saw healthier performance in both GDP and trade volumes 
across  most  of  the  world’s  major  economies.  This  was  a 
welcome change after the industry’s low point of 2016.

The  second  phase  of  our  Middle  Harbor  Redevelopment 
Project  in  California  commenced  operations  towards  the  end 
of  2017.  We  are  delighted  with  the  progress  made  so  far,  and 
already  feel  the  benefit  of  greater  efficiency  through  welcome 
cost gains.

This  synchronicity  of  growth,  a  rare  phenomenon  in  recent 
memory, may bode well for the sustainability of the recovery.

However, growth on the supply side continues across the trade 
lanes.  Even  if  the  ordering  of  new  vessels  remains  muted  in 
relative  terms,  upsizing  of  capacity  continues  in  certain  key 
routes.  Ultra-large  vessels  ordered  in  the  past  few  years  are 
now being delivered and brought into operation. Furthermore, 
as trade growth improves, the industry continues to introduce 
additional services using cascaded or previously idled capacity.

This  combination  of  better  economic  growth  and  continuing 
(if  moderated)  growth  in  supply,  along  with  higher  bunker 
prices,  means  that  for  OOIL  and  our  peers,  the  environment 
remains  merely  one  of  gradual  recovery,  not  the  boom  that 
some  analysts  expected  when  improved  economic  data  first 
started to appear.

Once  the  large  new  vessels  scheduled  to  be  delivered  in  2018 
have been brought into service, with a comparatively low order 
book for 2019 and 2020, and taking into account the improved 
economic  data,  we  are  hopeful  that  the  industry  may  start  to 
enjoy  greater  stability  than  it  has  done  for  many  years.  In  the 
meantime, we maintain a positive, if somewhat cautious, stance.

I  am  pleased  to  report  that  OOIL  generated  a  profit 
attributable  to  shareholders  for  2017  of  US$137.7  million 
(2016:  loss  of  US$219.2  million),  with  earnings  per  ordinary 
share for 2017 of US22.0 cents (2016: loss per ordinary share of 
US35.0 cents).

After  consultation  with  the  Offerors,  in  accordance  with  the 
Joint  Announcement  dated  7th  July  2017,  the  Board  does  not 
recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year.

2017  has  been  a  year  of  considerable  growth  for  the  group.  I 
am pleased to note that this growth has been achieved without 
a  deleterious  effect  on  the  profit  and  loss  account.  We  have 
now  taken  delivery  of  all  six  of  our  21,413  TEU  ships,  with 
these  titans  of  the  sea  providing  us  not  only  with  additional 
capacity, but also with a more efficient cost base.

One of the cornerstone strategies for many years of the OOIL 
group has been to work in alliance. We are now almost into the 
second  year  of  the  Ocean  Alliance  with  COSCO,  CMA  CGM 
and  Evergreen.  Alliance  membership  continues  to  deliver 
meaningful  benefits  in  terms  of  network  and  scale,  and  very 
much remains part of delivering our growth strategy.

The  liner  industry  has  continued  its  path  towards  greater 
consolidation,  a  path  that  no  doubt  has  further  to  run.  No 
small  part  of  that  process  is  the  joint  offer  (the  “Offer”) 
by  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  Co.,  Ltd.  and  Shanghai 
International Port (Group) Co., Ltd. for the shares of OOIL. At 
the time of writing, work continues on satisfying the final pre-
conditions relating to this voluntary general offer.

I  continue  to  believe  that  the  Offer  provides  OOIL  and  the 
China  COSCO  Shipping  Group  an  opportunity  to  build  upon 
the  strengths  of  both  sides,  and  thereby  to  create  not  only  a 
global  leader,  but  also  one  of  the  most  efficient,  effective  and 
profitable  liner  services  in  the  industry.  Scale  is  important  in 
container  shipping,  as  it  always  has  been,  but  it  is  arguably 
more  important  now  than  ever  before.  The  Offer  gives  OOIL 
the chance to step up in scale at a most opportune time.

OOCL  Logistics  (“OLL”)  continues  to  develop  steadily  and 
profitably.  The  profitability  of  OLL’s  domestic  logistics 
activities  improved.  OLL’s  core  business  of  managing  the 
international supply chains of large retailers in North America 
and  Europe  retained  its  role  as  the  key  profit  driver.  The  goal 
is to build and grow the business, in what is unquestionably a 
highly competitive market.

Tying  together  the  success  of  these  three  strands,  our  liner 
activities,  our  terminal  activities  and  our  logistics  activities, 
are  many  things,  not  least  the  OOCL  take  it  personally  spirit, 
which  applies  to  everything  we  do,  from  delivering  quality 
service  to  handling  customer  relationships  and  managing 
costs.  A  key  element  of  being  able  to  deliver  this  total  service 
is our approach to digital technology. In addition to enhancing 
supply  chain  visibility  for  customers,  we  are  also  embracing 
the  use  of  data  analytics  to  enhance  yield  management  and 
internal  operating  efficiencies.  The  OOIL  group  remains  fully 
committed to continuing its quest to invest in the development 
of digital technology.

The  future  of  container  shipping  demands  a  seamless 
interface  not  only  between  the  different  steps  on  the  journey 
of  each  box,  but  also  between  all  parties  involved.  Our  goal 
is  to  achieve  total  integration  of  supply  chains,  and  of  the 
communication between all the moving parts therein, thereby 
generating  cost  and  efficiency  gains  for  all  stakeholders  along 
the logistics supply chain.

Against  this  gradually  improving  economic  background,  and 
in  the  context  of  a  consolidating  industry,  the  future  for  OOIL 
appears to me to be promising. We are well placed to continue to 
grow, and look forward to maintaining our track record of being 
amongst the most consistently highest performers in the industry.

With  2018  benefitting  from  being  the  first  full  year  of 
operation  for  our  new  mega  vessels,  and  against  the 
background  of  improved  economic  growth,  we  shall  continue 
to grow throughout 2018.

C C Tung
Chairman

Hong Kong, 9th March 2018

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

11

Operations Review

Operations Review

“

The container transportation industry 
enjoyed markedly better trading 
conditions in 2017 than it had in 2016.”

 
Operations Review

CONTAINER TRANSPORT
The container transportation industry enjoyed markedly better 
trading conditions in 2017 than it had in 2016.

During  the  last  few  months  of  2016,  which  had  been  a  truly 
terrible year for container shipping, we had begun to see small 
signs  of  improvement.  Load  factors  started  to  stabilise,  and 
rates  left  their  relentless  downward  trajectory.  By  this  point, 
the  pressure  on  market  container  shipping  companies  had 
become so great that not only had some of the more predatory 
pricing  seen  in  the  market  ceased  to  appear  (because  it  was 
unsustainable), but also the first collapse of a sizeable container 
line in recent times occurred.

Around  the  time  of  this  same  turning  point,  we  witnessed 
a  positive  and  extremely  welcome  change  in  the  strength  of 
global  economic  growth,  both  in  terms  of  GDP  and  in  terms 
of cargo volumes. For the first time in perhaps a decade, cargo 
volume growth returned to being a multiple of GDP.

This  change  in  market  direction,  which  began  during  some 
of  the  worst  markets  ever  endured  in  container  shipping, 
continued and strengthened throughout most of 2017.

Initial  response  to  this  improved  situation  was  perhaps 
excessively  exuberant.  A  number  of  analysts  noticed  strong 
statistics  and  forecast  a  return  to  some  form  of  boom  for 
container  shipping.  This  reaction,  coming  after  the  travails 
of  2016,  can  easily  be  understood,  especially  when  looking  at 
growth  levels  on  the  major  East-West  trades  that  are  much 
better than seen for a number of years.

However, the reality of the freight rate market in 2017 was one 
of  a  slow  but  relatively  sustained  recovery.  It  is  likely  true  to 
say  that  rates  would  have  been  better  if  there  had  been  fewer 
new vessels being delivered, but this conveys a pessimism that 
is  probably  not  warranted.  It  is  no  less  true,  and  rather  more 
optimistic, to say that strong cargo volume growth during 2017 
has helped the industry to absorb the introduction of new large 
vessels as well as the reintroduction of a lot of capacity that had 
previously been idled.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

1313

Operations Review

On the basis of the data that continues to be strong in almost 
all  of  the  major  economies,  taking  into  account  the  relative 
lack of ordering of newbuildings, and bearing in mind that the 
industry has already advanced considerably from its previously 
extremely fragmented context, it would seem that this slow but 
steady recovery could continue throughout 2018.

In  this  much  improved  context,  OOIL  was  able  to  generate  a 
profit for the year, in a very significant turnaround of fortunes 
from 2016.

Despite  our  higher  mix  of  volume  in  the  US  and  European 
markets  generated  through  our  growth  in  East-West  trade 
capacity,  costs  have  remained  largely  under  control.  We  look 
forward  to  continuing  to  achieve  cost  efficiencies,  not  least 
on  account  of  our  new  larger  vessels.  Furthermore,  our  Long 
Beach Container Terminal is creating welcome and significant 
cargo cost reductions.

It is certainly true that bunker prices rose materially from their 
low point in early 2016 to where they finished 2017. However, 
while any increase in cost is not exactly welcome, the increase 
in revenue has outweighed this additional outlay. Furthermore, 
extremely  low  oil  prices  can  cause  market  distortions  in  the 
freight  rate,  and  are  thus  not  an  entirely  unmitigated  benefit. 
That is to say that, although low prices enable liner companies 
to tolerate unsustainably low rates for longer, they can equally 
lead to the kind of downward price spirals seen in 2016, where 
some  companies  feel  emboldened  to  accept  absurdly  low 
market rates in order to win market share.

OOCL Liner
1Q17 v 1Q16
2Q17 v 2Q16
3Q17 v 3Q16
4Q17 v 4Q16
Total

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

14

One  of  the  major  operational  achievements  of  2017  was  the 
launching of services under the newly formed Ocean Alliance. 
This  the  most  dramatic  change  of  the  industry’s  alliance 
structure in many years, indeed perhaps ever. Coming towards 
the end of the first year of operation, OOCL can clearly feel the 
benefits  that  alliance  membership  brings  in  terms  of  network 
planning,  network  scope,  utilisation  and  the  management 
of  business  risk.  The  network  for  our  alliance’s  second  year 
of  operation  has  been  planned,  and  we  look  forward  to 
gaining  ever  increasing  benefit  through  these  new  enhanced 
arrangements.

2017  was  a  year  of  tremendous  growth  for  OOCL  in  both 
European  and  US  bound  trades.  For  the  full  year  2017, 
OOCL’s  liftings  were  up  3.6%  overall,  but  16.3%  on  Trans-
Pacific  and  19.7%  on  Asia-Europe.  This  growth  outpaced  the 
already  strong  volume  growth  seen  in  the  market  as  a  whole. 
Our  Intra-Asia  liftings  fell  by  11.2%,  but  this  was  a  deliberate 
strategy  imposed  following  a  review  of  certain  unprofitable 
routes  –  we  are  pleased  with  the  turnaround  in  Intra-Asia 
trade performance seen since our network was restructured.

The  second  phases  of  our  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  in 
California  came  into  operation  in  the  fourth  quarter  of  the 
year.  We  look  forward  to  continued  efficiency  gains  and  cost 
savings,  now  on  a  much  larger  scale.  Full  completion  of  the 
project is scheduled for 2021.

TEU
7.0%
6.6%
5.0%
(3.3%)
3.6%

Growth in 2017
Revenue
6.4%
23.8%
26.5%
6.0%
15.4%

Revenue/TEU
(0.6%)
16.2%
20.6%
9.6%
11.4%

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operations Review

Trade

Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia/Australasia

Total

LIFTING (’000 TEU)

REVENUE (US$ million)

2017

1,812
1,138
430
2,919

6,299

2016

1,558
951
396
3,176

6,081

Variance

16.3%
19.7%
8.7%
(8.1%)

3.6%

2017

2,067
1,102
495
1,761

5,425

2016

1,723
766
517
1,695

4,701

Variance

19.9%
43.9%
(4.3%)
3.9%

15.4%

Trans-Pacific  –  The  clearest  example  of  the  kind  of  slow  and 
steady recovery that marks 2017 is the Trans-Pacific trade. The 
low  contract  rates  agreed  in  early  2016  weighed  on  the  P&L 
for  the  trade  until  April  2017.  However,  with  the  spot  market 
improving from the fourth quarter of 2016, and continuing to 
improve  (ignoring  seasonal  effects)  through  the  third  quarter 
of  2017,  performance  has  improved.  Contract  rates  agreed  in 
early 2017 also brought further improvement from around the 
middle of the year, even if the improvement was small.

The real surprise has been the remarkably strong cargo volume 
growth.  In  this  area,  as  with  many  other  economic  indicators, 
the  US  economy  appears  to  be  much  stronger  than  most 
analysts had predicted. While the potential threat of new trade 
barriers, in one form or another, remains, the growth appears to 
be  continuing,  and  may  even  be  enhanced  by  tax  reforms  that 
could lead to greater consumer and corporate spending power.

OOCL’s  market  share  of  Trans-Pacific  cargo  is  now  6.5%,  the 
highest it has ever been. This position follows a year of OOCL 
cargo volume growth being at 16.3% in Trans-Pacific trade. We 
anticipate  that  2018  will  also  be  a  year  of  meaningful  growth 
for OOCL on these tradelanes.

Asia-Europe – By the end of 2016, the European economy had 
started to show the first signs of generating some growth, after 
several years of weak performance with only occasional bursts 
of better results. However, 2017 surprised to the upside.

During  2017,  cargo  volume  growth  on  the  Asia-Europe  trade 
reached over 4%, and remained consistently at or around that 
level.  Economic  performance  in  most  European  countries 
started to improve, with generally encouraging indicators. The 
UK’s  Brexit  vote  turned  out  not  to  have  had  the  doomladen 
dramatic  effect  that  some  commentators  had  predicted. 
Consumer confidence, and even corporate confidence, started 
to return.

At  the  start  of  the  year,  the  Europe  to  Asia  “backhaul”  cargo 
volumes  were  also  very  strong.  In  recent  years,  we  had 
witnessed  the  backhaul  rates  sometimes  being  stronger  than 
the headhaul rates, for the reason that the headhaul rates were 
just  so  weak  –  but  at  times  in  2017,  particularly  in  the  early 
part of the year, we saw genuine strength in both the headhaul 
and the backhaul.

This much rosier situation has not led to record high rates, not 
by any measure. Large vessels ordered some years ago continued 
to  be  delivered  during  the  year,  leading  to  greater  supply 
side  growth  that  more  or  less  matched  demand  side  growth.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

1515

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operations Review

Trans-Atlantic  –  The  trend  of  recent  years,  with  this  trade 
being  more  and  more  imbalanced  between  westbound  and 
eastbound  cargo  continues.  However,  like  other  trades,  very 
decent levels of cargo volume growth (7.3% on Trans-Atlantic, 
for  the  industry  as  a  whole)  have  helped  the  industry  to 
withstand the challenges brought about by the introduction of 
new capacity.

Intra-Asia  and  Australasia  –  The  Intra-Asia  trade  suffered 
in  2016.  As  a  result  of  this,  we  conducted  an  in-depth  review 
of  all  our  Intra-Asia  tradelanes,  looking  at  capacity,  alliance 
or  slot-sharing  arrangements,  routings  and  port  calls,  among 
other  things.  This  review  resulted  in  a  reduction  of  the 
services  we  provide  on  some  routes.  At  the  same  time,  we 
have  introduced  a  number  of  new  or  upscaled  services  in 
areas where performance is better. The outcome has been very 
positive,  as  our  Intra-Asia  Revenue  per  TEU  data  suggests. 
Moreover,  during  2017,  and  despite  a  poor  start,  the  Intra-
Asia trade has gradually picked itself up, month by month. At 
the  start  of  the  year,  year-to-date  cargo  volume  growth  was 
in  negative  double  figures,  but  by  the  end  of  the  year,  growth 
had  returned  to  positive.  As  the  East-West  trades  continue 
to  hold  at  decent  levels,  and  as  Asian  growth  in  certain  key 
economies appears to improve, we look forward to continuing 
improvement for our Intra-Asia Trade.

Another  pleasing  surprise  has  been  the  performance  of  the 
Australian  trades.  After  a  tough  couple  of  years,  perhaps 
driven  by  the  commodity  cycle,  Australian  economic 
performance  has  rebounded.  Australia  cargo  volumes  have 
improved commensurately.

MAJOR CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS
Approximately  7.5%  and  19.7%  of  the  Group’s  total 
expenditure  on  purchases  of  goods  and  services  for  the  year 
are attributable to the largest supplier and five largest suppliers 
respectively.

Approximately  1.3%  and  5.9%  of  the  Group’s  total  reported 
revenues  for  the  year  are  attributable  to  the  largest  customer 
and five largest customers respectively.

The  Group  has  entered  into  slot  sharing  arrangements 
with  other  container  shipping  companies.  The  receipts  and 
payments  from  slot  sharing  arrangements  have  not  been 
included  in  determining  the  major  customers  and  suppliers 
since  it  would  be  misleading  to  do  so  as  the  receipts  and 
payments  are  in  respect  of  sharing  arrangements  for  the 
utilisation of vessel space.

No director or any of his associates holds any equity interest in 
the suppliers or customers included above.

MARINE TERMINALS
During  2017,  OOCL  operated  two  container  terminals:  the 
Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  (LBCT)  in  California  and 
the  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in  Taiwan,  with  a  total 
combined  throughput  of  2.7  million  TEU,  representing  a 
year  over  year  increase  of  about  15%.  Tianjin  Port  Alliance 
International  Container  Terminal  Co.,  Ltd.  and  Ningbo 
Yuandong  Terminal  Ltd.,  where  OOCL  has  a  20%  interest  in 
each,  together  handled  about  5  million  TEU,  a  18%  increase 
over 2016.

Middle Harbor Redevelopment Project

OOCL and its subsidiary LBCT continue to work with the Port 
of  Long  Beach  (POLB)  on  the  Middle  Harbor  Redevelopment 
Project (MHRP) in Long Beach, California. The project is to be 
developed  in  three  phases.  After  extensive  equipment  testing, 
systems  development  and  professional  training  through  2015 
and early part of 2016, Phase I went live on 7th April 2016 and 
has been in full operation since.

In  October  of  2017  Phase  II  of  the  project  went  live  with  all 
operations  being  conducted  at  the  new  MHRP  Pier  E  facility. 
The old berth and yard at Pier F is now closed. This is another 
major milestone for the Group as LBCT will become one of the 
most operationally efficient and environmentally friendly port 
terminals anywhere in the world.

Our  expanded  new  terminal  at  Long  Beach  will,  over  time, 
drive  more  and  more  benefit  for  the  Group.  This  will  be 
achieved  not  only  by  cost-efficient  handling  of  calls  by  our 
own vessels and those of our alliance partners, but by opening 
up  the  possibility  of  third  party  business  and  therefore 
additional revenue streams.

Long Beach Container Terminal, LLC. (LBCT LLC)

Location:

Long Beach, California, USA

Status of Terminal:

Currently  at  198  acres,  to  be  expanded  into  a  304-acre, 
three-berth  container  facility  operated  under  a  long-term 
preferential use agreement from the Port of Long Beach.

Equipment/Facilities:

On  Pier  E:  currently  two  container-vessel  berths;  ten  ship-to-
shore  gantry  cranes,  51  automated  stacking  cranes,  four  rail 
yard  cranes,  134  bombcarts,  one  reach  stacker,  one  combi-
lift  straddle  carrier,  61  yard  tractors,  four  heavy  lifts,  one  fuel 
truck,  56  pickup  trucks,  one  tour  bus,  two  shuttle  buses  and 
two tophandlers.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

16

Operations Review

Building Facilities:

13,000 sq ft main office building; 3,200 sq ft marine operations 
building; 9,600 sq ft repair shop.

Principal Customers:

CMA CGM, COSCO, Evergreen and OOCL.

Kaohsiung Container Terminal (KAOCT)

Location:

Pier 65 and 66 Kaohsiung Harbour, Kaohsiung, Taiwan

Status of Terminal:

As  one  of  the  original  container  facilities  in  the  Kaohsiung 
Harbour,  the  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  has  deep-
water  berths  of  14.5  meters  and  the  entire  facility  has  been 
modernised since 2002 and then upgraded again in 2012 with 
the  ability  to  handle  two  10,000-TEU  vessels  or  one  13,000-
TEU and one 8,000-TEU vessels simultaneously.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

1717

Operations Review

SHIP OPERATIONS
As  at  31st  December  2017,  OOCL  fleet  composition  was  as 
follows:

Fleet

Owned/ 

Long Term Chartered/
Operating Lease
Short Term Chartered

Operating Capacity

No. of Vessels

TEU Capacity

67
35

102

563,622
134,779

698,401

Equipment/Facilities:

Two  container-vessel  berths  (760  meters  long)  on  a  total  of 
approximately 63.6 acres operating on a 24-hour, 7-day a week 
basis for vessel and gate activities: Seven quay cranes including 
four with 19  rows, two  with  22 rows  and one  with  23  rows of 
twin 20 ft lifting capacity; 20 rail-mounted gantry cranes; five 
empty stackers and various shipside handling equipment.

To  further  enhance  services  and  improve  efficiency,  two 
terminal upgrade projects have been carried out which include 
the  completion  of  an  expansion  of  the  container  storage 
area  ZONE  6  by  1,500  TEU  in  January  2014  and  an  empty 
storage  area  ZONE  7  by  4,000  TEU  in  April  2015.  After  the 
completion of the first project, the rail-mounted gantry cranes 
are now able to handle 1.6 million TEU per annum and carbon 
emission will be further reduced as well.

Building Facilities (approximate area):

2,948 sqm office building, 7,000 sqm container freight station, 
720 sqm maintenance building.

Principal Customers:

ANL, APL, COSCO, EMC, HPL, HYMM, IRISL, MOSK, NYK, 
OOCL, PIL, WHL, YML, ZIM and various feeder operators.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

18

During  the  year,  the  Group  took  delivery  of  five  of  a  total  of 
six “Giga” Class 21,413 TEU vessels ordered from the Samsung 
Heavy Industries shipyard. This series represents an important 
milestone for the Group, being the first in the industry to build 
a containership breaking the 21,000 TEU mark. The first vessel 
was  named OOCL Hong Kong  and  had  been  recorded  by  the 
Guinness  World  Records  as  the  world’s  biggest  containership 
by  carrying  capacity.  The  last  vessel  in  the  series,  named 
OOCL Indonesia, was scheduled for delivery in January 2018.

No orders for new buildings were placed during the year.

As  of  the  end  of  2017,  OOCL  owned  vessels  with  an  average 
age of 7.92 years and an average size of 8,707 TEU.

Bunker Saving

While  bunker  prices  fluctuated  during  the  first  half  of  2017, 
it  began  trending  upwards  in  the  second  half  with  a  sharp 
rise  over  the  last  four  months  of  the  year.  We  continued  to 
intensify our focus and efforts on our bunker and lubricant oil 
savings  program  for  improved  cost  and  operational  efficiency 
levels.  Some  of  the  areas  include  optimal  routing,  continual 
vessel  speed  optimisation  to  efficiently  adjust  for  the  latest 
port berthing schedules, and better power management on our 
vessels by minimising ballast and attaining optimal trim.

The close coordination, dedication and professionalism of our 
people  both  on-shore  and  onboard  are  key  to  the  success  of 
our cost saving achievements.

Environmental Protection

As  a  responsible  global  corporate  citizen,  we  remain  very 
supportive  of  international  efforts  to  measure  and  control 
shipboard  emissions.  In  2017,  we  maintained  an  average 
sulphur  content  of  2.60%  in  our  bunker  consumption 
which  compares  favourably  with  the  International  Maritime 
Organization  (IMO)  prescribed  standard  of  3.5%.  In  addition 
to  the  installation  of  Alternative  Maritime  Power  (AMP) 
systems for shore-based power alternatives, our new buildings 
have  been  equipped  with  Ballast  Water  Treatment  systems  to 
treat  the  water  and  protect  sensitive  maritime  environments. 
When  our  vessels  are  being  serviced  during  drydocking 
periods,  copper-free  SPC  paints  are  used  to  minimise  any 
impact  to  the  environment  as  well  as  to  improve  vessel  fuel 
efficiency.  Some  retrofit  programs  are  also  underway  to  allow 
some  of  our  existing  vessels  to  improve  fuel  efficiency  as  well 
as emissions reduction.

In  addition  to  regulatory  compliance,  we  have  also  been 
active  in  various  environmental  programs  including  the 
Green  Flag  Program  at  the  Port  of  Long  Beach,  Vessel  Speed 
Reduction Program at the Port of Los Angeles, Shenzhen Port 
Green  Convention  initiated  by  the  Shenzhen  Transportation 
Commission  (SZMOT),  as  well  as  the  AMP  shore-power 
system at various ports in USWC and China.

Operations Review

LOGISTICS
In  2017,  OOCL  Logistics’  revenue,  gross  profit  and  net  profit 
after tax increased by 7.8%, 7.6% and 5.6% respectively.

For  our  International  Supply  Chain  Management  services,  we 
were pleased with our performance in securing new contracts 
during  the  year  as  overall  revenue  continued  to  grow.  We 
spent much effort on helping our clients enhance their supply 
chain visibility and efficiency, optimise operation network, and 
reduce  supply  chain  cost  through  the  use  of  our  innovative 
solutions  and  systems  such  as  the  powerful  features  from 
our  Podium  platform  and  the  Intelligent  Report  System.  Our 
dedication  to  quality  and  providing  best-in-class  services  and 
reliable products further strengthened the quality mark in our 
brand and thus the customer’s confidence in OOCL Logistics.

The  sea-freight  NVOCC  (Non-Vessel  Operating  Common 
Carrier) business, such as FCL (Full Container Load) and LCL 
(Less  Than  Container  Load),  faced  tremendous  challenges, 
particularly  from  the  effects  of  the  high  volatility  of  capacity, 
equipment,  and  ocean  freight  rates  in  the  liner  industry 
during  the  first  half  of  2017.  However,  we  have  seen  marked 
improvements  in  the  performance  of  our  Freight  Forwarding 
and  Owned  Customs  House  Brokers  operations  in  Shanghai 
and  Ningbo,  as  well  as  our  various  depot  operations  in  China 
and  Vietnam.  The  air-freight  forwarding  business  further 
soared  in  2017  while  the  railway  services  between  China  and 
Russia, Germany and other European countries also continued 
to grow.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

1919

Mitigating  cyber  security  risks  continues  to  be  our  strategic 
focus. To protect the Group from financial loss and significant 
reputational damage due to the sophisticated and ever evolving 
cyberattacks,  we  have  taken  a  three-tiered  approach  to 
protecting  ourselves  from  cybercrimes  and  this  includes:  user 
awareness,  technology  deployment,  and  incident  response.  As 
we  continue  to  provide  ongoing  security  awareness  training 
to  educate  our  people  about  cybercrimes,  we  invested  in 
several  state-of-the-art  protection  tools  and  big  data  security 
analytics  to  enhance  our  defensive  capabilities.  This  also 
includes  managing  our  security  services  to  better  detect  and 
remediate any threats in order to ensure the integrity of our IT 
infrastructure and systems. By leveraging cyber security threat 
analytics  and  early  warning  detection,  we  have  developed 
comprehensive  security  incident  handling  procedures  to  cope 
with various types of security incidents, allowing us to respond 
to  security  incidents  more  effectively.  We  further  invested  in 
Micro-segmentation to help ensure for a speedy recovery in a 
post-cyberattack situation.

Our  Decision  Support  development  has  been  very  positive 
following  the  success  of  our  traffic  disruption  control  efforts 
in  2016.  We  extended  our  development  efforts  to  network 
space  optimisation  for  both  laden  and  empty  containers  and 
we  achieved  great  success  in  the  pilot  regions.  The  promising 
results  supported  our  efforts  for  further  developments  in  this 
area as well as global implementation in 2018. Leveraging our 
Internet  of  Things  experience  in  the  ocean  transportation 
sector, we also applied the analytics to the intermodal and rail 
sector which helped to complete our end-to-end capability for 
disruption handling as well as minimising costs and providing 
better customer services.

Operations Review

For  the  Domestic  Logistics  business,  the  effective  utilisation 
of  our  long-term  leased  warehouses  throughout  China  and 
Indonesia  has  seen  significant  improvements  which  helped 
enhance  the  profitability  of  our  Warehouse  and  Distribution 
segment.  Our  cold  chain  logistics  activity  in  China  also  grew, 
particularly  in  the  cold  chain  transportation  and  warehouse 
business that helped push up our profit margin.

By leveraging on our superior IT capabilities and management 
expertise,  our  Software-as-a-Service  has  made  very  good 
progress by providing our clients with Weika, TMS, WMS and 
Control  Tower  which  have  been  integrated  into  our  clients’ 
supply chain operations and management.

In  addition  to  our  various  business  development  projects,  we 
also  focused  on  improvements  to  our  overall  operations  by 
tackling  challenges  in  areas  such  as  operational  productivity, 
cost control, asset efficiency, and raising our quality services to 
new levels in order to enhance our competitive position in the 
industry.

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
In  2017,  the  trend  and  momentum  of  digitisation  in 
the  industry  gained  significant  attention  where  we  saw 
collaborative efforts being established across sectors to explore 
new  opportunities  to  improve  the  global  supply  chain  by 
adopting  new  information  technologies.  Over  the  last  few 
years,  we  have  established  a  strong  digital  agility  foundation 
as  we  embark  on  our  digitalisation  journey  by  working  with 
Pivotal  Labs  in  transforming  the  way  we  build  our  software 
which  include  leveraging  their  Cloud  Foundry  offerings  as 
well  as  integrating  with  Microsoft  Azure  and  Oracle  Cloud 
Computing  technologies  to  enable  elasticity  beyond  our  two 
production  data  centers  in  Hong  Kong  thereby  simplifying 
the  work  of  our  application  team.  We  have  also  brought  in 
Continuous  Integration  and  Continuous  Delivery  (CI/CD) 
and  Test-driven  development  (TDD)  tools  and  processes. 
Today, we have all the basic capabilities to further build on our 
cloud-native applications – one that leverages the as-a-Service 
advantage  and  is  highly  portable  among  cloud  operators  and 
our data centers.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

20

Operations Review

PROPERTY
Based on an independent valuation as at 31st December 2017, 
Wall  Street  Plaza  was  valued  upwards  by  US$50  million, 
reflecting  an  assessed  market  value  of  US$270  million.  After 
offsetting a total of US$6.6 million capital expenditures on the 
building in 2017, the net fair value gain for 2017 has come to 
US$43.4 million.

As  at  31st  December  2016,  Wall  Street  Plaza  was  valued  at 
US$220 million with a net fair value gain of US$18.5 million in 
2016.

CargoSmart

In  order  to  streamline  the  Ocean  Alliance’s  (OA)  vessel 
schedules  and  operation,  the  OA  Operations  Coordination 
Center  (OCC)  leveraged  on  CargoSmart’s  solution  to  better 
manage  the  schedules  update  operation  among  the  four 
members.  The  solution  allows  member  carriers  to  exchange 
schedules  in  real-time  through  CargoSmart’s  GVVMC  where 
the  OCC  operation  team  will  receive  alerts  in  real-time  on 
schedule  disruptions  such  as  ad-hoc  ETA  or  port  changes, 
or  Proforma  discrepancies  covering  over  430  vessels  in  more 
than  40  OA  services.  The  CargoSmart  solution  went  live  in 
September 2017, shortly after 5 months when the OA launched 
it services in April.

CargoSmart  built  upon  the  success  of  the  OCC  solution 
and  helped  one  of  the  OA  members,  namely  Evergreen  Line 
(EMC),  to  further  modernise  their  schedule  operations, 
including  those  from  their  slot  and  chartered  partners. 
OmniOcean  extends  on  its  original  solution  with  additional 
capabilities  in  providing  alerts  to  the  EMC  operation  team, 
such  as  speed/route  exception  which  is  one  among  the  15 
vessel  voyage  exception  alerts  being  offered.  OmniOcean 
allows EMC to better collaborate with all their partners on the 
schedule operations of over 770 vessels.

Through  July  2017,  our  IRIS-4  Liner  enterprise  solution  has 
been  enhanced  to  cater  to  COSCO  SHIPPING’s  requirements 
where  we  tested  the  system  to  handle  the  projected  business 
volumes  from  the  liner.  This  service  is  being  offered  on  a 
subscription basis.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

2121

Corporate Responsibility

Corporate Responsibility

“The Group prides itself 

upon being a responsible 
corporate citizen and 
it employs the highest 
standards of business 
ethics in all that it does.”

 
Corporate Responsibility

The  Group  prides  itself  upon  being  a  responsible  corporate 
citizen and it employs the highest standards of business ethics 
in  all  that  it  does.  Headed  by  a  senior  management  Steering 
Committee  and  a  Global  Security,  Safety  and  Environment 
Care Officer, the Group embraces the core values of Corporate 
Social Responsibility at all levels.

The  Group  places  the  utmost  importance  on  environmental 
care  and  community  support.  Despite  the  current  difficult 
economic  environment,  we  must  continue  to  address  the 
long-term  threat  of  climate  change.  We  strive  to  play  our  part 
in  tackling  this  global  problem  through  engagement  with 
organisations  such  as  the  Business  Environment  Council, 
the  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  and  the  World  Wildlife 
Fund.  Throughout  the  year,  the  Group  has  won  awards  and 
accolades for its environmental performance, and OOIL Group 
employees  around  the  world  have  been  actively  supporting 
their  local  communities  through  various  environmental 
initiatives.

The  Group  is  dedicated  to  promoting  sustainable  practices 
into our supply chain. Our Corporate Sustainable Procurement 
Policy  has  been  implemented  in  every  aspect  of  our  business 
and at every stage of the supply chain. For example, under our 
vendor and supplier selection mechanism, a self assessment of 
the  potential  contractor  must  be  completed  to  confirm  their 
compliance  to  our  Safety,  Security,  Environmental  and  Social 
Guidelines, where on-site verification of their facilities may be 
conducted if deemed necessary. Once compliance is confirmed 
we  would  review  and  work  with  our  vendors  to  ensure 
compliance levels are maintained.

In  addition,  the  OOCL  Carbon  Calculator  is  designed  to 
assist  OOCL  customers  measure  CO2  emissions  in  their 
supply  chains.  The  scope  of  the  calculator  spans  across 
vessels,  trucks,  feeders,  and  rail  with  over  70,000  port  pairs 
recorded.  OOCL  spearheaded  the  project  in  2010,  partnering 
with  the  Department  of  Logistics  and  Maritime  Studies  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Polytechnic  University.  The  Calculator  has  been 
checked and verified for its methodology, accuracy and carbon 
footprint  calculations  by  The  American  Bureau  of  Shipping 
(ABS) Consulting.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2017

2323

Corporate Responsibility

OUR ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES

The  Group  recognises  that  businesses  must  take  responsibility 
for  their  industry’s  effects  on  the  environment.  Our  company 
is  dedicated  to  meeting  the  needs  of  the  present  without 
compromising  those  of  the  future.  We  encourage  sustainable 
economic  development  through  innovative  environmental 
care  measures  and  believe  that  by  taking  a  proactive  role  in 
caring  for  the  environment,  we  can  help  minimise  our  carbon 
footprint, improve air quality and make the world a better place 
to live for ourselves and future generations.

“Class  of  Excellence”  Wastewi$e  Label  –  OOCL  also 
received  environmental  recognition  for  our  participation 
and  performance  in  the  Wastewi$e  Label  Scheme  under  the 
Hong  Kong  Awards  for  Environmental  Excellence  (HKAEE) 
program. Under the Scheme, participants must achieve at least 
nine  goals  or  more,  covering  at  least  two  of  three  Wastewi$e 
categories in order to be granted with the “Class of Excellence” 
Wastewi$e  Label.  The  three  categories  include  Waste 
Avoidance & Reduction Measures, Collection and Recycling of 
Recyclable Materials, and Purchase or Manufacture of Recycled 
Products.

We  actively  participate  in  green  programs  and  have  received 
recognition for our achievements and best practices, including:

The  Safety,  Quality  and  Environmental  (SQE)  Management 
System  Certificate  –  OOCL  was  the  first  container  shipping 
line  in  the  world  to  have  achieved  the  SQE  certification 
which  consolidates  the  ISM-Code,  ISO  9001  and  ISO  14001 
requirements.

Vessel  Speed  Reduction  Programs  –  Each  year,  OOCL  has 
been  fully  compliant  to  reducing  vessel  speed  when  entering 
within both 20 and 40 nautical miles of the Port of Long Beach 
and  Port  of  Los  Angeles  harbors.  Our  efforts  have  effectively 
contributed to improving the air quality by reducing emissions 
such  as  smog  forming  nitrogen  oxides  NOx,  diesel  particulate 
matter  and  greenhouse  gases.  Port  officials  estimate  that  if  all 
vessels comply with the program, the amount of NOx produced 
by container ships would be reduced by nearly 550 tons a year.

Ballast  Water  Management  Program  –  All  container  ships 
discharge  ballast  water,  which  can  contain  organisms  that 
may  be  harmful  to  other  environments.  We  have  a  policy  of 
exchanging  ballast  water  only  in  the  open  sea  (200  nautical 
miles  away  from  the  nearest  coastline)  to  achieve  zero  ballast 
water  exchange  when  berthed  at  the  port.  Although  it  is  not 
mandated  by  the  International  Maritime  Organization  (IMO), 
OOCL’s  new  buildings  are  already  equipped  with  an  IMO 
approved  Ballast  Water  Treatment  System  to  effectively  treat 
ballast water before discharging.

Hong  Kong  Green  Organisation  Certification  (HKGOC)  – 
The  HKGOC  aims  to  benchmark  the  performance  of  “green” 
organisations  to  encourage  them  to  sustain  their  various 
environmental  best  practices.  It  also  presents  organisations 
with  the  opportunity  to  demonstrate  their  commitment  to 
improve different aspects of their environmental performance. 
In  appreciation  of  our  efforts  towards  environmental 
protection,  OOCL  was  given  the  status  of  “Hong  Kong  Green 
Organisation”  (HKGO)  by  the  Environmental  Campaign 
Committee  (ECC)  from  being  a  Gold  Winner  in  the  Hong 
Kong Awards for Environmental Excellence (HKAEE).

OOIL  becomes  a  FTSE4Good  Developed  Index  Constituent 
– The FTSE4Good Developed Index is one of the world’s most 
recognised  and  respected  indices  measuring  the  performance 
of  companies  demonstrating  strong  Environmental,  Social 
and  Governance  (ESG)  standards  for  investors  committed 
to  socially  responsible  investments.  OOIL  is  honoured  to  be 
the  first  Hong  Kong-based  enterprise  in  the  international 
transportation  and  logistics  industry  to  be  included  in  the 
Index.  Independently  assessed  according  to  the  Index  criteria, 
OOIL has met all ESG requirements to become a constituent of 
the Index for the third consecutive year since December 2015, 
an  important  milestone  in  the  company’s  efforts  to  achieving 
long-term sustainability objectives.

Hang  Seng  Corporate  Sustainability  Index  –  The  Group  is  a 
founding constituent of the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability 
Index,  launched  in  2010  to  recognise  the  top  30  companies 
with  the  highest  scores  in  areas  such  as  environmental  care, 
social  impact,  and  corporate  governance  (ESG).  We  have 
been  selected  as  a  constituent  of  the  Hang  Seng  Corporate 
Sustainability  Benchmark  Index  for  the  seventh  consecutive 
year, reflecting our continual outstanding performance in ESG. 
We  received  the  highest  sustainability  score  in  the  industrials 
sector from the latest sustainability performance review. These 
are  remarkable  achievements  as  well  as  recognition  of  our 
efforts  to  achieving  consistent  and  long-term  sustainability 
objectives.

Stop  Shipping  Shark,  Whale,  Dolphin,  and  Their  Related 
Products  –  On  15th  February  2016,  OOCL  announced  that 
bookings for whale, shark, dolphin, and their related products 
will  not  be  accepted.  This  new  policy  shows  our  commitment 
and  best  practices  in  supporting  the  global  effort  to  curb  the 
trade of at-risk, endangered and protected marine species.

Qualship 21 – Offered by the US Coast Guard, the Qualship 21 
program recognises high-quality ships for their excellent safety 
and antipollution standards and encourages quality operations. 
Most  of  OOCL’s  vessels  calling  the  US  have  already  been 
Qualship 21 certified since 2004.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2017

24

Corporate Responsibility

Environmental  Data  Verification  –  OOCL  completed  its 
environmental  reporting  and  disclosure  assurance  by  using 
both  the  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  (CCWG)  and  ISO 
14064-1  standards  to  certify  the  transparency,  accuracy, 
completeness,  consistency  and  relevance  of  OOCL’s  data 
disclosure  on  vessel  emissions.  OOCL  was  accredited  by  the 
Lloyd’s  Register  Quality  Assurance  (LRQA),  an  independent 
business  assurance  service  provider  based  in  the  United 
Kingdom,  after  checking  not  only  the  carbon  dioxide,  sulphur 
oxides  and  Greenhouse  Gas  (GHG)  (Scope  1)  emission 
levels  of  OOCL  vessels,  but  also  the  GHG  (Scope  2)  records 
associated  to  the  electricity  consumption  of  OOCL’s  head 
office in Hong Kong. OOCL took further steps forward in our 
GHG reporting and verification by extending the scope to our 
container  terminals,  namely  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal, 
LLC.  (LBCT  LLC)  in  the  United  States  and  Kaohsiung 
Container  Terminal  (KAOCT)  in  Taiwan.  The  Group  is 
committed  to  reducing  emissions,  promoting  environmental 
care  and  conserving  natural  resources.  We  do  this  in  all 
areas  of  our  business  –  on  land  and  at  sea  –  from  our  vessels, 
to  our  terminals,  offices  and  containers.  In  order  to  reach 
higher  standards  and  transparency  in  Greenhouse  Gas  (GHG) 
reporting,  OOCL  not  only  met  the  verification  requirements 
of GHG Scopes 1 and 2, but also took a further step forward to 
meet a GHG Scope 3 requirement in 2017, focusing on indirect 
emissions associated to business travel by air for employees of 
our Hong Kong office.

Hong  Kong  Sustainability  Award  –  OOCL  was  awarded 
with  the  “Certificate  of  Excellence”  and  “Special  Recognition 
for  Creative  Sustainability  Idea”  at  the  inaugural  Hong  Kong 
Sustainability  Award  2016/17  organised  by  the  Hong  Kong 
Management  Association  (HKMA)  on  16th  November  2017. 
These  awards  recognise  our  commitment  to  operational 
sustainability and innovation in creative initiatives.

may  encourage  others  to  adopt  a  more  proactive  approach 
towards  managing  the  environment.  OOCL  received  top 
honors  at  the  Singapore  Environmental  Achievement  Awards 
(SEAA)  ceremony  held  at  the  Singapore  Environment 
Council’s  (SEC)  Conference  Day  event  on  13th  October  2017. 
Presented  with  the  “Outstanding  Singapore  Environmental 
Achievement  Award”,  this  overarching  award  recognises  one 
top performer amongst all the SEAA categories demonstrating 
commitment  to  environmental  excellence  and  protection 
of  the  natural  environment.  OOCL  was  also  a  winner  in 
the  SEAA  Maritime  sector  category,  which  recognises 
maritime  companies  that  have  in  place  strong  environmental 
management  policies  with  a  focus  on  industry  leading 
initiatives  and  continuous  innovation  in  their  sustainability 
work.

United  Nations  Global  Compact  (UNGC)  –  OOIL  was 
the  first  Hong  Kong-based  enterprise  in  the  international 
transportation and logistics industry to take part in the United 
Nations  Global  Compact.  Through  our  business  strategies, 
operation, corporate culture, and continual engagement in the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDG)  set  out  by  the  United 
Nations,  we  are  committed  to  supporting  the  Ten  Principles 
of  the  UNGC  that  sets  out  fundamental  responsibilities  in 
areas  such  as  human  rights,  labour,  environment  and  anti-
corruption.  To  demonstrate  our  long-term  commitment  in 
corporate  sustainability,  transparency,  and  accountability, 
we  aim  to  publish  a  Communication  on  Progress  (COP) 
report  on  an  annual  basis  to  describe  our  extensive  efforts 
in  implementing  the  Ten  Principles  and  SDG.  Prior  to  our 
participation  in  the  UNGC,  we  have  already  been  very  active 
in  building  up  our  work  on  SDGs.  In  our  2016  Sustainability 
Report,  we  introduced  new  targets  and  specific  action 
items  towards  the  formulation  of  relevant  SDGs  to  tackle 
environmental and social issues across industries.

Singapore  Environmental  Achievement  Awards  (SEAA) 
–  SEAA  was  launched  to  honor  outstanding  organisations 
and  companies  for  their  overall  environmental  stewardship, 
management and performance. It also recognises the leadership 
and  innovation  from  their  sustainability  work  and  how  they 

Enhancing  Cetacean  Habitat  and  Observation  (ECHO) 
Program  –  OOCL  participated  in  the  Enhancing  Cetacean 
Habitat  and  Observation  (ECHO)  Program  between  7th 
August  and  6th  October  2017  to  study  how  the  industry 
can  reduce  our  vessel  noise  impact  to  the  whales  along  the 

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2017

2525

We have implemented a “reduce, re-use and recycle” campaign 
in  all  our  offices  around  the  world,  encouraging  employees 
to  switch  off  computers  after  work,  powering  off  copiers  and 
lights  after  use,  and  to  install  energy  saving  office  equipment, 
such  as  energy  efficient  light  bulbs.  We  also  have  mandatory 
training  for  all  staff  in  safety,  security  and  environmental 
issues,  and  organise  OOCL  Green  Week  every  July  in  offices 
around the world.

Our  Terminals  –  Following  our  tradition  of  best  practices, 
our  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  (LBCT  LLC)  again 
continued  to  exceed  all  environmental  requirements  by  the 
US  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA),  the  State  of 
California’s Air Resources Board (CARB), and the Port of Long 
Beach’s (POLB) Green Port Policy in 2017.

LBCT  took  another  giant  leap  forward  in  environmental 
stewardship  when  the  second  phase  of  our  MHRP  project 
went live in October of 2017, expanding what is demonstrably 
one  of  the  greenest  container  terminals  in  the  world.  With 
four  additional  all-electric  cranes  and  an  expanded  fleet  of  56 
Automated  Guided  Vehicles  (AGVs)  powered  by  clean  energy 
sources,  all  containers  moved  by  LBCT  are  now  handled  by 
Zero  Emission  equipment.  “Clean  Trucks”  or  energy  efficient 
locomotives  are  then  used  to  pick  them  up  for  transport 
throughout the country.

In  2017  the  first  phase  of  LBCT’s  On-Dock  Rail  Yard  was 
expanded  with  an  additional  Intermodal  yard  Crane  and 
extended  rail  working  track,  allowing  an  even  larger  number 
of containers to be moved to and from the terminal via double 
stack  trains,  thus  reducing  the  use  of  the  Clean  Truck  fleet  by 
hundreds of trips per day.

To  further  enhance  our  use  of  clean  power,  LBCT’s  Solar 
Carports  provided  1,322,590  kWh  (Kilowatt  Hours)  of 
electricity  in  2017,  reducing  our  dependence  on  traditionally 
generated grid power.

Corporate Responsibility

southern  coast  of  British  Columbia,  Canada.  Stipends  were 
given  to  the  Program  participants  for  reducing  speed  through 
the designated areas. To show our continual support in marine 
conservation  and  protection,  OOCL  was  the  first  carrier  to 
return  the  stipend  from  the  ECHO  Program  to  the  Port  of 
Vancouver as our contribution to further whale research in the 
region. OOCL’s commitment and contribution to this Program 
was an important part of our sustainability work in addressing 
the  “SDG  14:  Life  Below  Water”  component  of  marine  life 
protection and conservation.

Our  Vessels  –  The  best  way  to  reduce  harmful  emissions  in 
the shipping industry is to reduce the consumption of fuel. For 
well  over  a  decade  OOCL  implemented  a  fuel  saving  program 
including weather routing systems, slow steaming (addition of 
extra  vessels  on  service  loops  and  travelling  at  slower  speeds), 
minimising  ballast  water  to  help  achieve  a  lighter  vessel  load, 
and  achieving  better  trim  of  ship  draughts  by  good  stowage, 
thereby  burning  less  fuel.  By  taking  these  measures,  we  have 
reduced  our  CO2  emissions  by  more  than  45%  since  2004.  In 
addition  to  reducing  our  emissions,  we  are  able  to  help  our 
customers  achieve  a  lower  carbon  footprint  in  their  supply 
chains.

Since  2000,  all  our  vessels  have  been  installed  with 
environment-friendly  NOx-controlled  propulsive  engines 
while  advanced  slide  fuel  injection  valves  are  adopted  to  help 
reduce  NOx  emissions  by  30%.  All  our  new  buildings  since 
2011  are  also  equipped  with  Alternative  Maritime  Power 
(AMP)  Systems,  also  known  as  “Cold  Ironing”,  which  allows 
the  vessel  to  use  shore  supplied  electricity  instead  of  burning 
fuel when at berth. OOCL is fully compliant to the EU, North 
America  and  IMO  mandated  requirements  of  using  0.1%  or 
lower  sulphur  content  fuel  in  all  SOx  Emission  Control  Areas 
(SECA).  We  are  also  compliant  to  the  requirements  of  using 
0.1%  sulphur  content  fuel  when  our  vessels  are  berthed  at 
designated  EU  ports.  Moreover,  OOCL  is  one  of  the  leading 
carriers that signed on to the newly introduced Shenzhen Port 
Green  Convention  initiated  by  the  Shenzhen  Transportation 
Commission (SZMOT) that encourages ocean going vessels to 
voluntarily  use  fuel  with  a  sulphur  content  of  less  than  0.5% 
when  berthed  at  the  participating  ports  in  Shenzhen.  We  also 
ensure  that  the  sulphur  content  of  our  fuel  is  well  below  the 
IMO  prescribed  standard  of  3.5%  when  our  vessels  sail  in  the 
high seas. In 2017, OOCL achieved an average sulphur content 
of 2.60%.

Our Offices – Our focus is to create and maintain a “paperless 
office”  environment  by  eliminating  the  use  of  faxes  and 
unnecessary  paper  documents.  As  a  business  which  has 
traditionally  relied  on  paper  documentation  with  customers, 
such  as  bills  of  lading  and  invoices,  we  have  successfully 
taken  innovative  measures  to  effectively  reduce  our  paper 
consumption since 2006.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2017

26

Corporate Responsibility

LBCT’s  achievements  were  once  again  recognised  by  the 
U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA)  where  LBCT 
was  selected  to  be  the  recipient  of  over  US$2.8  million  in 
funding  to  expand  our  fleet  of  Zero  Emission  AGVs,  allowing 
us  to  move  more  cargo  through  the  LBCT’s  newly  expanded 
terminal in the most environmental friendly way possible. Such 
recognition of our efforts by one of the strictest environmental 
regulatory  agencies  in  the  world  helps  highlight  not  just 
the  success  of  our  green  initiatives,  but  also  celebrate  the 
real  impact  we  have  on  improving  the  environment  in  the 
community.

Concurrent  with  the  Phase  II  GO-Live’s  expansion  of  our 
Zero Emissions Cargo Handling equipment, LBCT was able to 
permanently retire the following equipment from service:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

12 Diesel Powered Rubber Tired Gantry (RTG) Cranes

7 Diesel Powered Fork Lifts

5 Diesel Powered Side Picks (Empty Container Handlers)

9 Diesel Powered Top Picks (Loaded Container Handlers)

21 Diesel Powered Yard tractors

1 Diesel Powered Shuttle Bus

At  LBCT,  from  the  executive  level  to  the  newest  front-line 
manager,  many  of  our  staff  actively  engage  in  a  wide  variety 
of  outdoor  activities.  Our  dedication  to  the  company,  coupled 
with  our  love  of  the  outdoors,  means  that  when  it  comes  to 
sustainability, We Take It Personally.

In  2005,  our  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  (KAOCT)  in 
Taiwan  had  converted  its  entire  container  yard  to  a  “green” 
enterprise  by  replacing  its  straddle  carriers  operation  with 
electric rail mounted gantry cranes (RMGs) to improve energy 
and  operational  efficiencies.  As  a  result  of  the  improvements 
made  over  the  years,  electricity  consumption  throughput 
decreased by 15.6%, from 17.3 kWh/TEU in 2005 to 14.6 kWh/
TEU in 2017.

Currently,  there  are  a  total  of  20  electrically  powered  RMGs 
in  the  terminal  on  a  fixed-rail  system  and  these  gantry  cranes 
are  emission-free,  quiet,  and  provide  a  much  safer  working 
environment  at  the  port.  The  equipment  has  not  only  helped 
improve  energy  efficiency  but  also  terminal  efficiency  as 
shipside productivity improved by 3.7% from 2005 to 2017 and 
during this same period, the annual throughput also increased 
by  60.4%.  This  has  enabled  KAOCT  to  effectively  handle 
more  vessels  at  berth  and  the  higher  productivity  level  helped 
shorten the vessel berthing period to achieve bunker saving as 
well as emission reduction.

KAOCT  is  committed  to  promoting  safety  and  health  policies 
in  order  to  continuously  improve  our  working  environment. 
As  such,  KAOCT  launched  the  OHSAS  18001  and  Taiwan 
Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Management  System 
(TOSHMS)  application  in  the  beginning  of  2017  to  promote 
a  safe  and  healthy  working  environment.  We  successfully 
received the certifications in November 2017.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2017

2727

Corporate Responsibility

Our  Containers  –  Today,  OOCL  only  uses  CFC-free 
refrigerants  for  all  our  refrigerated  (reefer)  containers. 
OOCL’s newest reefer containers have one of the lowest power 
consumption  in  the  industry,  and  we  install  ThermoKing 
“EcoPower”  gensets  for  better  energy  efficiency.  All  our 
containers  have  been  applied  with  tin-free  paint  and 
introduced the use of eco-friendly bamboo floorboards instead 
of using traditional hardwood ones. 

The Group’s sustainability and environmentally conscious best 
practices often exceeds legal requirements and general industry 
standards  in  the  countries  where  it  operates.  As  a  responsible 
and  committed  member  of  the  international  community,  the 
Group  will  continually  strive  for  further  improvements  in  all 
aspects of its business.

SECURITY
In  a  world  where  global  cargo  security  threats  always  increase 
the  complexities  of  the  international  trade  community,  OOCL 
is strongly committed to the security of our operations against 
possible  compromise  and  to  the  maintenance  of  the  highest 
level  of  compliance  in  security  related  areas.  From  our  offices 
to  ports,  warehouses,  shore  facilities  and  onboard  our  vessels, 
we  work  with  the  responsible  authorities  to  ensure  that  every 
measure  is  in  place  to  maintain  the  highest  commercial  and 
operational  security  standards  possible  at  all  times,  while  all 
employees are educated and regularly updated through security 
training.

The Group’s Corporate Security Policy and internal guidelines 
comply  with  the  US  Customs-Trade  Partnership  Against 
Terrorism  (C-TPAT)  initiative,  EU  Authorised  Economic 
Operator  (AEO)  Program,  and  we  actively  work  with  various 
governments  and  authorities  around  the  world  to  counter 
any  act  that  would  impinge  upon  maritime  or  cargo  security. 
Under  our  policy,  we  have  internal  security  checks  to  all  of 
its holdings and  our security  profile  has  been validated  by the 
US  Customs  and  Border  Protection  agency  through  physical 
checks  of  the  offices  and  facilities  of  the  Group  including 
terminals, warehouses, depots and vessels.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2017

28

Our  company  meets  the  International  Ship  and  Port  Facility 
Security Code (ISPS Code), which ensures that security threats 
are  detected  and  assessed  while  preventive  measures  are  in 
place  on  our  vessels  and  at  our  port  facilities.  A  designated 
officer  on  each  ship  and  at  each  port  facility  reports  to  the 
Company  Security  Officer  who  oversees  the  security  plans, 
drills  and  training.  With  this  in  place,  all  our  vessels  continue 
to  have  an  exemplary  record  containing  zero  breaches  of 
security  and  clean  detention  records.  In  addition,  to  provide 
world-class  quality  and  secure  information  to  customers 
and  partners,  our  Global  Data  Centre  has  also  achieved  and 
maintained ISO 27001 certification.

OOCL  has  been  certified  as  a  “Partners  in  Protection”  (PIP) 
carrier by the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) Partners 
in  Protection.  It  is  a  voluntary  program  established  by  the 
CBSA  to  enhance  border  security,  combat  organised  crime 
and  terrorism,  detect  and  prevent  contraband  smuggling,  and 
increase  awareness  of  issues  to  secure  the  flow  of  legitimate 
goods  and  travelers  across  the  US-Canadian  border.  OOCL 
applies anti-piracy measures before our vessels transit through 
High  Risk  Areas  (HRA).  One  of  the  key  measures  is  to 
maintain  a  24-hour,  360-degree  anti-piracy  visual  and  radar 
watch and to deploy additional watch-keepers at the bridge and 
on  deck  while  transiting  the  HRA  to  watch  out  for  suspected 
pirate  vessels.  Physical  measures  are  also  utilised  onboard, 
such as barbed wires, spikes, and night vision binoculars. Close 
communication  is  always  maintained  between  ships  and  our 
Fleet  Management  Department  (FMD)  office.  FMD’s  24-hour 
emergency hotline is always on standby mode in the case of any 
emergency.

Traditionally,  antivirus  and  malware  detection  software 
would  provide  a  boost  to  our  computer  security  by  helping 
our  computers  stay  away  from  being  “infected”.  But  as  the 
development  of  the  Internet  is  becoming  more  sophisticated 
than ever, signature-based virus/malware detection tools alone 
are no longer sufficient today.

This  is  because  the  “Advanced  Persistent  Threat”  (APT),  a  set 
of  stealthy  and  continuous  computer  hacking  processes  often 
orchestrated  by  attackers  targeting  a  specific  entity  by  taking 
advantage  of  security  loopholes,  is  growing.  APT  has  been 
observed  to  target  organisations  and/or  nations  for  business, 
financial  and/or  political  motives.  “Corporate  Security 
Breaches”,  “Email  Spoofing”,  “Spear  Phishing”  and  “Social 
Media Fraud” are some of the common types of cyber attacks. 
To  boost  our  employee’s  knowledge  and  awareness  of  cyber 
security, new initiatives and programs have been developed to 
ensure everyone takes part in protecting our assets and become 
more  resilient  against  such  threats.  This  includes  an  annual 
cyber  security  training  and  mandatory  test  for  all  employees, 
monthly  knowledge  and  trend  updates,  and  sophisticated 
monitoring and protective systems.

Corporate Responsibility

In  keeping  with  the  Group’s  long  tradition  in  supporting 
education,  the  Group,  in  partnership  with  The  Tung 
Foundation,  committed  more  than  US$530,000  in  2017  to 
scholarships through The Tung OOCL Scholarship for students 
and our employees’ children.

In  2017,  45  OOCL  vessels  participated  in  the  Hong  Kong 
Voluntary  Observing  Ship  (HKVOS)  program  by  the  Hong 
Kong  Observatory  (HKO)  to  gather  and  provide  marine 
climatology  data  needed  to  help  identify  prevailing  weather 
conditions  for  preparing  forecasts  and  warnings  to  the 

COMMUNITY AND EDUCATION
As  a  responsible  corporate  citizen,  the  Group  recognises  that 
the  societies  in  which  its  employees  live  and  work  contribute 
greatly  to  the  company’s  overall  success.  Care  for  these 
communities in which it operates is therefore a major corporate 
focus. The Group concentrates its community efforts on charity 
programs  designed  to  provide  well-rounded  youth  education, 
charity  relief  to  the  needy,  and  cultural  entertainment  to  the 
whole community.

OOCL  employees  across  the  world  are  encouraged  to  give 
something back to the communities in which they live through 
charitable  activities  such  as  fundraising  and  volunteering  by 
dedicating their  time and  efforts to  help  others  in need. Some 
of  the  areas  where  the  charity  donations  were  made  by  the 
Group  and  its  employees  include:  education,  social  services, 
orphanages, elderly homes, schools, children’s hospitals, cancer 
research,  multiple  sclerosis,  and  diabetes  research.  In  addition 
to financial donations, the Group also contributes in kind. We 
offer  transportation  and  logistics  support  to  send  relief  to  the 
affected  areas.  Assistance  in  the  form  of  free  transportation 
is  often  given  to  a  number  of  charitable  projects  including 
transporting  medical  diagnostic  equipment  and  supplies  from 
the  US  to  China  to  care  for  those  children  who  need  urgent 
treatments.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2017

2929

Corporate Responsibility

maritime community. To recognise vessels’ outstanding efforts 
in volunteering their time to help improve maritime safety, the 
HKO presented one “Diamond Award”, one “Platinum Award”, 
and  three  “Gold  Awards”  to  OOCL  vessels  on  3rd  July  2017. 
Apart from the quantity of the reports made, five OOCL vessels 
were  also  presented  with  participation  certificates  jointly 
issued by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) and 
Intergovernmental  Oceanographic  Commission  of  UNESCO 
(IOC)  for  the  high  quality  of  the  reports  sent.  According  to 
the  HKO,  observational  data  received  from  these  ships  in  the 
Voluntary  Observing  Ship  Scheme  Climate  Fleet  (VOSClim) 
are  highly  valued  by  the  international  scientific  community 
for  climate  research  and  climate  change  studies.  Additionally, 
OOCL Jakarta  was  also  presented  with  a  certificate  of 
appreciation for her assistance in deploying five drifting buoys 
over the South China Sea to measure atmospheric pressure and 
sea temperature.

KEY RELATIONSHIPS WITH CUSTOMERS 
AND SUPPLIERS
“Customer  focus”  is  one  of  the  core  values  of  the  Group.  We 
believe  in  long-term,  mutually  beneficial  relationships  with 
our customers and strive to help create value for our customers 
through  collaboration  to  enhance  customer  competitiveness. 
This  is  achieved  by  seeing  things  from  the  customer’s 
perspective, trying to understand their business and anticipate 
their requirements. All employees are trained to be proactive in 
meeting  customers’  expectations  and  responding  with  a  sense 
of urgency.

“We  Take  It  Personally”  is  not  just  a  slogan  at  OOCL,  but 
also  an  attitude  that  all  employees  are  encouraged  to  adopt  in 
dealing  with  our  customers.  Each  year  we  recognise  hundreds 
of  employees  around  the  world  for  displaying  initiative  and 
going beyond the call of duty to meet our customers’ needs.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2017

30

It is the Group’s policy to maintain a diversified customer base 
across  all  geographical  regions  and  trade  lanes.  A  Key  Risk 
Indicator  (KRI)  of  customer  concentration  was  developed  in 
the year 2017 and is included in the functional risk dashboard 
for  the  Group’s  liner  business  which  is  being  monitored  on  a 
monthly  basis.  Different  tolerance  limits  for  the  KRI  are  set 
for  different  regions,  trades  and  the  organisation  as  a  whole. 
As at the end of 2017, OOCL had approximately 34,000 active 
customers and the customer concentration was at an acceptable 
level.

In  the  Group’s  relationship  with  suppliers,  we  put  special 
emphasis  on  the  supplier  selection  process  in  which  both 
quantitative  and  qualitative  factors  are  considered  objectively, 
independently  and  openly,  according  to  the  Group’s  highest 
ethical  standards.  Pricing  is  not  the  Group’s  primar y 
consideration;  instead,  the  Group  focuses  its  attention  on 
the  suppliers’  quality  service,  safety  and  ethical  standards. 
“Excellence  through  quality”  is  another  core  value  of  the 
Group. While we endeavour to provide the best quality service 
to  our  customers  by  setting  high  standards  for  ourselves,  we 
demand the same high standards from our suppliers. It is also 
the  Group’s  policy  to  maintain  a  diversified  supplier  base 
across all geographical regions.

In  2017,  the  Group  developed  supplier  management  KRIs 
to  monitor  supplier  concentration  in  different  regions  and 
poor  supplier  services.  Cases  of  supplier  service  failure  were 
shared  among  employees  to  alert  them  to  the  importance  of 
communicating  our  expectations  to  the  suppliers  and  taking 
the  right  remedial  mitigating  actions.  As  at  the  end  of  2017, 
OOCL  had  approximately  23,000  active  suppliers  and  the 
supplier concentration was at an acceptable level.

EMPLOYEE INFORMATION
As  a  responsible  corporate  citizen  employing  the  highest 
standards  of  business  ethics  in  all  that  it  does,  the  Group 
understands  that  the  process  begins  with  the  well  treatment 
of  its  employees.  As  a  successful  corporation,  the  Group 
appreciates  that  its  success,  growth  and  performance  are 
attributable  to  the  skills,  dedication  and  teamwork  of  its 
employees. It regards people as its greatest asset and takes good 
care of them.

In  the  spirit  of  mutual  respect,  the  Group  is  an  equal 
opportunity  employer  with  a  clearly  defined  policy,  covering 
areas  such  as  treating  all  employees  with  fairness  and  dignity, 
promoting  the  corporate  culture  of  encouraging  open  and 
frank  communication  throughout  the  organisation,  investing 
in  its  employees  and  caring  for  their  hopes  and  aspirations 
through  people  development  programs  and  education,  as  well 
as recognising their efforts and achievements.

People  development  remains  a  cornerstone  of  the  corporate 
culture  and  enables  the  effective  operation  of  the  Group’s 
career  development  policy  through  recruitment  and  internal 
promotion.  The  Group  has  channeled  a  great  deal  of  time 
and  effort  into  its  various  people  development  programs  in 
practical  and  experiential  environments  through  job  rotation, 
local  and  overseas  job  assignments,  formal  and  informal 
learning  and  development  opportunities  and  sponsorships  for 
performance enhancement building capacities of employees in 
support  of  their  growth  with  the  Group.  To  further  enhance 
practical training and better HQ/Regional cooperation, efforts 
have been made to initiate more short term cross regional job 
rotations.

The  Group  employs  an  innovative  approach  to  internal 
communications,  employee  learning  and  people  development. 
The  Group  provides  support  to  its  employees  to  help  them 
deliver what customers need and unleash their potential. Since 
2010,  the  Group  has  utilised  its  intranet,  called  “InfoNet”,  as 
a  learner-centric  platform  for  dissemination  of  company  news 
and  business  updates  while  providing  its  employees  with  a 
tool  to  share  knowledge,  exchange  views  and  formulate  ideas. 
In  2011,  the  Group  adopted  a  wide  range  of  enterprise  level 
collaboration  tools.  In  addition  to  conventional  methods  of 
communication such as email, other tools such as OOCL Wiki, 
OOCL Channel, Jabber, and Tibbr, have become very effective 
in  the  global  sharing  of  information  and  knowledge  as  well  as 
facilitate  collaboration  amongst  colleagues  around  the  world. 
They  also  helped  support  accelerated  learning  by  providing 
us  with  the  means  to  leverage  resources,  ideas  and  hence 
solutions.  Since  2016,  we  have  also  implemented  the  use  of 
the  Microsoft  Office  365  cloud-based  information  platform  to 
further our internal communication goals.

Corporate Responsibility

As  at  31st  December  2017,  the  Group  had  10,300  full-time 
employees.  Their  salary  and  benefit  levels  are  maintained  at 
competitive  levels.  Employees  are  rewarded  on  a  performance 
related  basis  within  the  general  policy  and  framework  of 
the  Group’s  salary  and  bonus  schemes  which  are  regularly 
reviewed.  Other  benefits  including  medical  insurance  and 
pension  funds  are  also  provided,  and  social  and  recreational 
activities are organised around the world.

In  the  interest  of  adhering  to  the  highest  ethical  standards  on 
an ongoing basis, the Group has formulated a Code of Conduct 
which serves as a guideline to ensure compliance with all local, 
national and international legal standards. It helps to preclude 
any  offences  under  local,  national  and  international  laws, 
breaches  of  confidentiality  and  non-disclosure  requirements, 
intellectual property rights infringement, as well as conflicts of 
interest,  acts  of  bribery,  corruption  or  political  contribution, 
and  any  other  corporate  misconduct.  The  Group  has  set  up 
procedures  to  identify,  manage  and  control  risks  that  may 
have  an  impact  on  the  business  of  the  Group.  Established 
in  2006,  the  Group’s  “Whistle  Blower  Policy”  is  one  of  the 
Group’s  formalised  procedures  through  which  employees  can 
anonymously  file  reports  or  register  concerns  and  governs 
the  reporting  and  investigation  of  allegations  to  suspected 
improper activities.

The  Group  is  an  equal  opportunity  employer  with  policies 
not  to  discriminate  against  any  employee  or  applicant  for 
employment  on  the  grounds  of  race,  colour,  religion,  creed, 
age,  sex,  disability,  pregnancy,  childbirth  and  related  medical 
condition,  marital  status,  sexual  orientation,  veteran  status 
and  any  other  category  as  guided  by  local  laws  and  legal 
regulations.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited 
Annual Report 2017

3131

Financial Review

Financial Review

“

Revenue for 2017 was US$810.7 million 
better than that of 2016, representing an 
increase of 15%.”

 
Financial Review

Analysis of Consolidated Profit and Loss Account

Summary of Group Results

US$’000

Operating revenue by activity:

Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities

Group operating revenue

Operating profit/(loss) by activity:
Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities

Group operating profit/(loss)
Finance costs
Share of profits of joint ventures and  

associated companies

Net gain in fair value on investment property

Profit/(loss) before taxation
Taxation

Profit/(loss) attributable to shareholders

2017

2016

Change

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

6,078,192
30,158

6,108,350

86,311
102,423

188,734
(101,215)

19,134

106,653
43,436

150,089
(12,433)

137,656

5,270,323
27,370

5,297,693

(202,529)
45,780

(156,749)
(79,393)

17,953

(218,189)
18,522

(199,667)
(19,554)

(219,221)

807,869
2,788

810,657

288,840
56,643

345,483
(21,822)

1,181

324,842
24,914

349,756
7,121

356,877

15%
10%

15%

N/M
124%

N/M
(27%)

7%

N/M
135%

N/M
36%

N/M

Revenue for 2017 was US$810.7 million better than that of 2016, representing an increase of 15%. This was mainly attributable to 

the improved freight rates and moderate growth in liftings for the core Container Transport and Logistics business. Other revenue, 

amounting to less than 1% of the Group’s revenue for both 2017 and 2016, represented rental income from the Group’s investment 

property, Wall Street Plaza, in New York.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

3333

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Container Transport and Logistics

Summary of Operating Results

US$’000

Liftings (TEUs)

Revenue per TEU (US$)

Operating revenue by location:

Asia/Australia
North America
Europe

Operating revenue

Operating costs by items:

Cargo costs
Bunker costs
Vessel and voyage costs (excluding Bunker)
Equipment and repositioning costs

2017

2016

6,298,735

6,080,682

861

773

4,427,255
782,025
868,912

6,078,192

(3,088,556)
(657,853)
(986,428)
(783,046)

3,776,550
761,456
732,317

5,270,323

(2,930,530)
(435,238)
(935,145)
(715,711)

Operating costs

(5,515,883)

(5,016,624)

Gross profit
Business and administrative expenses
Other income, net

Operating profit/(loss)

Operating margin

562,309
(483,328)
7,330

86,311

1%

253,699
(463,878)
7,650

(202,529)

(4%)

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

4%

11%

17%
3%
19%

15%

(5%)
(51%)
(5%)
(9%)

(10%)

122%
(4%)
(4%)

N/M

Change

218,053

88

650,705
20,569
136,595

807,869

(158,026)
(222,615)
(51,283)
(67,335)

(499,259)

308,610
(19,450)
(320)

288,840

The Container Transport and Logistics business trades under the “OOCL” name and represents the principal revenue contributor 
to the Group, accounting for over 99% of the Group’s revenue in 2017. Container Transport and Logistics will continue to be the 
core business of the Group in which the majority of the Group’s operating assets will be deployed.

Operating Revenue of Container Transport and Logistics

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

%
2
7

%
3
7

%
4
1

%
4
1

2016

%
4
1

%
3
1

2017

Asia/Australia

North America

Europe

The  operating  results  for  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  also  include  the  operations  of  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  in 
California  USA  and  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in  Taiwan  as  these  facilities  are  mainly  employed  by  OOCL  and  its  alliance 
members.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

34

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Asia/Australia

Revenue  from  the  Asia/Australia  area  increased  from  US$3,776.6  million  in  2016  to  US$4,427.3  million  in  2017  as  a  result  of  a 
notable  improvement  in  freight  rates  amid  a  modest  lifting  growth.  Nearly  all  trades  recorded  a  rebound  in  performance  with 
Trans-Pacific and Asia/Europe trades registered the largest increase in revenue terms when compared with last year.

The overall liftings of the Trans-Pacific eastbound services increased by 28% while freight rates maintained at similar level of last 
year. The westbound legs of the Asia/Northern Europe services recorded a 20% growth in volume amid a 23% rebound in rates. 
Intra-Asia achieved a rise of 15% in rates for the year, albeit at the expense of an 11% drop in liftings. Liftings of the Asia/Australia 
and New Zealand services grew by 4% in 2017 while freight rates also caught up by 4% compared with last year.

Overall load factor as a percentage of the capacity available during 2017 was 2 percentage points higher than that of 2016, amid 
a  static  growth  in  available  capacity  during  the  year.  Results  from  this  region  have  always  been  dependent  upon  the  economic 
environment and consumption patterns of North America and Europe.

Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in  Taiwan  is  an  integral  part  of  the  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  business  and  its  terminal 
facilities are mainly employed by OOCL and its alliance members.

North America

Revenue  increased  marginally  by  US$20.6  million  for  this  area  in  2017,  thanks  to  the  revenue  growth  in  Long  Beach  Container 
Terminal  pursuant  to  the  progressive  completion  of  the  Middle  Harbor  Redevelopment  Project.  For  the  trades  concerned,  both 
Asia-bound and Europe-bound cargoes recorded a drop in average freight rates during the year.

The westbound liftings of the Asia/North America West Coast service and the Asia/US East Coast service via the Panama Canal 
decreased  by  2%  compared  with  last  year,  resulting  in  a  6%  drop  in  revenue,  with  a  4%  decline  in  freight  rates.  The  eastbound 
Canada/Northern  Europe  and  US  East  Coast/Northern  Europe  services  recorded  a  14%  growth  in  volume  but  a  5%  drop  in 
revenue.

The overall volumes increased by 2% while the average revenue per TEU on all outbound cargoes from North America recorded a 
drop of 7% as compared with last year. Amid a 20% increase in capacity during the year, the overall load factor in the region was 
10 percentage points lower than 2016.

Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  forms  an  integral  part  of  the  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  business  with  its  terminal 
facilities mainly employed by OOCL and its alliance partners.

Europe

Revenue for this area increased by US$136.6 million in 2017. The eastbound leg of the Asia/Northern Europe services recorded 
a  41%  revenue  surge  in  2017  while  the  westbound  trades  of  the  Trans-Atlantic  routes  showed  a  4%  drop.  Remarkable  revenue 
growth was noted in the Mediterranean markets while the Intra-Europe trades also recorded revenue increase.

The  eastbound  leg  of  the  Asia/Northern  Europe  services  saw  a  19%  increase  in  volume  in  2017,  which  was  coupled  with  a  19% 
rebound in freight rates. Liftings for the westbound sectors to North America were 5% higher than those of 2016 while the average 
revenue per TEU for those services was 8% off from last year. The eastbound routes of the Mediterranean trades sustained a 15% 
growth in volume and a 32% increase in revenue during the year.

The overall load factor as a percentage of capacity available for cargo shipments from this region was close to that of 2016 despite 
a 15% capacity increase for the Europe area during 2017.

The average revenue per TEU on all outbound cargoes from Europe was 2% better than that of 2016, amid a 14% growth in overall 
volume for the region.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

3535

 
Financial Review

Revenue per TEU by Services

US$

1,600 

1,400 

1,200 

1,000 

800 

600 

400 

Q1 2016

Q2 2016

Q3 2016

Q4 2016

Q1 2017

Q2 2017

Q3 2017

Q4 2017

Trans-Pacific

Asia-Europe

Trans-Atlantic

Intra-Asia/Australia

All Trades

Operating Costs

The principal operating costs of the container transport business, including cargo costs, vessel costs, voyage costs, equipment and 
repositioning costs, increased from 2016 mainly as a result of the surge in bunker cost.

Cargo  costs  mainly  consist  of  terminal  charges,  inland  transportation  costs,  commission  and  brokerage,  cargo  assessment  and 
freight tax, all of which are largely paid in the local currencies of the areas in which the activities take place. Cargo cost increased 
by 5% against 2016 level, approximating with lifting growth.

Average Bunker Price per Ton

US$

400

300

200

100

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr May

Jun

Jul

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

Dec

2016

2017

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

36

 
Financial Review

Voyage costs comprise mainly bunker costs, port charges, canal dues, cargo claims and insurance. Bunker price increased from an 
average of US$216 per ton in 2016 to an average of US$313 per ton in 2017, resulting in a 51% surge in bunker cost for the year.

Vessel  costs  include  the  operating  costs  and  depreciation  charges  relating  to  the  OOCL  fleet  as  well  as  the  net  charter  hire  and 
slot hire expenses incurred in order to maintain the scheduled service levels. With the phase-in of larger capacity vessels, the total 
carrying capacity grew from 574,318 TEU as at the end of 2016 to 698,401 TEU in 2017, while the total number of vessels operated 
by OOCL, both owned and chartered-in, increased from 96 to 102. As such, total vessel and voyage costs, other than bunker costs, 
for 2017 increased by 5% from those of 2016.

Equipment  costs  principally  represent  maintenance  and  repair  costs,  rental  payments,  depot  expenses  and  depreciation  charges 
relating  to  the  fleet  of  containers  and  chassis  equipment,  while  repositioning  costs  arise  mainly  from  the  relocation  of  empty 
containers from areas of low activity to high demand regions. The container fleet size increased from 1,031,583 TEU in 2016 to 
1,146,548 TEU in 2017 while the increment in total equipment and repositioning costs was contained at 9% with increased owned 
equipment and less rental outgoings.

2016

14%

19%

9%

Operating costs

2017

14%

18%

58%

56%

12%

Cargo costs

Bunker costs

Vessel and voyage costs
(excluding Bunker)

Equipment and 
repositioning costs

Business and Administrative Expenses

Business  and  administrative  expenses  largely  comprise  staff  costs,  office  expenses,  selling  and  marketing  costs,  professional  and 
information  system  expenses.  Business  and  administrative  expenses  increased  by  US$19.5  million,  or  4%  when  compared  with 
2016.

Other Income, net

Other income, comprising principally net foreign exchange differences, net profit or loss on the disposal of assets and other non-
operating gains/losses, net for 2017 was similar with that of 2016.

Operating margin

Operating  margin  improved  from  a  negative  4%  in  2016  to  positive  1%  in  2017.  The  recovery  in  freight  rates,  coupled  with  a 
moderate lifting growth, helped offsetting the negative impact from rising bunker costs to return in profitability for the Container 
Transport and Logistics business in 2017.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

3737

 
Financial Review

Other Activities

Summary of Operating Results

US$’000

Rental income
Elimination

Operating revenue
Operating costs

Gross profit
Investment income
Interest income
Income from investment in Hui Xian
Others

Operating profit

2017

30,619
(461)

30,158
(15,555)

14,603
33,999
21,932
21,786
10,103

102,423

2016

27,986
(616)

27,370
(15,648)

11,722
9,934
14,850
29,048
(19,774)

45,780

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

9%
N/M

10%
1%

25%
242%
48%
(25%)
N/M

124%

Change

2,633
155

2,788
93

2,881
24,065
7,082
(7,262)
29,877

56,643

The  Group  owns  an  approximately  600,000  sq  ft  office  and  commercial  property,  Wall  Street  Plaza,  located  at  88  Pine  Street, 
New York, USA, an area popularly referred to as the “Wall Street area”. The building was constructed in 1972 and is operated as 
a  multi-tenanted  building.  Approximately  8,656  sq  ft  is  occupied  by  Group  companies.  The  Group  also  invests  funds  surplus  to 
operations in cash and bank deposit and, on a longer term basis, in equity and bond portfolios. The Group also owns 7.9% interest 
in Hui Xian Holdings Ltd which is a unit-holder of Hui Xian REIT, the first Renminbi-denominated REIT in Hong Kong.

The operating profit from Other Activities for 2017 was US$56.6 million higher than that of 2016 mainly as a result of remarkable 
return from portfolio investments and favourable exchange on the appreciation of Renminbi and Pound sterling against US dollar.

Rental Income

Rental income from Wall Street Plaza was US$2.8 million higher than that of last year, with an occupancy rate of 99% as at the end 
of 2017.

Investment Income

Investment activities recorded a profit of US$34.0 million for the year compared with a profit of US$9.9 million in 2016. Interest 
income  from  bond  investments  amounted  to  US$22.0  million  for  2017  which  was  at  similar  level  of  last  year.  Fair  value  and 
disposal  gain  totalled  US$10.8  million  in  2017  as  compared  with  a  net  loss  of  US$13.6  million  for  2016  which  included  an 
impairment loss provision for Hui Xian REIT.

US$’000

25,000

20,000

15,000

10,000

5,000

0

(5,000)

(10,000)

(15,000)

Investment Income By Activities

7
0
6
,
2
2

5
9
9
,
1
2

7
1
8
,
0
1

5
6
9

7
8
1
,
1

)
8
3
6
,
3
1
(

Interest income from
investments

2016

2017

Impairment,
fair value and
disposal loss

Dividend income

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

38

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Interest Income

Interest income in 2017 was US$7.1 million more than that of 2016 with a higher average balance available for deposit upon rising 

interest rates.

Income from Investment in Hui Xian

Hui Xian Holdings Ltd declared and paid both cash dividends and dividends in specie in 2017, of which the Group shared a total 

of US$21.2 million. The Group also received US$0.6 million distribution from its holding of Hui Xian REIT to add up a total of 

US$21.8 million income from investment in Hui Xian. In 2016, a total of US$22.1 million from Hui Xian Holdings Ltd, in terms of 

cash dividends and dividends in specie, and a US$6.9 million distribution from Hui Xian REIT were received.

Others

Other  items  include  business  and  administration  expenses  for  property  management,  exchange  differences  and  other 

miscellaneous items. This item recorded a US$29.9 million favourable year-on-year swing as a result of exchange losses incurred 

on the depreciation of Renminbi and Pound sterling against US dollar in 2016 totally reversed during the year by almost the same 

magnitude.

Finance Costs

The  Group  incurs  interest  expenses  on  bank  loans  and  finance  leases.  These  borrowings  are  variously  secured  against  vessels, 

containers, chassis and terminal equipment owned by the Group. Finance costs also include fees on lease administration.

Finance costs increased by US$21.8 million as compared with 2016, principally a result of an increase in borrowings and a higher 

average cost of debt for the year.

Net Gain in Fair Value on Investment Property

As at 31st December 2017, the Group’s investment property, Wall Street Plaza, was valued at US$270 million, up from the US$220 

million valuation at the end of 2016, by an independent valuer. After offsetting a total of US$6.6 million capital outlays, the net 

gain  in  fair  value  for  2017  was  therefore  US$43.4  million.  In  2016,  the  property  recorded  a  valuation  gain  of  US$20.0  million 

which was offset against capital improvements of US$1.5 million to result in a net fair value gain of US$18.5 million.

Share of Profits of Joint Ventures and Associated Companies

Share of profits of joint ventures and associated companies mainly represents the Group’s investment in a depot joint venture in 

Qingdao,  two  agency  joint  ventures  in  the  Middle  East,  and  a  20%  stake  in  two  terminals  in  Tianjin  and  Ningbo.  The  share  of 

US$19.1 million profit from joint ventures and associated companies in 2017 was US$1.2 million better than that of 2016.

Profit/(loss) before Taxation

Pre-tax profit for the year was US$150.1 million compared with last year’s loss of US$199.7 million. The rebound in earnings was 

mainly attributable to the improved freight rates experienced by the Container Transport and Logistics business.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

3939

 
Financial Review

Taxation

US$’000

Company and subsidiaries:

North America
Europe
China
Asia and others

Total

2017

2016

Change

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

(3,992)
1,746
6,782
7,897

12,433

8,901
1,330
5,800
3,523

19,554

(12,893)
416
982
4,374

(7,121)

N/M
(31%)
(17%)
(124%)

36%

Taxation for 2017 was US$7.1 million lower than that of 2016 mainly due to tax savings in North America pursuant to the latest 
US tax reform. Taxation in other regions increased, following the improvement in operating results.

Capital Expenditure

US$’000

Container vessels and capitalised dry-docking costs
Vessels under construction
Containers and chassis
Terminal equipment
Vehicles, furniture, computer and other equipment
Computer software
Investment property

2017

18,091
297,264
227,934
45,295
16,668
6,874
6,564

618,690

2016

15,683
260,558
107,711
52,895
27,513
12,799
1,478

478,637

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

15%
14%
112%
(14%)
(39%)
(46%)
344%

29%

Change

2,408
36,706
120,223
(7,600)
(10,845)
(5,925)
5,086

140,053

Capital expenditure increased from US$478.6 million in 2016 to US$618.7 million in 2017. Vessels under construction accounted 
for  48%  and  54%  of  the  total  capital  expenditure  in  2017  and  2016  respectively  while  capital  outlays  on  container  equipment 
increased from 23% of 2016 to 37% in 2017.

Vessels

In  2017,  the  Group  took  delivery  of  five  21,413  TEU  newbuildings  from  Samsung  Heavy  Industries,  Korea  and  the  remaining 
newbuilding  order  as  at  the  end  of  2017  was  scheduled  for  delivery  in  January  2018.  No  further  newbuilding  order  was  placed 
during the year.

Newbuilding Delivery Schedule

Delivery

Jan 2018

Shipyard

Samsung Heavy Industries

Hull No.

HN2177

TEU

21,413

Year of Order

2015

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

40

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Review of Consolidated Balance Sheet

Summary of Consolidated Balance Sheet

US$’000

Property, plant and equipment
Investment property and prepayments of  

lease premiums

Joint ventures and associated companies
Intangible assets
Liquid assets
Accounts receivable and other assets
Other non-current assets

TOTAL ASSETS
Accounts payable and other liabilities
Current taxation

TOTAL ASSETS LESS TRADING LIABILITIES
Long-term borrowings
Current portion of long-term borrowings

Total debt
Deferred liabilities
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

CAPITAL EMPLOYED
Debt to equity ratio
Net debt to equity ratio
Accounts payable as a % of revenue
Accounts receivable as a % of revenue
% return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Net asset value per ordinary share (US$)
Liquid assets per ordinary share (US$)
Share price at 31st December (US$)
Price to book ratio based on share price  

at 31st December

Property, Plant & Equipment

US$’000

Vessels
Containers and chassis
Terminal equipment
Land and buildings
Others

Financial Review

Change

174,784

50,154
13,643
(10,939)
347,517
83,283
6,264

664,706
(41,177)
(3,163)

620,366
440,753
22,693

463,446
(6,307)
163,227

620,366

2017

2016

6,251,457

6,076,673

277,972
165,680
49,204
2,534,463
747,938
42,582

10,069,296
(747,786)
(7,927)

9,313,583
3,930,025
624,158

4,554,183
76,887
4,682,513

9,313,583
0.97
0.43
12.12
9.66
2.99
7.48
4.05
9.67

227,818
152,037
60,143
2,186,946
664,655
36,318

9,404,590
(706,609)
(4,764)

8,693,217
3,489,272
601,465

4,090,737
83,194
4,519,286

8,693,217
0.91
0.42
13.14
8.95
(4.71)
7.22
3.49
4.12

1.29

0.57

2017

4,445,780
1,296,348
423,618
33,650
52,061

2016

4,346,683
1,226,330
413,522
33,732
56,406

Change

99,097
70,018
10,096
(82)
(4,345)

6,251,457

6,076,673

174,784

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

3%

22%
9%
(18%)
16%
13%
17%

7%
6%
66%

7%
13%
4%

11%
(8%)
4%

7%

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

2%
6%
2%
(0%)
(8%)

3%

Container Transport and Logistics remains the core business of the Group and the one in which the majority of property, plant and 
equipment  is  deployed.  The  assets  largely  comprise  container  vessels,  containers  and  chassis,  terminal  equipment,  property  and 
computer equipment.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

4141

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

The increase in property, plant and equipment in 2017 principally reflects the outlays on newbuildings, container boxes and new 
terminal equipment for the Middle Harbor Redevelopment Project.

Investment Property and Prepayments of Lease Premiums

US$’000

Investment property
Prepayments of lease premiums

2017

270,000
7,972

277,972

2016

220,000
7,818

227,818

Change

50,000
154

50,154

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

23%
2%

22%

Investment  property  represents  the  Group’s  commercial  building,  Wall  Street  Plaza,  in  New  York.  The  building  was  valued  at 
US$270.0 million as at the end of 2017 by an independent valuer (2016: US$220.0 million).

Joint Ventures and Associated Companies

US$’000

Joint ventures
Associated companies

2017

16,840
148,840

165,680

2016

11,656
140,381

152,037

Change

5,184
8,459

13,643

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

44%
6%

9%

The  investment  in  associated  companies  comprises  minority  holdings  in  two  container  terminals  in  Tianjin  and  Ningbo.  The 
investments in joint ventures are mainly in connection with (1) a container depot in Qingdao, and (2) two shipping agencies in the 
Middle East. The increase in the investment value in joint ventures and associated companies for 2017 mainly reflected the profit 
accounted for the year.

Intangible Assets

US$’000

Opening balances
Additions
Disposal
Amortisation

Closing balances

2017

60,143
6,874
(6,690)
(11,123)

49,204

2016

55,646
12,799
–
(8,302)

60,143

Change

4,497
(5,925)
(6,690)
(2,821)

(10,939)

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

8%
(46%)
N/M
34%

(18%)

Intangible assets mainly represent internally generated capitalised computer software development costs which are amortised over 
a period of five years.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

42

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Liquid Assets

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities
Cash and portfolio funds
Held-to-maturity investments

Total liquid assets

2017

388,187
46,700
1,864,647
234,929

2,534,463

2016

248,748
45,243
1,656,038
236,917

2,186,946

Change

139,439
1,457
208,609
(1,988)

347,517

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

56%
3%
13%
(1%)

16%

The  Group  adopts  a  central  treasury  system  under  which  a  part  of  the  funds  surplus  to  planned  requirements  is  set  aside  for 
portfolio investments in fixed income bonds or equities managed by in-house managers under guidelines imposed by the Board.

The Group’s investment portfolios are largely invested in US dollar bonds, short-term cash deposits or similar instruments, and 
listed equities. No investments are made in derivative investment products.

Held-to-maturity investments are entirely bonds intended to be held until maturity.

The Group’s total liquid assets at the end of 2016 and 2017 can be further analysed as follows:

US$’000

2017

2016

Change

Bank balances and deposits maturing within  
three months from the date of placement

Bank deposits maturing over  

three months from the date of placement

Cash and bank balances (per balance sheet)
Restricted bank balances
Portfolio investments
Held-to-maturity investments

Total liquid assets

Accounts Receivable and Other Assets

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities

1,940,975

1,625,219

315,756

–

1,940,975
63,839
294,720
234,929

2,534,463

457

1,625,676
1,426
322,927
236,917

2,186,946

2017

677,977
69,961

747,938

2016

545,832
118,823

664,655

(457)

315,299
62,413
(28,207)
(1,988)

347,517

Change

132,145
(48,862)

83,283

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

19%

(100%)

19%
4377%
(9%)
(1%)

16%

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

24%
(41%)

13%

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

4343

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Accounts receivable and other assets for Container Transport and Logistics increased by US$132.1 million to US$678.0 million at 
the end of 2017. The increase was mainly attributable to the higher revenue achieved for the year.

Ageing Analysis of Trade Receivables

2016

2017

6%

2%

7%

3%

92%

90%

Below 1 month

2-3 months

Over 3 months

Accounts Payable and Other Liabilities

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities

2017

742,103
5,683

747,786

2016

700,380
6,229

706,609

Change

41,723
(546)

41,177

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

6%
(9%)

6%

Accounts payable and other liabilities at the end of 2017 were US$41.2 million higher than that of 2016, mainly due to increases in 
cost provisions to cope with growth in business volume.

Ageing Analysis of Trade Payables

2016

2017

22%

6%

78%

72%

18%

4%

Below 1 month

2-3 months

Over 3 months

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

44

 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Total Debt

US$’000

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations

2017

2,097,422
2,456,761

4,554,183

2016

2,198,407
1,892,330

4,090,737

Change

(100,985)
564,431

463,446

Increase/
(decrease)
 %

(5%)
30%

11%

Total  debt  increased  by  US$463.4  million  compared  with  2016,  as  a  result  of  the  financial  obligations  incurred  upon  capital 
expenditures on newbuildings and other equipment during the year offset in part by scheduled repayments.

Total scheduled debt repayment between 2018 and 2022 is US$2,963.1 million, being equivalent to 65% of the total outstanding 
debt  as  at  31st  December  2017.  Details  of  the  repayment  profile  of  the  Group’s  borrowings  are  set  out  in  Note  37  to  the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Debt Profile

As at the end of 2017, 100% (2016: 100%) of the Group’s total debt was denominated in US dollar which effectively eliminated the 
risk of exchange fluctuations.

Of  the  total  US$4,554.2  million  debt  outstanding  at  the  end  of  2017,  US$892.3  million  was  fixed-rate  debt  and  the  remaining 
US$3,661.9 million was subject to floating interest rates at various competitive spreads over one-month to six-month LIBOR (or 
equivalent) and related principally to the financing of vessels and container equipment. The Group’s average cost of debt at 31st 
December 2017 was 2.9% (2016: 2.1%).

Net Debt to Equity Ratio

This  ratio  changed  to  0.43:1  as  at  the  end  of  2017  from  0.42:1  as  at  the  end  of  2016  mainly  due  to  increase  in  net  debts  for 
newbuilding  orders  and  new  equipment  acquired  in  2017.  This  ratio  will  be  closely  monitored  in  the  light  of  the  delivery  and 
financing of new vessels ordered and business forecasts over the next three years. It is the Group’s objective to keep this key ratio 
below a threshold of 1.0.

Net Debt to Equity Ratio

Ratio

0.40

0.20

0.00

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

Shareholders’ Equity

As  at  31st  December  2017,  the  Company  had  625,793,297  shares  in  issue,  consisting  entirely  of  ordinary  shares.  With  profit 
recorded for the year, the Group’s consolidated shareholders’ equity increased by US$163.2 million to US$4,682.5 million as at the 
end of 2017 with a net asset value per ordinary share of US$7.48 (2016: US$7.22). Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity 
is a key measure for the Group’s objective to continuously enhance shareholders’ value. This ratio changed from negative 5% in 
2016 to positive 3% in 2017, as a result of improved freight rates for the core Container Transport and Logistics business.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

4545

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

Operating Leases and Commitments

In  addition  to  the  owned  operating  assets,  the  Group  employs  assets  through  operating  lease  arrangements  as  detailed  in  Note 
40(b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Assets under operating lease arrangements consist primarily of container boxes, 
container vessels and a terminal in North America.

As at the end of 2017, the Group had outstanding capital commitments amounting to US$284.4 million, principally represented by 
the outstanding orders for a new container vessel, new container boxes and new equipment for the Middle Harbor Redevelopment 
Project.

Analysis of Change in Liquid Assets

US$’000

Net inflow from operations

Other inflow:

Interest and investment income
Sale of property, plant and equipment and 

investments
New financing
Cash from joint ventures and associated companies
Fair value gain on portfolio investments
Others

Other outflow:

Interest and financing charges paid
Dividends paid to shareholders
Taxation paid
Increase in property, plant and equipment,  

investments, and non-current assets

Loan repayments

Net inflow/(outflow)
Beginning liquid asset balances
Changes in exchange rates

2017

470,694

2016

149,343

Change

321,351

56,206

55,802

404

66,969
1,106,882
11,288
4,713
13,280

1,259,338

(90,095)
(13,388)
(10,241)

(481,729)
(788,914)

22,130
559,289
12,255
3,658
–

653,134

(72,343)
(11,604)
(8,529)

(291,166)
(787,761)

44,839
547,593
(967)
1,055
13,280

606,204

(17,752)
(1,784)
(1,712)

(190,563)
(1,153)

(1,384,367)

(1,171,403)

(212,964)

345,665
2,186,946
1,852

(368,926)
2,548,976
6,896

714,591
(362,030)
(5,044)

Ending liquid asset balances

2,534,463

2,186,946

347,517

Represented by:

Unrestricted bank balances and deposits
Restricted bank balances 
Portfolio investments
Held-to-maturity investments

1,940,975
63,839
294,720
234,929

1,625,676
1,426
322,927
236,917

2,534,463

2,186,946

315,299
62,413
(28,207)
(1,988)

347,517

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
 %

215%

1%

203%
98%
(8%)
29%
N/M

93%

(25%)
(15%)
(20%)

(65%)
(0%)

(18%)

N/M
(14%)
(73%)

16%

19%
4377%
(9%)
(1%)

16%

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

46

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Review

A  net  inflow  of  US$345.7  million  was  recorded  in  2017  compared  with  a  net  outflow  of  US$368.9  million  in  2016.  Operating 

inflow  of  US$470.7  million  for  the  year  was  US$321.4  million  higher  than  that  of  2016  with  improved  operating  results.  The 

capital  payments  in  2017  mainly  reflected  the  scheduled  stage  payments  arranged  for  the  ordered  vessels  and  the  acquisition  of 

container and terminal equipment. The higher drawdowns in 2017 also reflected the financing of vessels delivered and equipment 

acquired during the year. Total liquid asset balances increased to US$2,534.5 million at the end of 2017, against US$2,186.9 million 

in 2016.

Liquidity

As  at  31st  December  2017,  the  Group  had  total  liquid  asset  balances  of  US$2,534.5  million  compared  with  debt  obligations  of 

US$624.2 million repayable in 2018. Total current assets at the end of 2017 amounted to US$2,964.7 million against total current 

liabilities  of  US$1,379.9  million.  The  Group’s  shareholders’  equity  contains  no  loan  capital.  The  Group  prepares  and  updates 

cashflow  forecasts  for  asset  acquisitions,  project  development  requirements,  as  well  as  working  capital  needs,  from  time  to  time 

with  the  objective  of  maintaining  a  proper  balance  between  a  conservative  liquidity  level  and  an  effective  investment  of  surplus 

funds.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

4747

 
Board of Directors

Board of Directors

Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen,  aged  75,  has  been  appointed  as  the  Chairman, 
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since October 1996. 
Mr.  Tung  chairs  the  Executive  Committee,  the  Nomination  Committee,  the 
Inside Information Committee and the Risk Committee of the Company and 
is  a  member  of  the  Remuneration  Committee  of  the  Company.  He  is  also 
the chairman or a director of various subsidiaries of the Company. Mr. Tung 
graduated from the University of Liverpool, England, where he received his 
Bachelor  of  Science  degree  and  acquired  a  Master’s  degree  in  Mechanical 
Engineering  at  the  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology  in  the  United 
States.  He  has  been  awarded  the  Gold  Bauhinia  Star  by  the  Government  of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for his long and distinguished 
public services, particularly his dedicated support and notable contributions 
to the development of the logistics and maritime industries in the past years. 
Mr.  Tung  is  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  U-Ming  Marine 
Transport  Corp.,  a  listed  company.  He  was  formerly  an  Independent  Non-
Executive  Director  of  Cathay  Pacific  Airways  Limited,  a  company  listed  in 
Hong  Kong,  and  was  a  member  of  the  Hong  Kong  Logistics  Development 
Council. Mr. Tung is the brother of Mr. Tung Chee Hwa who has an interest 
in a trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala Way 
Company  Inc.  (substantial  shareholders  of  the  Company);  the  brother-in-
law  of  Professor  Roger  King  (a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company); 
and  the  uncle  of  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew  (an  Executive  Director  of 
the  Company)  and  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan  (an  Executive  Director  and 
Chief Financial Officer of the Company). Mr. Tung is either a director, or a 
director  of  a  company  which  is  a  corporate  director,  of  certain  substantial 
shareholders  of  the  Company  which  have  disclosure  interests  in  the 
Company under the provisions of the Securities and Futures Ordinance.

TUNG Chee Chen

Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew, aged 53, has been an Executive Director of the Company 
since  2nd  November  2011  and  is  a  member  of  the  Executive  Committee,  the  Inside 
Information Committee and the Risk Committee of the Company. He has been a Director 
and  a  member  of  the  Executive  Committee  of  Orient  Overseas  Container  Line  Limited 
(“OOCLL”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, since March 2006, and the Chief 
Executive  Officer  and  Senior  Managing  Director  of  OOCLL  since  1st  July  2012.  He  is 
also  a  director  of  various  subsidiaries  of  the  Company.  Between  1993  and  1998,  he  has 
served  the  Group  in  various  capacities  including  Director  of  Reefer  Trade  of  OOCLL. 
The last position Mr. Tung held in Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Limited prior to joining 
OOCLL in 2006 was the Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Tung holds a Bachelor degree from 
Princeton  University  and  a  Master  of  Business  Administration  degree  from  Stanford 
University  in  the  USA.  Mr.  Tung  is  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  Cathay 
Pacific Airways Limited (a company listed in Hong Kong) and Standard Chartered Bank 
(Hong Kong) Limited. He is currently a member of the Hong Kong Logistics Development 
Council,  a  member  of  the  Hong  Kong  Maritime  and  Port  Board,  the  Chairman  of  the 
Maritime  and  Port  Development  Committee;  and  a  member  of  the  Chief  Executive’s 
Council  of  Advisers  on  Innovation  and  Strategic  Development  since  21st  March  2018. 
He  was  the  Vice-Chairman  of  the  International  Chamber  of  Commerce  Commission 
for  Transport  &  Logistics  and  a  member  of  the  Executive  Committee  of  Hong  Kong 
Shipowners Association. Mr. Tung is the son of Mr. Tung Chee Hwa who has an interest 
in  a  trust  which  has  an  indirect  interest  in  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  and  Gala  Way  Company 
Inc. (substantial shareholders of the Company), and is the brother of Mr. Tung Lieh Sing 
Alan  (an  Executive  Director  and  Chief  Financial  Officer  of  the  Company).  He  is  the 
nephew  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  (the  Chairman,  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer 
of the Company) who has an interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune 
Crest  Inc.  and  Gala  Way  Company  Inc.  (substantial  shareholders  of  the  Company),  and 
Professor Roger King (a Non-Executive Director of the Company). Mr. Tung is a director 
of certain substantial shareholders of the Company which have disclosure interests in the 
Company under the provisions of the Securities and Futures Ordinance.

TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

48

 
Board of Directors

Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan, aged 50, has been an Executive Director of the Company since 
1st May 2005, and has been re-designated from the Acting Chief Financial Officer to the 
Chief Financial Officer of the Company since 1st January 2016. Mr. Tung is a member of 
the Executive Committee, the Compliance Committee, the Inside Information Committee 
and  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company.  Mr.  Tung  has  been  with  the  Group  in  various 
capacities for twenty five years and is a Director of various subsidiaries of the Company. 
Mr.  Tung  graduated  from  Princeton  University,  Politics  Department  with  a  Bachelor  of 
Arts degree. Mr. Tung has been appointed as non-official Justice of Peace since 2017. He 
is  a  board  member  of  Hong  Kong  Maritime  Museum  Limited,  an  executive  committee 
member  of  the  International  Association  of  Dry  Cargo  Shipowners  (Intercargo)  and  a 
member  of  the  Maritime  Leasing  Working  Group  under  the  New  Business  Committee 
of  Financial  Services  Development  Council.  Mr.  Tung  served  as  Chairman  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Shipowners  Association  from  2012  to  2013  and  currently  is  an  executive 
committee member. Mr. Tung is a non-executive director of both The Steamship Mutual 
Underwriting  Association  (Bermuda)  Limited  and  The  Steamship  Mutual  Underwriting 
Association  Limited.  He  did  not  hold  directorships  in  any  other  public  companies  listed 
in  Hong  Kong  and  overseas  in  the  last  three  years.  He  was  a  member  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Economic Development Commission. Mr. Tung is the son of Mr. Tung Chee Hwa who has 
an  interest  in  a  trust  which  has  an  indirect  interest  in  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  and  Gala  Way 
Company Inc. (substantial shareholders of the Company), and is the brother of Mr. Tung 
Lieh  Cheung  Andrew  (an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company).  He  is  the  nephew  of  Mr. 
Tung Chee Chen (the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company) 
who has an interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune Crest Inc. and Gala 
Way Company Inc. (substantial shareholders of the Company), and Professor Roger King 
(a Non-Executive Director of the Company).

Professor Roger King, aged 77, has been a Non-Executive Director of the Company since 
March 2000 and was an Executive Director of the Company from 1992. He is a member of 
the  Finance  Committee,  the  Share  Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company. 
He  was  a  Director  of  Orient  Overseas  (Holdings)  Limited  (“OOHL”)  from  1983  to  1992 
and  the  Managing  Director  and  Chief  Operating  Officer  of  OOHL  from  1985  to  1987. 
Professor  King  is  a  graduate  of  the  University  of  Michigan,  BSEE;  New  York  University, 
MSEE;  Harvard  Business  School,  AMP;  and  The  Hong  Kong  University  of  Science  and 
Technology  (“HKUST”),  PhD  in  Finance.  He  is  the  Honorary  Consul  of  the  Republic  of 
Latvia  in  Hong  Kong,  and  an  Adjunct  Professor  of  Finance,  Director  of  Tanoto  Center 
for  Asian  Family  Business  and  Entrepreneurship  Studies  and  Director  of  Thompson 
Center  for  Business  Case  Studies  at  HKUST.  Professor  King  was  an  Independent  Non-
Executive Director of Sincere Watch (Hong Kong) Limited (listed on the Hong Kong Stock 
Exchange), a member of the Supervisory Board of both TNT Express N.V. and TNT N.V. 
(both  are  listed  on  the  Amsterdam  Stock  Exchange),  Chairman  and  founder  of  System-
Pro  Computers  Limited,  one  of  the  largest  personal  computer  reseller  in  Hong  Kong, 
Chairman of Pacific Coffee Limited and a member of the Standing Committee of Zhejiang 
Province People’s Political Consultative Conference. He also worked in computer research 
and  management  consultancy  at  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories.  Professor  King  is  the 
brother-in-law of Mr. Tung Chee Hwa who has an interest in a trust which has an indirect 
interest  in  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  and  Gala  Way  Company  Inc.  (substantial  shareholders  of 
the  Company),  and  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  (the  Chairman,  President  and  Chief  Executive 
Officer  of  the  Company)  who  has  an  interest  in  a  trust  which  has  an  indirect  interest 
in  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  and  Gala  Way  Company  Inc.  (substantial  shareholders  of  the 
Company),  and  the  uncle  of  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew  (an  Executive  Director  of 
the  Company)  and  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan  (an  Executive  Director  and  Chief  Financial 
Officer of the Company).

TUNG Lieh Sing Alan

Professor Roger KING

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

4949

Board of Directors

Simon MURRAY

CHOW Philip Yiu Wah

Mr. Simon Murray, CBE, aged 77, has been an Independent Non-Executive Director of the 
Company  since  1992  and  was  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  Orient  Overseas  (Holdings) 
Limited  from  1989  until  1992.  He  serves  as  a  member  on  the  Audit  Committee  of  the 
Company.  He  is  the  Chairman  of  General  Enterprise  Management  Services  Limited,  an 
Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  Wing  Tai  Properties  Limited  (formerly  known 
as  USI  Holdings  Limited)  and  IRC  Limited;  and  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  China 
LNG Group Limited and Greenheart Group Limited, all of which are companies listed in 
Hong  Kong.  Mr.  Murray  is  also  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  Spring  Asset 
Management  Limited,  manager  of  Spring  Real  Estate  Investment  Trust  which  is  listed  in 
Hong Kong. Mr. Murray was formerly a Non-Executive Director of Compagnie Financière 
Richemont SA, a company listed in Switzerland; an Independent Non-Executive Director 
of  Cheung  Kong  (Holdings)  Limited,  a  company  previously  listed  in  Hong  Kong  until 
withdrawal of its listing on 18th March 2015; an Independent Non-Executive Director of 
CK  Hutchison  Holdings  Limited  and  Cheung  Kong  Property  Holdings  Limited,  both  of 
which  are  companies  listed  in  Hong  Kong;  and  the  Vice  Chairman  and  an  Independent 
Non-Executive  Director  of  Essar  Energy  Plc,  a  company  listed  in  the  United  Kingdom; 
and  the  Chairman  and  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  Gulf  Keystone 
Petroleum  Ltd.,  a  company  listed  in  the  United  Kingdom.  Mr.  Murray  is  a  member  of 
the  Former  Directors  Committee  of  The  Community  Chest  of  Hong  Kong  and  has  been 
involved in a number of other charitable organisations, including Save The Children Fund 
and The China Coast Community Association.

Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  aged  70,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director 
of  the  Company  since  2nd  January  2015.  He  is  the  chairman  of  the  Remuneration 
Committee  and  a  member  of  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Nomination  Committee,  the 
Finance  Committee,  the  Share  Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee  of  the  Company.  He 
was  an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company  from  1st  December  2003  to  30th  June  2012, 
a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  from  1st  July  2012  to  1st  January  2015  and  a 
consultant of the Company from 1st July 2012 to 31st December 2014. Mr. Chow holds a 
Bachelor of Science degree in Chemistry and Physics from the University of Hong Kong 
and  a  Master  of  Business  Administration  degree  from  the  Chinese  University  of  Hong 
Kong. He did not hold directorships in any other public companies listed in Hong Kong 
and overseas in the last three years.

Professor  Wong  Yue  Chim  Richard,  aged  65,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive 
Director  of  the  Company  since  December  2003.  He  is  the  chairman  of  the  Audit 
Committee  and  a  member  of  the  Nomination  Committee  and  the  Remuneration 
Committee  of  the  Company.  He  graduated  from  University  of  Chicago  with  Bachelor’s, 
Master’s and Ph.D. degrees in Economics and is the Chair of Economics at The University 
of  Hong  Kong.  He  has  been  active  in  advancing  economic  research  on  policy  issues 
in  Hong  Kong  and  China.  He  was  awarded  the  Silver  Bauhinia  Star  in  1999  by  the 
Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  for  his  contributions  in 
education,  housing,  industry  and  technology  development.  He  was  appointed  Justice 
of  the  Peace  in  July  2000.  Professor  Wong  is  currently  an  Independent  Non-Executive 
Director  of  three  other  listed  companies  in  Hong  Kong,  namely  Great  Eagle  Holdings 
Limited,  Pacific  Century  Premium  Developments  Limited  and  Sun  Hung  Kai  Properties 
Limited.  He  was  formerly  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  CK  Life  Sciences 
Int’l.,  (Holdings)  Inc.,  a  company  listed  in  Hong  Kong,  and  Link  Asset  Management 
Limited, the manager of Link Real Estate Investment Trust, a unit trust listed in Hong Kong.

Professor WONG Yue Chim Richard

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

50

Mr.  Cheng  Wai  Sun  Edward,  aged  62,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director 
of the Company since 19th March 2009. He serves as a member on the Audit Committee 
of  the Company. Mr. Cheng  graduated  from  Cornell University with a Bachelor’s degree 
in  Political  Science  and  Economics,  and  Oxford  University  with  a  Bachelor’s  degree 
in  Jurisprudence  and  a  Master’s  degree.  He  was  qualified  as  a  solicitor  in  England  and 
Wales  as  well  as  in  Hong  Kong.  He  is  a  Justice  of  the  Peace  and  has  been  awarded  the 
Silver  Bauhinia  Star  by  the  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  (“HKSAR”).  Mr.  Cheng  is  an  Executive  Director,  Chief  Executive  and  Deputy 
Chairman  of  Wing  Tai  Properties  Limited,  a  company  listed  in  Hong  Kong  and  also  an 
Independent Non-Executive Director of Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited. 
He  is  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Securities  and  Futures  Commission  and  has  been 
appointed  as  a  member  of  the  Chief  Executive’s  Council  of  Advisers  on  Innovation  and 
Strategic Development since 21st March 2018. Mr. Cheng has many years of public service 
experience  in  urban  renewal,  housing,  finance,  corruption  prevention,  technology  and 
education. Mr. Cheng was a member of the board of The Airport Authority Hong Kong, a 
member of the Commission on Strategic Development of the Government of the HKSAR, 
a  member  and  the  Chairman  of  the  University  Grants  Committee,  the  Chairman  of  the 
Urban  Renewal  Authority  and  a  member  of  the  Advisory  Committee  on  Corruption 
of  the  Independent  Commission  Against  Corruption.  He  has  also  previously  served  on 
the  Government  of  the  HKSAR’s  Steering  Committee  on  Innovation  &  Technology,  the 
Council  of  the  Education  University  of  Hong  Kong  (formerly  known  as  the  Hong  Kong 
Institute  of  Education),  the  Council  of  the  City  University  of  Hong  Kong,  the  Council 
of  the  Hong  Kong  Polytechnic  University,  the  Executive  Committee  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Housing Society, the Council of the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants, 
the Securities and Futures Commission’s Takeovers and Mergers Panel and the Takeovers 
Appeal Committee, and was a part-time member of the Central Policy Unit.

Mr.  Kwok  King  Man  Clement, Chevalier de la Légion d’Honneur,  aged  58,  has  been 
an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  and  a  member  of  the  Audit 
Committee  of  the  Company  since  2nd  July  2015.  Mr.  Kwok  holds  a  bachelor  of  Science 
in Economics from the London School of Economics. He is a member of the Institute of 
Chartered  Accountants  in  England  and  Wales  and  the  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified 
Public  Accountants.  Mr.  Kwok  is  the  Managing  Director  and  Chief  Executive  Officer 
of  The  Hongkong  and  Shanghai  Hotels,  Limited,  a  company  listed  in  Hong  Kong.  His 
career began with Price Waterhouse and Barclays de Zoete Wedd in the United Kingdom, 
following  which  he  returned  to  Hong  Kong  in  1986  to  work  with  Schroders  Asia,  where 
he  was  appointed  as  Head  of  Corporate  Finance  in  1991.  From  1996  to  2002,  Mr.  Kwok 
served as Finance Director of MTR Corporation. Mr. Kwok is a former Independent Non-
Executive  Director  of  Swire  Pacific  Limited,  a  company  listed  in  Hong  Kong.  Mr.  Kwok 
is a Fellow of The Hong Kong Management Association, a Council Member of the World 
Travel & Tourism Council, a Member of the International Advisory Council of the Faculty 
of Business and Economics of The University of Hong Kong and an Honorary Adviser to 
the  Financial  Reporting  Council.  Over  his  long  career  in  Hong  Kong,  he  has  served  on 
the  Stock  Exchange  Listing  Committee,  the  Takeovers  and  Mergers  Panel,  the  Securities 
and  Futures  Appeals  Tribunal,  the  Hang  Seng  Index  Advisory  Committee  and  the 
Harbourfront Commission, as well as the Interpretations Committee of the International 
Accounting Standards Board in London.

Board of Directors

CHENG Wai Sun Edward

KWOK King Man Clement

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

5151

Senior Management 

Senior Management 

Michael Fitzgerald

Raymond Fung

Mr. Fitzgerald, aged 44, joined the Group in September 2014 as 
Group Finance Director and has been the Group Deputy Chief 
Financial  Officer  since  December  2015.  He  was  appointed 
a  member  of  the  OOCL  Executive  Committee  in  December 
2014.  Mr.  Fitzgerald  holds  the  degrees  of  BA  and  MA  from 
the  University  of  Oxford,  and  is  a  Fellow  of  the  Institute  of 
Chartered  Accountants  in  England  and  Wales.  Mr.  Fitzgerald 
started  his  career  at  KPMG  in  London  in  August  1995,  and 
having  qualified  as  a  Chartered  Accountant,  moved  to  the 
Structured  Finance  division  of  Société  Générale  in  January 
1999,  where  he  enjoyed  an  almost  16-year  career,  holding 
various posts in London, Hong Kong and Paris.

Mr.  Fung,  aged  59,  has  been  the  Director  of  Trades  since 
January  2016  and  Director  of  Intra-Asia  Trade  until  2015.  He 
was  appointed  a  member  of  the  OOCL  Executive  Committee 
since  November  2015.  Mr.  Fung  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Business 
Administration  General  Business  Management  from  the  
Chinese University of Hong Kong. Mr. Fung joined the Group 
in  1983  and  has  served  the  Group  in  various  capacities  for  34 
years, including as General Manager of Operations, Managing 
Director  of  OOCL  (UAE),  Director  of  Australia  Trade,  and 
General Manager of Corporate Methods and Tools.

Teddy Fung

Lammy Lee

Mr.  Fung,  aged  57,  has  been  the  Director  of  Regions 
Management since January 2016 and the Director of Corporate 
Operation since September 2013. He was appointed a member 
of the OOCL Executive Committee since November 2015. Mr. 
Fung  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Social  Science  in  Economics  and  a 
Master  of  Arts  in  Transport  Studies  from  the  University  of 
Hong Kong. Mr. Fung joined the Group in 1994 and has served 
the  Group  in  various  capacities  for  23  years,  including  as 
General  Manager  of  OOCL  South  China  sub-region,  Director 
of Reefer Trade, and Managing Director of OOCL Hong Kong 
Branch.

Ms. Lee, aged 56, has been the Company Secretary and Group 
Legal  Advisor  of  OOIL  since  February  1997  and  Compliance 
Officer of OOIL since June 2004. She was appointed a Director 
of  OOCL  and  a  member  of  the  OOCL  Executive  Committee 
since  April  2011.  Ms.  Lee  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Laws  from 
Queen  Mary  College,  University  of  London,  a  Barrister  and 
member  of  Lincoln’s  Inn  and  admitted  as  an  advocate  and 
solicitor  of  the  High  Court  of  Malaya.  Ms.  Lee  joined  the 
Group in 1988 and has served the Group in various capacities 
for 29 years.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

52

 
Senior Management 

Stephen Ng

Steve Siu

Mr.  Ng,  aged  59,  has  been  the  Director  of  Trades  since  July 
2012 and a Director of OOCL since August 2010. He is also the 
official spokesperson for OOCL. Before being transferred back 
to  Hong  Kong  in  2010  to  serve  as  the  Director  of  Corporate 
Planning,  he  worked  in  California  for  seven  years  as  Head 
of  Trans-Pacific  Trade.  He  joined  the  Group  in  1987  and 
has  served  in  various  capacities  for  30  years.  Mr.  Ng  holds  a 
Bachelor of Social Sciences degree from the University of Hong 
Kong and a Master of Business Administration degree from the 
Chinese University of Hong Kong.

Mr. Siu, aged 60, has been the Chief Information Officer and a 
Director  of  OOCL  since  November  2006  and  Chief  Executive 
Officer of CargoSmart since January 2002. He holds a Bachelor 
of  Science  and  a  Master  of  Science  from  University  of  Essex, 
UK, and a Master of Business Administration jointly organised 
by  Northwestern  University  and  the  Hong  Kong  University  of 
Science and Technology. Mr. Siu joined the Group in 1987 and 
has served the Group in various capacities for 30 years.

Erxin Yao

Kenny Ye

Mr. Yao, aged 61, has been a Director of OOCL since January 
2010  and  a  Director  of  Corporate  Planning  and  Corporation 
Administration  since  January  2013.  He  holds  a  Bachelor  of 
Arts  from  Toronto/Fudan  University  joint  program  and  a 
Master of International Affairs from Columbia University. Mr. 
Yao  joined  the  Group  in  1993  and  has  served  the  Group  in 
various  capacities  for  24  years,  including  as  Executive  Vice-
President  and  Head  of  Corporate  Services  of  OOCL  Logistics 
in  Hong  Kong,  Managing  Director  of  Orient  Overseas 
Container Line (China) Co., Ltd. and OOCL Logistics (China) 
Limited based in Shanghai, and President of OOCL (USA) Inc.

Mr. Ye, aged 54, has been the Chief Executive Officer of OOCL 
Logistics  and  a  member  of  the  OOCL  Executive  Committee 
since  November  2015.  He  holds  a  Diploma  of  Accounting 
in  Lixin  Accounting  Institute  and  a  Master  of  Business 
Administration  from  Oklahoma  City  University.  Mr.  Ye 
joined the Group in 1994 and has served the Group in various 
capacities  for  23  years.  Following  his  assignment  in  Shanghai, 
Mr.  Ye  was  transferred  to  Hong  Kong  in  2004  and  has  served 
the Group in various capacities, including as Director of Asia-
Europe  Trade,  Director  of  Intra-Asia  Trade  and  the  Chief 
Operating Officer of OOCL Logistics.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

5353

Financial Calendar

Financial Calendar

Announcement of results for the half year ended 30th June 2017

7th August 2017

Despatch of 2017 Interim Report to shareholders

31st August 2017

Announcement of results for the year ended 31st December 2017

12th March 2018

Despatch of 2017 Annual Report to shareholders

9th April 2018

Closure of the Register of Members 

(to ascertain the shareholders eligible to attend and 

vote at the Annual General Meeting)

27th April 2018 to 

4th May 2018 

(Both days inclusive)

2017 Annual General Meeting

4th May 2018

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

54

 
Shareholder Information

Shareholder Information

ORDINARY SHARES

Issued shares
Nominal value per share
Board lot

625,793,297 shares (as at 31st December 2017)
US$0.10
500 shares

ANNUAL REPORT

This annual report is available in both English and Chinese.

Shareholders can obtain copies by writing to:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited

17M Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong

If you are not a shareholder, please write to:

Orient Overseas (International) Limited

33rd Floor, Harbour Centre

25 Harbour Road

Wanchai, Hong Kong

Attention: Company Secretary

This annual report is also available at our website at http://www.ooilgroup.com.

SHAREHOLDER SERVICES

Any  matter  relating  to  your  shareholding,  including  transfer  of  shares,  change  of  name  or  address,  and  loss  of  share  certificates 

should be addressed in writing to:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited
17M Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong
Telephone: (852) 2862 8555

Facsimile: (852) 2865 0990

SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES

Any matter relating to shareholders’ rights should be addressed in writing to:

Orient Overseas (International) Limited

33rd Floor, Harbour Centre

25 Harbour Road

Wanchai, Hong Kong

Attention: Company Secretary

Our enquiry hotline is operational during normal office hours:

Telephone: (852) 2833 3888

Facsimile: (852) 2531 8147

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

5555

 
Shareholder Information

SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION

Ordinary shareholder information as at 31st December 2017:

Type of shareholders

Type of shareholders

Corporate
Individual

Distribution of shareholdings

Size of shareholdings

1 – 10,000
10,001 – 100,000
100,001 – 1,000,000
1,000,001 or above

Ten largest ordinary shareholders

Shareholders

Shares of US$0.10 each

Number

Percentage

Number

Percentage

21
773

794

2.6448%
97.3552%

621,933,810
3,859,487

100.00%

625,793,297

99.3833%
0.6167%

100.00%

Shareholders

Shares of US$0.10 each

Number

Percentage

Number

Percentage

753
35
2
4

794

94.8363%
4.4081%
0.2519%
0.5037%

963,040
1,011,729
752,731
623,065,797

100.00%

625,793,297

0.1539%
0.1617%
0.1203%
99.5641%

100.00%

At  31st  December  2017,  the  interests  of  the  ten  largest  ordinary  shareholders  of  the  Company,  as  recorded  in  the  Company’s 

principal register and Hong Kong branch register of members, were as follows:

Number of 
ordinary shares held

Percentage

350,722,656
191,856,598
79,227,432
1,259,111
612,731
140,000
72,600
70,500
50,000
48,454

56.04%
30.66%
12.66%
0.20%
0.10%
0.02%
0.01%
0.01%
0.01%
0.01%

Name of ordinary shareholders

Fortune Crest Inc.
HKSCC Nominees Limited
Gala Way Company Inc.
Mok Kwun Cheung
Chang Tsann Rong Ernest
So Tung Lam
Lui Siu Sun
Po Leung Kuk
Poon Chiu Leung
Ho Hin Kwong

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

56

Corporate Governance Report

Corporate Governance Report

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE

The  Board  of  Directors  (the  “Board”)  and  the  management  of  the  Company  are  committed  to  maintaining  high  standards  of 

corporate  governance  and  the  Company  considers  that  effective  corporate  governance  makes  an  important  contribution  to 

corporate success and to the enhancement of shareholder value.

The Company has adopted its own corporate governance code (the “CG Code”), which in addition to applying the principles as set 

out in the Corporate Governance Code and Corporate Governance Report (the “SEHK Code”) contained in Appendix 14 to the 

Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”), also incorporates 

and conforms to local and international best practices. The CG Code sets out the corporate governance principles applied by the 

Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) and is constantly reviewed to ensure transparency, accountability and independence.

Throughout the year 2017, the Company complied with the SEHK Code, save for the following:

•  Code Provision

Code provision

Deviation

Considered reason for deviation

Separation  of  the  roles 
of  chairman  and  chief 
executive  officer  of  a 
listed issuer

Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  currently 
a s s u m e s  t h e  rol e s  of  b ot h 
Chairman  and  Chief  Executive 
Officer of the Company.

The  executive  members  of  the  Board  currently  consist 
of chief executive officer of the principal division of the 
Group  and  there  is  an  effective  separation  of  the  roles 
between the chief executive of its principal division and 
the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. The Board 
considers  that  further  separation  of  the  roles  of  the 
Chief  Executive  Officer  and  Chairman  would  represent 
duplication and is not necessary for the time being.

•  Recommended Best Practices

• 

• 

the remuneration of senior management is disclosed in bands

operational results, instead of financial results, are announced and published quarterly

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

5757

 
Corporate Governance Report

We have set out in this report our guiding principles and rationale for implementation of the CG Code as well as the status of the 
Company’s compliance with Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules during the year 2017:

A.  BOARD OF DIRECTORS

1.  Board Composition

The  Board  currently  comprises  of  three  Executive  Directors,  one  Non-Executive  Director  and  five  Independent  Non-
Executive Directors.

Executive Directors

Mr. Tung Chee Chen (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan (Chief Financial Officer)

Non-Executive Director

Professor Roger King

Independent Non-Executive Directors

Mr. Simon Murray
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard
Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward
Mr. Kwok King Man Clement

The  biographical  details  of  the  Directors  and  the  relevant  relationships  between  them  are  set  out  on  the  Company’s 
website at http://www.ooilgroup.com and on pages 48 to 51 of this annual report.

The Directors have formal letters of appointment setting out the key terms and conditions of their appointment, and are 
for a fixed term of three years and subject to re-election by rotation at least once every three years.

The  Directors  have  extensive  corporate  and  strategic  planning  experience  and  industry  knowledge.  All  Independent 
Non-Executive Directors are financially independent from the Group bringing independent and diversified experience, 
competencies, skills and judgment to the Group’s strategy and policies through their informed contributions. The Board 
considers that there is a reasonable balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and has provided adequate 
checks and balances for safeguarding the interests of the shareholders and the Group.

The  Company  has  received  from  each  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  a  written  annual  confirmation  of  their 
independence and considers that all the Independent Non-Executive Directors have satisfied their independence to the 
Group up to the date of this annual report.

During  the  year  2017,  the  Board  complied  with  the  Listing  Rules’  requirement  in  having  at  least  three  Independent 
Non-Executive  Directors  representing  at  least  one-third  of  the  Board,  including  one  with  appropriate  professional 
qualifications or accounting or related financial management expertise.

Among the members of the Board, Professor Roger King (Non-Executive Director of the Company) is the brother-in-
law of Mr. Tung Chee Chen (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company). Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung 
Andrew (Executive Director of the Company) is the brother of Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan (Executive Director and Chief 
Financial  Officer  of  the  Company),  and  both  of  them  are  the  nephews  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  and  Professor  Roger 
King.

Directors’ and Officers’ Liabilities Insurance

Since  1992,  the  Company  has  arranged  insurance  cover  for  directors’  and  officers’  liabilities  including  cover  for 
Directors, officers and senior management of the Group arising out of corporate activities.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

58

Corporate Governance Report

2.  Board and Management Responsibilities

The  Board  is  responsible  for  the  overall  strategic  direction  and  management  of  the  business  and  affairs  of  the  Group 
with  the  objective  of  enhancing  shareholder  value  and  presenting  a  balanced,  clear  and  understandable  assessment  of 
the Company’s performance, position and prospects in the annual and interim reports, and announcements and other 
financial  disclosures  as  required  under  the  Listing  Rules,  and  reports  to  regulators  any  information  required  to  be 
disclosed pursuant to statutory requirements.

The Board has a fiduciary duty and statutory responsibility towards the Company and the Group. Other responsibilities 
include formulation of the Group’s overall strategies and policies, setting of corporate and management targets and key 
operational initiatives, setting of policies on risk management pursuant to the Group’s strategic objectives, monitoring 
and  control  of  operational  and  financial  performance,  and  approval  of  budgets  and  major  capital  expenditures,  major 
investments,  material  acquisitions  and  disposals  of  assets,  corporate  or  financial  restructuring,  significant  operational, 
financial and management matters.

The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business of the Group to the management of the principal division 
under the leadership and supervision of the Chief Executive Officer, who will implement and report to the Board on the 
adoption of the Company’s strategies, policies and objectives by the principal division of the Group.

The Board also delegates certain specific responsibilities to nine committees (Executive Committee, Audit Committee, 
Remuneration  Committee,  Nomination  Committee,  Risk  Committee,  Compliance  Committee,  Finance  Committee, 
Share Committee and Inside Information Committee). The composition and functions of each committee are described 
below.  These  committees  have  specific  functions  and  authority  to  examine  issues  and  report  to  the  Board  with  their 
recommendations (if appropriate). The final decision rests with the Board, unless otherwise provided for in the terms of 
reference of the relevant committees.

The  Company  Secretary  provides  the  Directors  with  updates  on  developments  regarding  the  Listing  Rules  and  other 
applicable  regulatory  requirements.  Any  Director  may  request  the  Company  Secretary  to  organise  independent 
professional  advice  at  the  expense  of  the  Company  to  assist  the  Directors  to  effectively  discharge  their  duties  to  the 
Company. No such independent professional advice was requested by any Director in year 2017.

3.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Mr. Tung Chee Chen is the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company with the respective roles set out 
in writing.

a.  The  primary  role  of  the  Chairman  is  to  provide  leadership  to  the  Board  and  to  ensure  that  the  Board  functions 

effectively in the discharge of its responsibilities. His duties include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

ensure that Directors are briefed and have received timely, accurate, complete and clear information on issues 
to be discussed at Board meetings;

ensure  that  the  Board  works  effectively  and  performs  its  responsibilities,  and  that  all  key  and  appropriate 
issues  are  discussed  in  a  timely  manner  and  that  good  corporate  governance  practices  and  procedures  are 
established, implemented and maintained;

approve  the  agenda  drawn  up  by  the  Company  Secretary  for  each  Board  meeting  taking  into  account  any 
matter proposed by other Directors for inclusion in the agenda;

promote a culture of openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors 
(including  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors)  in  particular  and  ensuring  constructive  relations  between 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors; and encourage Directors with different views to voice their concerns, 
allow sufficient time for discussion of issues and ensure that Board decisions fairly reflect Board consensus;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

5959

Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

hold  meetings  at  least  annually  with  the  Non-Executive  Directors  (including  Independent  Non-Executive 
Directors) without the presence of the other Executive Directors;

ensure effective communication with shareholders and that their views are communicated to the Board; and 
to

attend  the  annual  general  meetings  and  invite  the  chairmen  of  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration 
Committee, the Nomination Committee and the other Board committees, or in the absence of the chairman 
of the respective Board committees, other members of the related Board committees to be available to answer 
questions at the annual general meetings.

In case of an equality of votes at any Board meeting, the Chairman shall be entitled to a second or casting vote.

b.  The primary role of the Chief Executive Officer is to be responsible for the day-to-day management and operation 

of the Company and Group business. His duties include to:

– 

provide leadership and supervise the effective management of the principal division of the Group;

–  monitor and control the operational and financial performance of the principal division of the Group;

– 

– 

– 

implement and report to the Board on the adoption of the Company’s strategies, policies and objectives by the 
principal division of the Group;

provide  information  to  the  Board  (as  necessary)  to  enable  the  Board  to  monitor  the  performance  of 
management and operation of the principal division of the Group; and to

set  up  programmes  for  management  development  and  succession  planning  for  the  principal  division  of  the 
Group.

4.  Board Meetings

Regular Board meetings are scheduled one year in advance to maximise the attendance of Directors. The Board meets at 
least four times each year and has a formal schedule of matters referred to it for consideration and decision. Additional 
meetings may be convened as and when necessary. Notice of at least fourteen days is served for regular Board meetings 
and reasonable notice is given for all other Board meetings. Directors are consulted and provided with an opportunity 
to include matters to the agenda for discussion at the Board meetings. The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in 
preparing the agenda for each Board meeting and to ensure that applicable rules and regulations regarding the meetings 
are observed. The final agenda together with the Board papers are distributed to the Directors at least three days before 
the Board meetings.

If a Director (who may also be a substantial shareholder of the Company) has a conflict of interest in any matter to be 
considered by the Board, the Company Secretary shall ensure that such matter is dealt with by a physical Board meeting 
rather than a written resolution. If considered appropriate, the Board meeting shall be attended by Independent Non-
Executive Directors who have no material interests in the matter. The affected Director shall abstain from voting on any 
such resolution in which they or any of their associates have a material interest and shall not be counted in the quorum 
present at that Board meeting.

The Company Secretary shall ensure that the procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed. Copies of all 
signed minutes of the Board are sent to the Directors for their records.

5.  Professional Development

In addition to Directors’ attendance at meetings and review of papers and circulars sent by the Company, the Directors 
have participated in continuous professional development programme to develop and refresh their knowledge and skills 
to help ensure that their contribution to the Board remains informed and relevant.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

60

Corporate Governance Report

The programme for continuous professional development of Directors takes various forms including:

• 

the  Company  briefing  Directors  on  important  issues  which  have  a  material  impact  on  the  Company’s  business, 
financial  and  operational  matters  including  major  investments,  corporate  governance  practices  and  funding 
strategy;

•  Directors meeting senior management of the Group on issues specific to the Group’s business;

•  Directors reading materials and updates on the regulatory changes followed by briefings by the Company Secretary 

of the Company, if requested; and

•  Directors  attending  external  seminars  on  business,  financial,  governance,  regulatory  and  other  issues  relevant  to 

the Group’s activities.

Below is the record of participation in continuous professional development programme by the current Directors of the 
Company  in  year  2017  relevant  to  the  directors’  duties  and  responsibilities,  regulatory  updates  and  business,  financial 
and operational matters of the Group.

Executive Directors
Mr. Tung Chee Chen
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan

Non-Executive Director
Professor Roger King

Independent Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Simon Murray
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard
Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward
Mr. Kwok King Man Clement

Reading materials

Attending external 
seminars/briefings

✓
✓
✓

✓

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓

✓

✓
✓
✓

Note: Ms. Lammy Lee, the Company Secretary of the Company, undertook no less than fifteen hours of professional training in year 2017 to 

update her skills and knowledge.

6.  Supply of and Access to Information

All  Directors  have  access  to  the  Board’s  and  the  Committees’  papers  and  other  materials  either  from  the  Company 
Secretary or the Chairman so that they are able to make informed decisions on matters placed before them.

7.  Nomination of Directors

The  Nomination  Committee  was  established  in  2012.  The  Committee  reviews  the  structure,  size  and  composition 
(including  the  skills,  knowledge,  experience  and  from  diversity  perspective)  of  the  Board  regularly  and  makes 
recommendation  to  the  Board.  The  Company  follows  a  formal,  considered  and  transparent  procedure  for  the 
appointment  of  new  Directors  to  the  Board.  The  appointment  of  a  new  Director  is  a  collective  decision  of  the  Board, 
taking  into  consideration  the  expertise,  experience,  integrity  and  commitment  of  that  appointee  to  the  principal 
division, the Company and the Group.

Each  Director  shall,  after  his  appointment  and  semi-annually  thereafter,  disclose  to  the  Board  the  number  and  nature 
of  offices  held  by  such  Director  in  other  public  companies  and  organisations  and  any  other  significant  commitments, 
together with the identity of the public companies and organisations and an indication of time involved.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

6161

Corporate Governance Report

At  the  annual  general  meeting  of  the  Company  held  on  27th  April  2017  (the  “2016  AGM”),  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung 
Andrew, Mr. Simon Murray and Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah retired and were re-elected as Directors of the Company.

8.  Board Committees

In  addition  to  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee  and  the  Nomination  Committee  established  in 
compliance with the Listing Rules, the other committees comprise of the Executive Committee, the Finance Committee, 
the  Share  Committee,  the  Compliance  Committee,  the  Inside  Information  Committee  and  the  Risk  Committee. 
Each  committee  has  its  own  well  defined  scope  of  duties  and  terms  of  reference.  The  terms  of  reference  of  the  Audit 
Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee are available on the Company’s website and 
the HKEXnews website. The Company Secretary shall also make available the terms of reference of all the committees to 
any shareholder upon receipt of a written request from such shareholder. The members of a committee are empowered 
to  make  decisions  on  matters  within  the  terms  of  reference  of  such  committee.  Copies  of  all  signed  minutes  of  the 
committees are sent to the members of the respective committees and the Directors of the Company for their records.

a.  Executive Committee

The Executive Committee was established in 1996. All its members are Executive Directors. It currently comprised 
of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  (chairman  of  the  Executive  Committee),  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew  and  Mr.  Tung 
Lieh Sing Alan, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of the Executive Committee.

The Executive Committee operates as an executive management committee under the direct authority of the Board. 
Its primary duties include to:

– 

formulate strategies and policies and to set corporate and management targets and operational initiatives and 
policies on risk management for the principal division of the Group and plans and operational directions for 
the Group;

–  monitor,  control  and  manage  operational  and  financial  performance  and  business  affairs  of  the  principal 

division of the Group;

– 

– 

– 

– 

review,  discuss  and  approve  (if  appropriate)  (i)  press  announcements,  circulars  and  other  documents 
(including  inside  information  and  financial  information)  required  to  be  disclosed  pursuant  to  the  Listing 
Rules,  regulatory  or  statutory  requirements;  (ii)  submissions  from  the  Compliance  Committee,  the  Finance 
Committee and the Share Committee and, if appropriate, to recommend to the Board for consideration and 
approval;

approve capital expenditure for a specified amount;

liaise  and  consult  with,  advise  and  make  recommendations  to  its  subsidiaries  and  make  such  decisions  with 
regard thereto as the Executive Committee shall in its absolute discretion think fit, and refer such matters as it 
thinks fit to the Board of the Company for consideration, approval and/or ratification, if necessary; and to

report to the Board on its decisions, and any matter in respect of which it considers that action is needed, and 
its recommendations as to the steps to be taken.

b.  Audit Committee

The  Audit  Committee  was  established  in  1992.  All  its  members  are  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors.  It 
currently comprised of Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard (chairman of the Audit Committee), Mr. Simon Murray, 
Mr.  Cheng  Wai  Sun  Edward,  Mr.  Kwok  King  Man  Clement  and  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  with  Mr.  Fung  Yee 
Chung  Vincent,  the  Head  of  Internal  Audit  as  the  secretary  of  the  Audit  Committee,  and  Ms.  Lammy  Lee  as  the 
assistant secretary of the Audit Committee.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

62

Corporate Governance Report

The  Audit  Committee  is  delegated  by  the  Board  with  the  responsibility  to  provide  an  independent  review  and 
supervision  of  financial  reporting  and  to  ensure  the  effectiveness  of  the  Group’s  risk  management  and  internal 
control  systems  and  the  adequacy  of  the  external  and  internal  audit.  To  perform  its  duties,  the  Audit  Committee 
is  provided  with  sufficient  resources  and  is  supported  by  the  Internal  Audit  Department  to  examine  all  matters 
relating to the Group’s adopted accounting principles and practices and to review all material financial, operational 
and compliance controls. The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are posted on the Company’s website.

The primary duties of the Audit Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

recommend  to  the  Board  on  the  appointment,  re-appointment  and  removal  of  the  external  auditor,  and  to 
approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor, and any question of its resignation 
or dismissal;

act as the key representative body overseeing the Company’s relation with the external auditor;

seek from the external auditor, on an annual basis, information about policies and processes for maintaining 
independence  and  monitoring  compliance  with  relevant  requirements,  including  provision  of  non-audit 
services and requirements regarding rotation of audit partners and staff;

discuss  with  the  external  auditor  any  recommendation  arising  from  the  audit,  and  to  review  the  external 
auditor’s  management  letter,  any  material  queries  raised  by  the  external  auditor  to  management  about 
accounting records, financial statements or systems of control and management’s response, and to ensure that 
the Board will provide timely response to the issues raised in the external auditor’s management letter;

establish  and  review  from  time  to  time  the  procedure  to  review  and  monitor  the  external  auditor’s 
independence  and  objectivity,  and  the  effectiveness  of  the  audit  process  in  accordance  with  the  applicable 
standards and the scope of the external auditor, and to discuss and understand the factors considered by the 
external auditor in determining the nature and scope of the audit and reporting obligations before the audit 
commences;

establish and review from time to time the policy relating to hiring of employees or former employees of the 
external auditor and monitor the application of such policy; and to consider whether as a result of such hiring 
there has been any impairment of the auditor’s judgment or independence in respect of the audit;

establish and review from time to time the policy on engaging external auditor to supply non-audit services 
and  to  review  such  services  do  not  impair  the  external  auditor’s  independence  or  objectivity  in  relation  to 
non-audit  services  including  whether  the  skills  and  experience  of  the  external  auditor  make  it  a  suitable 
supplier  of  non-audit  services;  whether  there  are  safeguards  in  place  to  ensure  that  there  is  no  threat  to  the 
objectivity  and  independence  of  the  audit  because  the  external  auditor  provides  non-audit  services;  and 
the  nature  of  non-audit  services,  the  related  fee  levels  and  fee  levels  individually  and  in  total  relative  to  the 
external auditor;

– 

review the Group’s financial and accounting policies and practices;

–  monitor  the  integrity  of  the  Company’s  financial  statements,  annual,  quarterly  (if  prepared  for  publication) 
and interim financial reports and to review any significant financial reporting judgments contained in them, 
with particular focus on changes in accounting policies and practices, major judgmental areas, any significant 
audit adjustments, the going concern assumption and any qualifications, compliance with any applicable legal 
requirements and accounting standards, and compliance with the requirements of the Listing Rules and other 
legal requirements in relation to financial reporting;

– 

consider  any  significant  or  unusual  items  that  are,  or  may  need  to  be,  reflected  in  the  report  and  financial 
statements  and  to  give  due  consideration  to  any  matter  that  has  been  raised  by  the  Financial  Compliance 
Officer  of  the  Company,  the  external  auditor,  the  Head  of  Internal  Audit  or  the  staff  responsible  for  the 
accounting and financial reporting function;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

6363

Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review  with  the  Group’s  management,  the  external  auditor  and  the  internal  auditor,  the  adequacy  of  the 
Group’s  policies  and  procedures  regarding  internal  control  system  (including  financial,  operational  and 
compliance  controls)  to  ensure  that  such  system  is  effective  with  audit  trails  to  protect  the  accuracy  and 
integrity  of  financial  data  and  to  pursue  relevant  enquiries  into  matters  having,  or  likely  to  have,  a  material 
effect on the business and financial conditions of the Group. The result of the review is to be reported in the 
Corporate Governance Report of the Company, including a Directors’ statement that they have conducted a 
review of its internal control system;

provide  an  independent  review  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  risk  management  system  including  the  risk 
management framework, policies and processes;

discuss  with  the  management  the  scope  and  quality  of  the  risk  management  and  internal  control  systems 
and  to  ensure  that  management  has  performed  its  duty  to  have  effective  systems  including  the  adequacy  of 
resources, staff qualifications and experience, training programmes and budget and experience of staff of the 
accounting, internal audit and financial reporting functions;

review findings of internal investigation and management’s response of any suspected frauds or irregularities 
or failures of risk management and internal controls or infringements of laws, rules and regulations;

review the scope and effectiveness of the internal audit functions and to review the results of the internal audit 
functions  regularly  with  the  internal  auditor  matters  including  planning  of  the  Audit  Committee  meetings 
and, if required by the internal auditor, the internal audit programme; and to ensure co-ordination between 
the  internal  and  external  auditors  and  that  the  internal  audit  function  is  adequately  resourced  and  has 
appropriate standing within the Company and to review and monitor its effectiveness;

review  the  effectiveness  and  monitor  the  use  of  the  whistleblowing  policy  and  procedures  for  employees  to 
raise  concerns,  in  confidence,  to  the  Audit  Committee  about  improprieties  in  financial  reporting,  internal 
control  and  other  matters;  and  to  ensure  that  proper  arrangements  are  in  place  for  fair  and  independent 
investigation of these improprieties and for appropriate follow-up action;

report to the Board on the matters raised in the SEHK Code; and to

report to the Board, identifying and making recommendations on any matter where action or improvement is 
needed and to consider other topics identified and referred to the Audit Committee by the Board.

Under  the  Group’s  whistleblowing  policy,  employees  may  report  any  concern  regarding  accounting,  internal 
accounting controls and auditing matters to the Audit Committee without fear of dismissal or retaliation, in order 
to  ensure  that  the  Group  complies  with  all  the  applicable  laws  and  regulations,  accounting  standards,  accounting 
controls and audit practices. The Audit Committee will review each complaint and decide on how the investigation 
should be conducted. In year 2017, the Audit Committee received no complaint from employees.

The Audit Committee held two meetings during the year ended 31st December 2017. The following is a summary 
of work performed by the Audit Committee during the year 2017:

(i) 

reviewed and discussed the annual financial statements for 2016 and the interim financial statements for 2017 
with the external auditor and management of the Company, with recommendations to the Board for approval;

(ii)  reviewed the significant audit and accounting issues arising from the external auditor’s statutory audit of the 

2016 annual financial statements and issues arising from the review of the 2017 interim financial statements;

(iii)  reviewed the impact of the new and revised accounting standards on the Company;

(iv)  reviewed the external auditor’s audit strategy and approach;

(v)  reviewed the non-audit services provided by the external auditor in 2016;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

64

Corporate Governance Report

(vi)  met with the external auditor without the presence of the management to discuss issues from the audits and 

any other matters the external auditor might raise;

(vii)  reviewed the Internal Audit Department’s audit objectives and approval of the annual internal audit plan;

(viii) reviewed  the  findings  and  recommendations  of  the  Internal  Audit  Department  on  the  audits  carried  out  on 

the principal activities of the Group during the year 2016;

(ix)  reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems;

(x)  reviewed  the  relevant  sections  in  the  Corporate  Governance  Report  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2016 

concerning the Audit Committee;

(xi)  reviewed the adequacy of the resources, staff qualifications and experience, training programmes and budget 

and experience of staff of the Company’s accounting, internal audit and financial reporting functions;

(xii) reviewed the continuing connected transactions and their annual caps;

(xiii) reviewed the continuous implementation of the whistleblowing policy; and

(xiv) reviewed and refined the terms of reference of the Audit Committee.

The minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are prepared by the secretary of the Audit Committee with details of 
all matters considered by the attendees and of decisions reached, including any concern raised by the attendees and 
dissenting views expressed. The final version of the minutes is sent to the attendees for their records. The minutes 
are open for inspection by the Committee members and the Board members.

c.  Remuneration Committee

The Remuneration Committee was established in 2005. A majority of its members are Independent Non-Executive 
Directors.  It  currently  comprised  of  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah  (chairman  of  the  Remuneration  Committee), 
Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  and  Professor  Wong  Yue  Chim  Richard,  with  Ms.  Lammy  Lee  as  the  secretary  of  the 
Remuneration Committee.

The primary duties of the Remuneration Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review  and  recommend  to  the  Board  on  the  Company’s  policy  and  structure  of  the  remuneration  of  the 
Directors  of  the  Company,  senior  management  and  employees  of  the  Group  including  performance-based 
bonus  scheme  on  the  basis  that  they  are  fairly  but  responsibly  rewarded  for  their  individual  contribution  to 
the overall performance of the Company;

establish and review a formal and transparent procedure for developing remuneration policy;

(i)  review  and  approve  the  management’s  remuneration  proposals  with  reference  to  the  Board’s  corporate 
goals  and  objectives;  and  determine  with  delegated  responsibilities  the  remuneration  packages  of  individual 
Executive  Directors  of  the  Company  and  senior  management;  and  (ii)  recommend  to  the  Board  on  the 
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

consult the Chairman of the Board and/or Chief Executive Officer of the Company about their remuneration 
proposals for the other Executive Directors of the Company and senior management;

review and approve compensation payable to the Executive Directors of the Company and senior management 
for any loss or termination of office or appointment to ensure that it is consistent with contractual terms and 
is otherwise fair and not excessive;

review and approve compensation arrangements relating to dismissal or removal of Directors for misconduct 
to ensure that they are consistent with contractual terms and are otherwise reasonable and appropriate;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

6565

Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

ensure  that  no  Director  or  any  of  his  associates  or  senior  management  is  involved  in  deciding  his  own 
remuneration; and to

advise the Board any matter relating to the remuneration or reward of the Executive Directors of the Company 
or senior management or employees of the Group.

The  Remuneration  Committee  held  five  meetings  during  the  year  ended  31st  December  2017.  The  works 
performed by the Remuneration Committee during the year 2017 include:

(i) 

reviewed the Company’s policy and remuneration structure for the Directors of the Company, and the senior 
management and employees of the Group, and ensured compliance of disclosure with the Listing Rules and in 
line with best practices;

(ii)  reviewed the procedure for developing remuneration policy;

(iii)  reviewed the consultant’s report covering (i) current remuneration policies and practices including incentive 
scheme;  (ii)  current  bonus  policy  to  ensure  that  it  would  continue  to  motivate  and  reward  staff;  (iii) 
remuneration for senior management and technical employees of the Group that is competitive with external 
market; and (iv) remuneration of Directors that is in line with prevailing market level, and recommended to 
the Board the recommended solutions suggested in the consultant’s report;

(iv)  reviewed  the  discretionary  management  bonus  of  the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Company,  and  the  senior 

management and employees of the Group for the year 2016;

(v)  reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  or  determined  with  delegated  responsibilities,  as  the  case  may  be, 
in accordance with the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, the remuneration packages of the 
Directors of the Company, and the senior management of the Group for the year 2017; and

(vi)  reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  the  committee  member’s  fees  for  the  Independent  Non-Executive 

Directors of the Company.

No Director was involved in determining his own remuneration.

d.  Nomination Committee

The  Nomination  Committee  was  established  in  2012.  A  majority  of  its  members  are  Independent  Non-Executive 
Directors.  It  currently  comprised  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  (chairman  of  the  Nomination  Committee),  Mr.  Chow 
Philip Yiu Wah and Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of the Nomination 
Committee.

The primary duties of the Nomination Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

review and make recommendation to the Board on the Company’s policy for nomination of Directors;

establish  and  review  a  formal,  considered  and  transparent  procedures  for  the  appointment  of  new  directors 
and have plans in place for orderly succession for appointments;

review  and  report  annually  on  implementation  of  the  board  diversity  policy  of  the  Company  (the  “Board 
Diversity Policy”), and progress (if relevant);

review  the  structure,  size  and  composition  (including  the  skills,  knowledge,  experience  and  from  diversity 
perspective)  of  the  Board  at  least  annually  and  recommend  on  any  proposed  change  to  the  Board  to 
complement the Company’s corporate strategy;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

66

Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

identify,  nominate  and  recommend  to  the  Board  suitably  qualified  candidate,  based  on  meritocracy  and  the 
Board  Diversity  Policy  appropriate  for  the  Group’s  business  and  specific  needs,  to  become  a  director  of  the 
Company either to fill a casual vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board;

recommend  to  the  Board  on  the  appointment  or  re-appointment/re-election  of  Directors  and  succession 
planning for Directors to maintain a balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of perspectives of 
the Board;

assess and report to the Board the qualifications of any person proposed by a shareholder of the Company for 
election as a director of the Company to ensure compliance with the nomination policy of the Company and 
the requirements as provided in the Listing Rules are satisfied;

assess the independence of Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

regularly  review  and  report  to  the  Board  the  contribution  required  from  a  Director  of  the  Company  to 
perform his responsibilities and whether he is spending sufficient time performing them; and to

assess performance of the Executive Directors and conduct a regular evaluation of the Board’s performance by 
a member of the Nomination Committee, who is an Independent Non-Executive Director, and report results 
of the evaluation to the Board.

The Nomination Committee held one meeting during the year ended 31st December 2017. The works performed 
by the Nomination Committee during the year 2017 include:

(i) 

reviewed the Company’s policy for nomination of Directors;

(ii)  reviewed procedures for appointment of new Directors and plans for orderly succession;

(iii)  reviewed the implementation of the Board Diversity Policy of the Company;

(iv)  reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board of the Company;

(v)  recommended re-election of the retiring directors at the annual general meeting of the Company held on 27th 

April 2017;

(vi)  assessed independence of the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

(vii)  reviewed the contribution of the Directors of the Company for the year 2016; and

(viii) evaluated performance of the Board and assessed performance of the Executive Directors of the Company by 
a member of the Nomination Committee who is an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company in 
accordance with the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee.

The Board Diversity Policy is summarised as follows:

– 

the  Company  ensures  that  its  Board  has  the  appropriate  balance  of  skills,  experience  and  diversity  of 
perspective of the Board requires to support the execution of its business strategy and in order for the Board 
to be effective;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

6767

Corporate Governance Report

– 

selection of candidates will be based on a range of perspectives, including but not limited to age, culture and 
educational background, ethnicity, industry experience, skills, knowledge and length of service. The Board’s 
appointment  should  be  based  on  meritocracy  and  diversity  of  perspectives  appropriate  for  the  Group’s 
business and specific needs and the contribution that the selected candidates will bring to the Board; and

– 

the  Nomination  Committee  will  take  into  consideration  of  the  Board  Diversity  Policy  in  identifying  and 
nominating suitably qualified candidates to become members of the Board.

e.  Risk Committee

The  Risk  Committee  was  established  in  2015  and  currently  comprised  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  (chairman  of  the 
Risk Committee), Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew, Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan, Professor Roger King and Mr. Chow 
Philip Yiu Wah, with Mr. Mok Yun Lee Paul as the secretary of the Risk Committee.

The primary duties of the Risk Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

establish  risk  appetite,  risk  management  strategy,  and  a  strong  and  independent  internal  control  and  review 
systems;

align strategic direction and business objective of the Group with risk appetite;

oversight on adequacy of the Group’s risk management policies, process and system. In pursuing the Group’s 
strategic direction and business objective, aims to optimise risk and return;

identify, assess and manage principal risks to pursue the Group’s strategic and business objective;

provide direction on the importance of risk management and risk management culture;

formulate, implement and review environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) strategies of the Group; and 
to

identify,  assess  and  manage  ESG-related  risks  and  ensure  appropriate  and  effective  ESG  risk  management 
systems are in place.

The Risk Committee held two meetings and passed resolutions by way of written resolution during the year ended 
31st December 2017. The works performed by the Risk Committee during the year 2017 include:

(i) 

reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  the  Group’s  risk  appetite,  risk  management  strategies,  risk 
management policies, process and system in pursuit of the Group’s strategic direction and business objectives;

(ii) 

identified, reviewed, assessed and managed principal risks of the Group to pursue the Group’s strategic and 
business objectives;

(iii)  reviewed  and  reported  to  the  Board  the  Company’s  compliance  with  the  SEHK  Code  in  relation  to  the  risk 

management; and

(iv)  reviewed and reported to the Board the Company’s compliance with the Listing Rules in relation to the ESG 

related compliance.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

68

Corporate Governance Report

f.  Compliance Committee

The  Compliance  Committee  was  established  in  2004  and  currently  comprised  of  Ms.  Lammy  Lee  (chairperson 
of  the  Compliance  Committee),  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan,  Mr.  Fung  Yee  Chung  Vincent,  Mr.  Michael  Fitzgerald 
and Mr. Lam Tuen Pei Pius. The Board has delegated the responsibility for monitoring the corporate governance 
compliance to the Compliance Committee.

The primary duties of the Compliance Committee include to:

– 

review, monitor and provide administrative support on the compliance control of the Group and compliance 
of the following corporate governance functions of the Company:

(a)  on  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  corporate  governance  and  make  recommendations  to  the 

Board;

(b)  on  the  training  and  continuous  professional  development  of  Directors  and  senior  management  of  the 

Group;

(c)  on the Company’s policies and practices on compliance with legal and regulatory requirements;

(d)  on the development of the code of conduct and compliance manuals (if any) applicable to employees of 

the Group and Directors of the Company;

(e)  on the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and the SEHK Code;

(f) 

to report the above items (a) to (e) to the Board regularly; and

– 

– 

(g) 

to  prepare  (i)  the  Corporate  Governance  Report  covering  all  mandatory  disclosure  requirements  as  set 
out in the Listing Rules; and/or (ii) information required to be disclosed by the Compliance Committee 
in  the  Company’s  results  announcements,  the  annual  reports,  the  interim  reports  and  any  other 
documents, pursuant to the Listing Rules;

review and report to the Board regularly the shareholders’ communication policy to ensure its effectiveness; 
and to

ensure the Company is in compliance with the Listing Rules including disclosure and compliance obligations 
for  matters  including  notifiable  transactions,  connected  transactions,  continuing  connected  transactions, 
advance  to  an  entity,  financial  assistance  and  guarantees  to  affiliated  companies  of  the  Company,  loan 
agreements  with  covenants  relating  to  specific  performance  of  the  controlling  shareholder  of  the  Company, 
breach of a loan agreement by the Company, disclosure of financial information pursuant to Appendix 16 to 
the Listing Rules, and general obligations of disclosure under rule 13.09 of the Listing Rules.

The Compliance Committee held three meetings during the year ended 31st December 2017. The works performed 
by the Compliance Committee during the year 2017 include:

(i) 

reviewed  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  corporate  governance,  risk  management,  and  made 
recommendations to the Board;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

6969

Corporate Governance Report

(ii)  reviewed and recommended to the Board the revisions to the Company’s CG Code to align with the up-to-

date SEHK Code;

(iii)  reviewed and monitored the training and continuous professional development of Directors of the Company;

(iv)  reviewed  and  monitored  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  compliance  with  legal  and  regulatory 

requirements, particularly on legal, financial and accounting, internal control and audit, risk management and 

ESG related compliance;

(v)  reviewed and monitored the code of conduct and compliance manuals (if any) applicable to employees of the 

Group and Directors of the Company;

(vi)  reviewed the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and the SEHK Code and the disclosure requirements 

in the Corporate Governance Report;

(vii)  reviewed the Company’s compliance with the disclosure requirements in the Sustainability Report;

(viii) reviewed and reported to the Board on the effectiveness of the shareholders’ communication policy;

(ix)  reviewed and reported to the Board on the notifiable transactions, continuing connected transactions and the 

significant contracts of the Group; and

(x)  reviewed the role of the Compliance Committee in light of the possible changes brought to the Group by the 

pre-conditional voluntary general offer as disclosed in the joint announcement dated 7th July 2017.

g.  Finance Committee

The Finance Committee was established in 1993 and currently comprised of Professor Roger King and Mr. Chow 

Philip Yiu Wah, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of the Finance Committee.

The primary duties of the Finance Committee include to:

– 

assist in the financial requirements of the Group including financing, refinancing, leasing, purchase and sale 

of vessels, properties and equipment and the financing of the business operations of the Group;

– 

report to the Board on its decisions, and any matter in respect of which it considers that action is needed, and 

its recommendation as to the steps to be taken; and to

– 

discuss  and  review  the  disclosure  obligations  of  the  Company  on  financial,  accounting  or  related  issues 

on  compliance  with  the  Listing  Rules  and  refer  transactions  with  their  recommendations  to  the  Executive 

Committee of the Company for its endorsement and/or approval.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

70

Corporate Governance Report

h.  Share Committee

The  Share  Committee  was  established  in  1992  and  currently  comprised  of  Professor  Roger  King  and  Mr.  Chow 
Philip Yiu Wah, with Ms. Lammy Lee as the secretary of the Share Committee.

The primary duties of the Share Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

deal  with  and  grant  approval  on  the  removal  of  the  ordinary  shares  of  the  Company  from  the  Principal 
Register in Bermuda to the Branch Register in Hong Kong or vice versa;

deal  with  share  transactions  including,  but  not  limited  to  share  repurchases,  issue  of  bonus  shares,  scrip 
dividend schemes, top up placings, share subscriptions and placement of the Company’s shares;

give  authorisation  to  the  Company’s  Principal  Registrar  and  Branch  Registrar  to  issue  share  certificates  to 
shareholders who have reported loss of share certificates and in connection with the above share transactions; 
and to

discuss and review the disclosure obligations of the Company on share transactions and compliance with the 
Listing Rules.

i. 

Inside Information Committee

The  Inside  Information  Committee  was  established  in  2013  and  currently  comprised  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen 
(chairman  of  the  Inside  Information  Committee),  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew,  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan  and 
Ms. Lammy Lee.

The primary duties of the Inside Information Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

ensure proper systems and control are in place to collect, review and verify potential inside information;

identify, assess and escalate potential inside information to the attention of the Board; report to the Board on 
the  recommendation  of  the  Inside  Information  Committee,  and  any  matter  in  respect  of  which  it  considers 
that  action  is  needed,  and  its  recommendation  as  to  the  actions  to  be  taken  and  what  information  to  be 
disclosed;

vet and clear announcements or other public disclosures; and to

supervise the Company’s compliance with continuing disclosure obligations.

j. 

Independent Board Committee

On  7th  July  2017,  it  was  jointly  announced  by  the  Company,  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  Co.,  Ltd.  (“COSCO 
SHIPPING  Holdings”),  and  Shanghai  International  Port  (Group)  Co.,  Ltd  (“SIPG”)  that  COSCO  SHIPPING 
Holdings  and  SIPG  had  made  a  pre-conditional  voluntary  general  offer  (“Offer”)  to  all  shareholders  of  the 
Company  to  acquire  all  of  the  issued  shares  of  the  Company  at  an  offer  price  of  HK$78.67  per  share  of  the 
Company in cash. An Independent Board Committee was established for the purpose of making recommendation 
to  the  shareholders  of  the  Company  as  to  whether  the  Offer  is  fair  and  reasonable  and  as  to  acceptance.  The 
Independent  Board  Committee  currently  comprised  of  Mr.  Simon  Murray,  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  Professor 
Wong Yue Chim Richard, Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward and Mr. Kowk King Man Clement.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

7171

Corporate Governance Report

9.  Attendance Records of Board Meetings, Board Committees Meetings and General Meetings

The attendance records of each Director of the Board Committees of the Company at the relevant meetings held in year 
2017 are as follows:

No. of meetings held during the year

Executive Directors
Mr. Tung Chee Chen  

(Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan  

(Chief Financial Officer)

Non-Executive Director
Professor Roger King

Independent Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Simon Murray
Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard
Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward
Mr. Kwok King Man Clement

Board

6

6/6

6/6
6/6

6/6

4/6
6/6
6/6
5/6
4/6

Actual Attendance/Number of Meetings a Director is entitled to attend

Executive 
Committee

Audit 
Committee

Remuneration 
Committee

Nomination 
Committee

Risk 
Committee

Compliance 
Committee

Finance 
Committee

Share 
Committee

Inside 
Information 
Committee

2016 AGM

10

10/10

10/10
10/10

–

–
–
–
–
–

2

–

–
–

–

1/2
2/2
2/2
1/2
2/2

5

5/5

–
–

–

–
5/5
5/5
–
–

1

1/1

–
–

–

–
1/1
1/1
–
–

2

2/2

2/2
1/2

2/2

–
2/2
–
–
–

3

–

–
3/3

–

–
–
–
–
–

1

–

–
–

1/1

–
1/1
–
–
–

1

–

–
–

1/1

–
1/1
–
–
–

0

0

0
0

–

–
–
–
–
–

1

1/1

1/1
1/1

1/1

0/1
1/1
1/1
1/1
0/1

Average attendance rate

90.74%

100%

80%

100%

100%

90%

100%

100%

100%

N/A

77.78%

10.  Securities Transactions by Directors

The  Company  has  adopted  its  own  code  of  conduct  regarding  securities  transactions  by  Directors  on  terms  no  less 
exacting than the required standard set out in the Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers 
(the “Model Code”) contained in Appendix 10 to the Listing Rules.

All  Directors  have  confirmed,  following  specific  enquiry  by  the  Company,  that  they  have  fully  complied  with  the 
required  standards  set  out  in  both  the  Company’s  own  code  and  the  Model  Code  for  the  year  ended  31st  December 
2017.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

72

Corporate Governance Report

11.  Share Interests of Directors and Senior Management

a.  Directors

Directors’ interests in the shares of the Company are set out on pages 83 and 84 of this annual report.

b.  Senior Management

As at 31st December 2017, the number of shares of the Company held by the senior management of the Group are 
as follows:

Name

Mr. Michael Fitzgerald

Mr. Raymond Fung

Mr. Teddy Fung

Ms. Lammy Lee

Mr. Stephen Ng

Mr. Steve Siu

Mr. Erxin Yao

Mr. Kenny Ye

Number of shares held

7,500

–

–

–

–

–

5,000

100,000

12.  Emoluments of Directors and Senior Management (Note)

a.  Emoluments of Directors

The emoluments of the Directors of the Company for the year ended 31st December 2017 are set out on page 125 
of this annual report.

b.  Emoluments of Senior Management

The emoluments of the senior management of the Group for the year ended 31st December 2017 are set out below:

Emolument bands (US$)

256,401 – 320,500

320,501 – 384,600

384,601 – 448,700

448,701 – 512,800

512,801 – 576,900

Total

Number of individuals 
2017

2

1

3

1

1

8

Note: biographical details of senior management are set out on pages 52 and 53 of this annual report.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

7373

Corporate Governance Report

B.  ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT

1.  External Auditor

PricewaterhouseCoopers  was  re-appointed  as  the  Company’s  external  auditor  by  shareholders  at  the  2016  AGM  until 
the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.

The Company has established a policy on appointment of external auditor in providing non-audit services, setting out 
the principles by which an external auditor may be appointed to provide non-audit services, with a view to ensuring the 
independence of the external auditor.

The fee in respect of audit and non-audit services provided by the external auditor to the Company for the year ended 
31st December 2017 is set out on page 127 note 11 to the consolidated financial statements of this annual report.

2.  Directors’ and Auditor’s Acknowledgement

All Directors acknowledged their responsibilities for preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 
31st December 2017.

PricewaterhouseCoopers,  the  external  auditor  of  the  Company,  acknowledged  the  reporting  responsibilities  in  the 
auditor’s report on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2017.

3.  Internal Controls

The  Board  is  responsible  for  establishing  and  maintaining  appropriate  and  effective  internal  control  systems  for  the 
Group,  and  through  the  Audit  Committee,  conducts  reviews  of  the  effectiveness  of  such  systems  at  least  annually, 
covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management functions. 
The process used in reviewing the effectiveness of these internal control systems includes discussion with management 
on risk areas identified by management of the Company and principal division of the Group and review of significant 
issues  arising  from  internal  and  external  audits.  The  Company’s  internal  control  systems  comprise  a  well  established 
organisational structure and comprehensive policies and standards. Procedures have been designed to safeguard assets 
against  unauthorised  use  or  disposition,  to  maintain  proper  accounting  records,  for  assurance  of  the  reliability  of 
financial  information  for  internal  use  or  publication,  and  to  ensure  compliance  with  applicable  laws  and  regulations. 
The  purpose  of  the  Company’s  internal  control  is  to  provide  reasonable,  but  not  absolute,  assurance  against  material 
misstatement or loss and to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure in operational systems and achievement of the 
Company’s objectives.

The Board has established the following measures to provide effective internal controls:

– 

– 

– 

a  distinct  organisational  structure  for  the  principal  division  with  defined  authority  responsibilities  and  control/
measures;

an  annual  budget  for  the  principal  division  allocating  resources  in  accordance  with  identified  and  prioritised 
business opportunities. The annual budget for the principal division is approved by the Board on an annual basis;

a  comprehensive  management  accounting  system  for  the  principal  division  to  provide  financial  and  operational 
performance  indicators  to  the  relevant  management,  and  financial  information  for  reporting  and  disclosure 
purposes. Actual operational results are measured against budget each month. Detailed forecasts for the year and 
long-term forecasts of profit and loss, cash flow and balance sheets are regularly reviewed and updated. Variances 
to budget are analysed and explained and appropriate action taken, if necessary;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

74

Corporate Governance Report

– 

– 

– 

systems and procedures are in place to identify, measure, manage and control risks including business, compliance, 
operational,  financial  and  information  services  risks  that  may  have  an  impact  on  the  Group  and  the  principal 
division.  Exposure  to  these  risks  is  monitored  by  the  Executive  Committee  and  the  management  of  the  principal 
division;

clearly defined procedures are in place for the control of capital and major expenditure commitments, off-balance 
sheet financial instruments and the supervision, control and review of the investment portfolio; and

the  Internal  Audit  Department  performs  independent  reviews  of  the  risks  and  controls  identified  to  provide 
reasonable  assurance  to  management  of  the  Company  and  principal  division  and  the  Audit  Committee  that 
controls have been set in place and adequately addressed.

The  internal  audit  function,  which  is  centrally  controlled,  monitors  compliance  with  policies  and  standards  as  well  as 
the  effectiveness  of  internal  control  structures  across  the  Company  and  the  Group.  To  preserve  the  independence  of 
the internal audit function, the Head of Internal Audit reports functionally to the Audit Committee whose chairman is 
an Independent Non-Executive Director who has direct access to the Board. Using a risk-based approach, the Internal 
Audit  Department  plans  its  internal  audit  schedules  annually  in  consultation  with,  but  independent  of,  management 
of  the  Company  and  the  principal  division.  The  Internal  Audit  Department  has  unrestricted  access  to  information 
that  allows  it  to  review  all  aspects  of  the  Group’s  risk  management,  control  and  governance  processes.  Independent 
reviews of different financial, business and functional operations and activities are conducted with audit resources being 
focused on high risk areas. Ad hoc reviews are also conducted on areas of concern identified by the Audit Committee 
and  management  of  the  Company  and  the  principal  division.  The  management  of  the  Company  and  the  principal 
division including the affected subsidiary are notified of the deficiencies noted for rectification, and the Internal Audit 
Department follows up with the implementation of audit recommendations.

The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board assesses the effectiveness of the internal control system including detecting 
fraud  and  other  irregularities  by  reviewing  the  Internal  Audit  Department’s  work  and  findings.  On  a  yearly  basis,  the 
Internal Audit Department summarises the major audit findings and other relevant information that have come to the 
Internal Audit Department’s attention during the course of the audits and reports to the Audit Committee.

According to the 2017 Internal Audit report, the Group’s internal control system is functioning effectively, there was no 
significant weakness found in the course of the audits carried out during the year, and there is no change in the nature 
and  extent  of  significant  risks  as  well  as  the  scope  and  quality  of  management’s  ongoing  monitoring  of  the  risks  and 
the  internal  control  system.  The  Audit  Committee  has  concluded  that  the  Group  has  maintained  sound  and  effective 
internal  controls  to  safeguard  the  Group’s  assets,  and  there  is  an  ongoing  process  in  place  for  identifying,  evaluating 
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The Board, therefore, is of the view that there are no significant 
frauds,  irregularities,  internal  control  deficiencies  or  suspected  infringement  of  laws,  rules  and  regulations  that  cause 
the Board to believe that the systems of internal control are ineffective or inadequate, and there are no significant areas 
of concern which may affect shareholders. The Board is satisfied that the Company and the Group have fully complied 
with the code provisions on internal control as set forth in the SEHK Code for the year ended 31st December 2017.

To  ensure  on-going  compliance  with  the  SEHK  Code,  the  Audit  Committee  reviewed  the  adequacy  of  staffing  of  the 
accounting, internal audit and financial reporting functions on behalf of the Board and was satisfied with the adequacy 
of resources, staff qualifications and experience, training programmes and budget of the Company’s accounting, internal 
audit and financial reporting functions.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

7575

Corporate Governance Report

The  Company  has  implemented  the  following  procedures  and  internal  controls  for  the  handling  and  dissemination  of 
inside information:

a) 

it monitors any inside information and makes appropriate announcement as required by the Listing Rules;

b) 

it conducts its affairs by reference to the “Guidelines on Disclosure of Inside Information” issued by the Securities 
and Futures Commission;

c) 

it has established procedures for handling external affairs about the Group; and

d) 

it has established guidelines to be followed by senior management and employees in dealing with confidential and 
inside information.

4.  Risk Management

The Board acknowledges that risks are inherent in our business and the market in which we operate, and we undertake 
and monitor risks in pursuit of our strategic and business objectives. Our approach is if risks are effectively managed, 
it  can  be  a  value  driver  for  competitive  advantage  and  the  exercising  of  risk  management  abilities  can  become  an 
advantage to differentiate the Group from its competitors.

The Group has built and maintained sound and effective risk management and internal control systems to safeguard the 
Group’s  assets,  but  not  absolute  assurance  against  material  misstatement  or  loss  and  to  manage  rather  than  eliminate 
risks  of  failure  in  operational  systems  and  achievement  of  the  Group’s  strategic  business  objectives.  In  the  context  of 
the  Group’s  capital  structure  and  business  models;  it  would  re-assess  the  risk  appetite  on  a  regular  basis,  taking  into 
consideration  the  Group’s  business  strategies  and  return  targets.  The  risk  strategy  of  the  Group,  adopting  a  proactive 
approach, would be determined upon analysis results for a specific risk through the risk management process; and once 
risk is identified based on the risk strategy, it will be managed so that it can be understood, minimised, transferred or 
contained, through a group-wide risk management framework.

The Risk Committee delegates to the management, the design and setting of risk management parameters, who would 
work  with  relevant  stakeholders  of  its  business  and  operation  units  to  identify  key  risk  areas  to  be  assessed  and  risk 
control measures formulated to mitigate and guide each local and regional office. The key risk management areas would 
be  regularly  reviewed  to  identify  areas  for  improvement,  from  which  where  necessary,  the  development  of  policies 
and procedures for the Group to manage and control risks that might have an impact on the Group and the principal 
division  including  potential  risks  in  critical  business  areas  that  are  both  strategic  and  operational  levels,  to  ensure 
business  continuity,  to  optimise  business  result,  and  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  relevant  rules  and  regulations. 
The Risk Committee reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems and 
internal audits are conducted as part of ongoing review on the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control 
systems. Emerging risks that may have an impact on the Group are also discussed in the Risk Committee meetings and 
shared with the Audit Committee.

The  Group’s  risk  management  organisation  structure  has  a  “top-down”  approach  on  oversight,  risk  identification  and 
assessment, and mitigation of risk at corporate level; and a “bottom-up” approach on risk identification and assessment, 
and mitigation of risk at business unit level and cross functional areas for its risk management.

Based  on  the  Group  risk  management  principles  and  culture  in  taking  justifiable  calculated  risk  in  business  decision 
after identifying the inherent risks, exploring possible mitigation and assessing all relevant costs and benefits as a result 
of the decision; and promoting a risk-intelligent culture in the organisation, in which a risk-averse, risk-seeking or risk-
neutral attitude might be adopted as and when the circumstances justified; risk management policy is set up to ensure 
common understanding of risk principles and encouraging a risk intelligent culture on a group-wide level. Our policies 
and guidelines are periodically reviewed and amended when considered necessary in line with the dynamic changes in 
our business environment and operations.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

76

Corporate Governance Report

The Group has (i) a formalised enterprise risk management (“ERM”) process, taking into consideration of the Group’s 
organisation  structure  and  nature  of  business;  and  (ii)  developed  a  risk  register  with  a  principal  risk  dashboard  that 
summarises major risks whose potential consequences are significant at group level and may trigger risk events that in 
aggregate, become significant to the Group as at a given time, and a functional risk dashboard. This provides a point-in-
time assessment of the risk profile of the Group for the Risk Committee and the Board on the nature and extent of the 
risks faced by the Group.

The  Group  has  adopted  an  activity-based  “three  lines  of  defence”  risk  governance  model  to  delegate  and  coordinate 
essential risk management and control duties in a clear and cohesive manner:

(a)  First line of defence – Functional units establish risk and control environments in the Group’s day-to-day business 
operations, and as risk owners, are responsible for risk identification, formulation of risk mitigation strategies and 
upward reporting of risk monitoring progress;

(b)  Second line of defence – The Risk Management Department monitors the risk management system and facilitates 
the  development  and  setting  of  policies  and  guidelines  and  its  effective  implementation.  It  provides  advice  and 
guidance to the first-line functional units on implementation of the risk management and internal control systems; 
and

(c)  Third line of defence – The Internal Audit Department provides independent review on the effectiveness of the risk 

management and internal control systems.

The  Group’s  ERM  process  is  underpinned  by  its  risk  culture,  which  is  aligned  to  the  overall  ethics  and  culture  of 
the  Group.  The  ERM  process  consists  of  eight  process  components:  internal  environment,  objective  setting,  risk 
identification, risk assessment, risk response, control activities, communication and monitoring; and is used to identify, 
evaluate  and  manage  the  significant  risks  to  the  Group.  The  functional  units  translate  the  risk  events  and  incorporate 
the  Group  risk  appetite  into  quantitative  tolerance  limits  to  monitor  and  manage  the  identified  material  risks  in  line 
with  the  Board’s  strategies;  before  communicating  their  recommended  mitigation  plans  to  the  Risk  Management 
Department. The Group risk register allows categorisation and prioritisation of risks, risk documentation and reporting, 
and the monitoring of the ongoing development of risks.

For the year ended 31st December 2017, following management confirmation to the Risk Committee on its scope and 
quality  of  its  ongoing  risks  monitoring  and  internal  control  systems;  and  satisfaction  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  risk 
management and internal control systems with no significant control failings or weaknesses and no significant areas of 
concern identified which might affect the shareholders of the Company, the Risk Committee has reported twice to the 
Board on their review and confirmation of its satisfaction on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and 
internal control systems, including the scope and quality of the Group’s ongoing monitoring of risks.

The  Board  confirmed  that  the  Group’s  risk  management  and  internal  control  systems  are  functioning  adequately  and 
effectively. The Board is satisfied that the Company and the Group have fully complied with the code provisions on risk 
management as set forth in the SEHK Code for the year ended 31st December 2017.

C.  COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS

The  Company  attaches  great  importance  to  communications  with  shareholders.  Extensive  information  on  the  Group’s 
activities,  business  strategies  and  developments  is  provided  in  the  Company’s  annual  reports  and  interim  reports. 
Shareholders  of  the  Company  are  encouraged  to  attend  the  annual  general  meetings  of  the  Company  which  offer  a 
valuable  forum  for  dialogue  and  interaction  with  management.  The  Chairman  of  the  Board  and  the  chairpersons  of  the 
Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee,  the  Nomination  Committee  and  other  Board  committees,  or  in  their 
absence, another member of the relevant committee, are available at the annual general meetings to answer questions from 
shareholders on the business of the Group. A separate resolution is proposed by the Chairman in respect of each issue at the 
general meetings.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

7777

Corporate Governance Report

The  Company  has  also  established  a  shareholders’  communication  policy  to  ensure  shareholders  are  provided  with  ready, 
equal and timely access to balanced and understandable information about the Company. The policy is regularly reviewed to 
ensure its effectiveness and is available on written request to the Company Secretary.

The most recent shareholders’ meeting of the Company was the 2016 AGM held at Dynasty Room, 7th Floor, The Dynasty 
Club,  South  West  Tower,  Convention  Plaza,  1  Harbour  Road,  Wanchai,  Hong  Kong  on  27th  April  2017,  at  which  the 
following ordinary resolutions were passed with the voting results as follows:

Ordinary Resolutions

1.

To consider and adopt the audited Financial Statements and the Reports of 
the Directors and the Auditor for the year ended 31st December 2016.

2(a). To re-elect Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew as Director.

2(b). To re-elect Mr. Simon Murray as Director.

2(c). To re-elect Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah as Director.

3.

4.

To authorise the Board of Directors to fix the Directors’ remuneration.

To re-appoint Messrs. PricewaterhouseCoopers as Auditor and to authorise 
the Board of Directors to fix their remuneration.

5(a). To grant a general mandate to the Directors to allot, issue and deal with the 

Company’s shares.

5(b). To grant a general mandate to the Directors to repurchase the Company’s 

shares.

5(c). To extend the general mandate to issue shares to cover the shares 

repurchased by the Company under Resolution No. 5(b).

Number of Votes (%)

For

Against

544,031,834
(100%)

531,824,047
(97.756951%)

436,972,736
(80.329070%)

442,106,524
(81.264826%)

543,673,334
(99.957529%)

532,381,947
(97.858602%)

443,502,274
(81.521383%)

543,903,334
(100%)

443,636,878
(81.546275%)

0
(0%)

12,202,787
(2.243049%)

107,005,598
(19.670930%)

101,925,310
(18.735174%)

231,000
(0.042471%)

11,649,887
(2.141398%)

100,529,560
(18.478617%)

0
(0%)

100,393,956
(18.453725%)

Since the publication of the Company’s 2010 interim report, the Company has offered to the shareholders of the Company 
the  following  options  to  choose  the  language  and  means  of  receipt  of  the  corporate  communications  of  the  Company  in 
support of environment protection and for the purpose of saving printing and mailing costs:

(1) 

to  read  the  corporate  communication  published  on  the  Company’s  website  at  http://www.ooilgroup.com  in  place  of 
receiving  printed  copies,  and  receive  an  e-mail  notification  or  a  printed  notification  letter  (as  the  case  may  be)  of  the 
publication of the corporate communication on website; or

(2) 

to  receive  either  the  printed  English  version,  the  printed  Chinese  version  or  both  the  printed  English  and  Chinese 
versions of the Company’s corporate communication.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

78

 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance Report

D.  SHAREHOLDERS’ RIGHTS

1.  Convening a special general meeting

Pursuant to the Bermuda Companies Act and the Company’s Bye-law, the shareholder(s) of the Company holding not 
less than one-tenth of the paid up capital of the Company having the right to vote at general meetings of the Company 
shall have the right, by written requisition sent to the Company’s registered office at Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, 
Hamilton  HM11,  Bermuda  and  to  the  Company’s  principal  office  at  33rd  Floor,  Harbour  Centre,  25  Harbour  Road, 
Wanchai, Hong Kong, for the attention of the Company Secretary of the Company, to require a special general meeting 
(the “SGM”) to be called by the Board for the transaction of any business specified in such requisition.

The written requisition must state the purposes of the general meeting, signed by the shareholder(s) concerned and may 
consist of several documents in like form, each signed by one or more of those shareholders.

Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  Company’s  branch  share  registrar  (the  “Registrar”)  that  the  shareholder(s) 
submitting the requisition is/are qualified to attend and vote at any general meeting, the Company will convene a SGM 
by serving sufficient notice in accordance with the statutory requirements to all the registered shareholders.

2.  Putting forward proposals at general meetings

The shareholder(s) of the Company holding (i) not less than one-twentieth of the total voting rights of all shareholders 
having the right to vote at the general meeting of the Company; or (ii) not less than 100 shareholders of the Company, 
can submit:

(i)  a written request stating the resolution intended to be moved at an annual general meeting; or

(ii)  a statement of not more than 1,000 words with respect to the matter referred to in any proposed resolution or the 

business to be dealt with at a particular general meeting.

The  written  request/statement  must  be  signed  by  the  shareholder(s)  concerned  and  deposited  at  the  Company’s 
registered office at Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda and to the Company’s principal office 
at 33rd Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong, for the attention of the Company Secretary of 
the Company, not less than six weeks before the annual general meeting in the case of a requisition requiring notice of a 
resolution and not less than one week before the general meeting in the case of any other requisition.

Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  Registrar  of  the  Company  that  the  shareholder(s)  making  the  proposal  is/are 
qualified to attend and vote at the general meeting, the Company will:

(i) 

include the resolution in the agenda for the annual general meeting; or

(ii)  circulate the statement for the general meeting,

provided that the shareholder(s) concerned have deposited a sum of money sufficient to meet the Company’s expenses 
in serving the notice of the resolution and/or circulating the statement to all the registered shareholders.

3.  Putting enquiries to the Board

Shareholders  who  have  enquiries  to  put  to  the  Board  of  the  Company  may  write  to  the  Company  Secretary  of  the 
Company at 33rd Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

7979

Corporate Governance Report

E.  INVESTOR RELATIONS

The Company continues to promote and enhance investor relations and communication with its investors. The Company’s 
investor  relations  team  maintains  regular  dialogue  with  institutional  investors,  analysts  and  fund  managers  to  keep  them 
abreast of the Group’s development.

Shareholders, investors and members of the public are able to access up-to-date corporate information and events related to 
the Group on the Company’s website.

1.  Shareholdings Information

As at 31st December 2017:

Authorised  share  capital:  US$205,000,000,  comprising  900,000,000  ordinary  shares  of  US$0.1  each,  65,000,000  limited 
voting convertible redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each and 50,000,000 redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each.

Issued and fully-paid up capital: US$62,579,329.7 comprising 625,793,297 ordinary shares of US$0.1 each.

Details of the shareholding of the ordinary shares of the Company by the type of shareholders as at 31st December 2017 
are as follows:

Type of Shareholders

Corporate
Individual

Total

Number of 
Shareholders

Shareholders 
% of total

Number 
of Shares

621,933,810
3,859,487

2.6448%
97.3552%

21
773

794

100.00%

625,793,297

Details of the shareholding of the ordinary shares of the Company by range as at 31st December 2017 are as follows:

Size of shareholdings

1 – 10,000
10,001 – 100,000
100,001 – 1,000,000
1,000,001 or above

Total

2.  Public Float

Number of 
Shareholders

Shareholders 
% of total

753
35
2
4

794

94.8363%
4.4081%
0.2519%
0.5037%

100.00%

Based  on  information  that  is  publicly  available  to  the  Company  and  within  the  knowledge  of  the  Directors,  the 
percentage of its public float exceeded 25% as at 31st December 2017.

3.  Financial Calendar

Important dates for the coming financial year are set out on page 54 of this annual report.

4.  Memorandum of Association and Bye-Laws

There  are  no  changes  to  the  memorandum  of  association  and  bye-laws  of  the  Company  (the  “Constitutional 
Documents”) during the year. The consolidated version of the Constitutional Documents is available on the Company’s 
website and on the HKEXnews website.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

80

Report of the Directors

Report of the Directors

The  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Company  (the  “Board”)  presents  this  report  together  with  the  audited  consolidated  financial 
statements for the year ended 31st December 2017.

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

The principal activity of the Company is investment holding and the activities of its principal subsidiaries, associated companies 
and joint ventures are set out on pages 152 to 159 of this annual report.

GROUP RESULTS

The consolidated results of the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Group”) are set out on page 95 of this 
annual report.

DIVIDENDS

An interim dividend of US2.14 cents (HK$0.167) per ordinary share was paid on 11th October 2017.

The Board has resolved not to recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31st December 2017.

BUSINESS REVIEW

A  review  of  the  business  of  the  Group  and  an  analysis  of  the  Group’s  performance  during  the  year  are  provided  in  Chairman’s 
Statement  on  pages  10  and  11,  Operations  Review  on  pages  12  to  21  and  Financial  Review  sections  on  pages  32  to  47  of  this 
annual report. Description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group is facing can be found in Chairman’s Statement 
on  pages  10  and  11  and  Operations  Review  on  pages  12  to  21.  Also,  the  financial  risk  management  objectives  and  policies 
of  the  Group  can  be  found  in  note  3  to  the  consolidated  financial  statements.  No  important  events  affecting  the  Group  have 
occurred since the end of the financial year ended 31st December 2017. The Group’s future business development is provided in 
Chairman’s Statement on pages 10 and 11 and Operations Review on pages 12 to 21 of this annual report. In addition, discussions 
on the Group’s environmental policies and performance and compliance with the relevant laws and regulations and an account of 
the Group’s key relationships with its employees, customers and suppliers and stakeholders, that have a significant impact on the 
Group are contained in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 22 to 31 of this annual report and in the Company’s 2017 
Sustainability Report to be published in accordance with the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of 
Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”).

On  7th  July  2017,  it  was  jointly  announced  by  the  Company,  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  Co.,  Ltd.  (“COSCO  SHIPPING 
Holdings”),  and  Shanghai  International  Port  (Group)  Co.,  Ltd  (“SIPG”)  that  COSCO  SHIPPING  Holdings  and  SIPG  had  made 
a  pre-conditional  voluntary  general  offer  (“Offer”)  to  all  shareholders  of  the  Company  to  acquire  all  of  the  issued  shares  of  the 
Company at an offer price of HK$78.67 per share of the Company in cash. The Offer is dependent upon satisfaction of the pre-
conditions  (the  “Pre-conditions”),  which  include  the  necessary  regulatory  approvals  as  well  as  approval  of  COSCO  SHIPPING 
Holdings’  shareholders.  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  (“Fortune  Crest”)  and  Gala  Way  Company  Inc.  (“Gala  Way”),  the  controlling 
shareholders of the Company at the time of the Offer and together holding 68.70% of the issued share capital of the Company had 
irrevocably undertaken to accept the Offer. 

Further information of the Offer is set out in the joint announcement dated 7th July 2017.

As  at  the  date  of  this  report,  save  as  disclosed  in  the  joint  announcements  dated  7th  August  2017,  7th  September  2017,  9th 
October 2017, 16th October 2017, 23rd October 2017, 7th November 2017, 6th December 2017, 8th January 2018, 7th February 
2018 and 7th March 2018, there were no further updates on the status of fulfillment of the Pre-conditions. The Joint Offerors (as 
defined in the joint announcement dated 7th July 2017) are working towards satisfaction of the unsatisfied Pre-conditions.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

8181

 
Report of the Directors

DIRECTORS

The Directors of the Company during the year and up to the date of this report were:

Executive Directors

Mr. Tung Chee Chen (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer)

Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew

Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan (Chief Financial Officer)

Non-Executive Director

Professor Roger King

Independent Non-Executive Directors

Mr. Simon Murray

Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah

Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard

Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward

Mr. Kwok King Man Clement

In  accordance  with  bye-laws  87(2)  and  87(3)  of  the  Bye-laws  of  the  Company  (the  “Bye-laws”),  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen,  Professor 

Roger  King  and  Mr.  Cheng  Wai  Sun  Edward  will  retire  by  rotation  and,  being  eligible,  will  offer  themselves  for  re-election  at 

the annual general meeting of the Company to be held on 4th May 2018 (the “Annual General Meeting”).  Mr. Cheng Wai Sun 

Edward, an Independent Non-Executive Director, has served the Company for more than nine years, and his re-election will be 

subject to a separate resolution to be approved at the Annual General Meeting pursuant to the Corporate Governance Code (the 

“SEHK Code”) contained in Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules.

None  of  the  Directors  has  a  service  contract  with  the  Company  or  any  of  its  subsidiaries  which  is  not  determinable  by  the 

employing company within one year without payment of compensation, other than statutory compensation.

The  Company  has  received  from  each  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company,  confirmation  of  his  independence 

pursuant to rule 3.13 of the Listing Rules and considers all of them are independent.

DIRECTORS’ RIGHTS TO ACQUIRE SHARES OR DEBENTURES

Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries was a party to any arrangement to enable the Directors of the Company to acquire 

benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate at any time during 

the year or at the end of the year.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

82

 
Report of the Directors

DIRECTORS’ AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S INTEREST

1.  Significant Contracts

The Group shares the rental of office premises at Harbour Centre, Hong Kong on an actual cost reimbursement basis with 
Island  Navigation  Corporation  International  Limited  (“INCIL”),  which  is  owned  by  a  Tung  family  trust.  The  total  amount 
of  rental  on  an  actual  cost  reimbursement  basis  paid  by  INCIL  to  the  Group  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2017  was 
approximately US$1,619,000.

Yuensung Investment Company Limited (“Yuensung”), a company controlled by Mr. C U Tung, the uncle of Mr. Tung Chee 
Chen,  also  shares  the  rental  of  an  office  premises  at  Harbour  Centre,  Hong  Kong  with  our  Group.  The  total  amount  of 
rental  on  an  actual  cost  reimbursement  basis  paid  by  Yuensung  to  the  Group  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2017  was 
approximately US$91,000.

Except for the above (other than contracts amongst Group companies), no other contracts or arrangements of significance in 
relation to the Group’s business to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party, and in which a Director of the 
Company had a material interest, subsisted at the year end or at any time during the year.

2.  Shares

As at 31st December 2017, the issued share capital of the Company consisted of 625,793,297 ordinary shares (the “Shares”). 
The  interests  and  short  positions  of  the  Directors  and  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Company  in  the  Shares,  the  underlying 
Shares  and  the  debentures  of  the  Company  or  any  of  its  associated  corporations  (within  the  meaning  of  Part  XV  of  the 
Securities and Futures Ordinance (“SFO”)) as recorded in the register kept by the Company pursuant to Section 352 of the 
SFO or otherwise notified to the Company and The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Stock Exchange”) pursuant 
to  the  Model  Code  for  Securities  Transactions  by  Directors  of  Listed  Issuers  (the  “Model  Code”)  contained  in  the  Listing 
Rules, were as follows as at 31st December 2017:

Name

Direct interests

Other interests

Tung Chee Chen

Chow Philip Yiu Wah

Simon Murray
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard

Notes:

–

133,100

10,000
–

429,950,088 
(Notes 1 & 2)
20,000 
(Note 3)
–
500 
(Note 4)

Total number 
of Shares 
(Long position)

429,950,088

153,100

10,000
500

Percentage

68.70%

0.024%

0.002%
0.00008%

1.  Mr. Tung Chee Chen has an interest in a trust which, through Artson Global Limited (“Artson”) as trustee, holds shares of Thelma Holdings 
Limited (“Thelma”), which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares, in which Fortune Crest and Gala Way, wholly-owned subsidiaries of 
Thelma, have direct interests in 350,722,656 Shares and 79,227,432 Shares respectively. The voting rights in respect of such 429,950,088 Shares 
are held by Mr. Tung Chee Chen through Tung Holdings (Trustee) Inc. (“THTI”).

2. 

Fortune Crest and Gala Way together are referred to as the controlling shareholders. On 7th July 2017, Fortune Crest and Gala Way entered 
into  an  irrevocable  undertaking  (the  “Irrevocable  Undertaking”)  to  accept  the  Offer  in  respect  of  350,722,656  Shares  and  79,227,432  Shares 
that they respectively own.

3. 

20,000 Shares are held by the spouse of Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah.

4. 

500 Shares are held by the spouse of Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

8383

 
Report of the Directors

Save  as  disclosed  above,  as  at  31st  December  2017,  none  of  the  Directors  or  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Company  had  any 
interest  or  short  position  in  the  Shares,  the  underlying  Shares  and  the  debentures  of  the  Company  or  any  of  its  associated 
corporation (within the meaning of the SFO) which were required to be: (a) notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange 
pursuant to Divisions 7 and 8 of Part XV of the SFO (including interests and short positions which they are taken or deemed 
to have under such provisions of the SFO); or (b) entered in the register kept by the Company pursuant to Section 352 of the 
SFO; or (c) notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange pursuant to the Model Code.

Save as disclosed in below section “Substantial Shareholders’ Share Interest”, as at 31st December 2017, none of the Directors 
or the Chief Executive of the Company was a director or an employee of a company which had an interest or short position 
in the Shares and the underlying Shares which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of Divisions 2 
and 3 of Part XV of the SFO.

3.  Directors’ Interests in Competing Business

As  at  31st  December  2017,  none  of  the  Directors  and  their  respective  associates  (as  defined  in  the  Listing  Rules)  had  any 
interest in a business, which competed or might compete with the business of the Group.

MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS

No contracts concerning the management and administration of the whole or any substantial part of any business of the Company 
were entered into during the year or subsisted at the end of the year.

SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS’ SHARE INTEREST

As at 31st December 2017, the following persons (other than the Directors or the Chief Executive of the Company) had an interest 
or short position in the Shares and the underlying Shares which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of 
Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO as recorded in the register required to be kept by the Company under Section 336 of the 
SFO:

Name

Artson Global Limited*
Hanberry Global Limited#
Thelma Holdings Limited*
Tung Chee Hwa
Archmore Investment Limited*
Edgemont Holdings Limited*
Javier Global Limited*
Bartlock Assets Ltd.#
Flowell Development Inc.
Izone Capital Limited*
Jeference Capital Inc.*
Tung Holdings (Trustee) Inc.*
Fortune Crest Inc.*
Gala Way Company Inc.*

Nature of interest

Trustee
Trustee
Indirect
Indirect
Beneficiary of a trust
Indirect
Indirect
Beneficiary of a trust
Beneficiary of a trust
Beneficiary of a trust
Beneficiary of a trust
Voting
Direct
Direct

Number of Shares interested 
(Long position)

Percentage

429,950,088 (Note 1)
429,950,088 (Note 2)
429,950,088 (Note 3)
429,975,319 (Note 4)
429,950,088 (Note 5)
429,950,088 (Note 6)
429,950,088 (Note 7)
429,950,088 (Note 8)
429,950,088 (Note 9)
429,950,088 (Note 10)
429,950,088 (Note 11)
429,950,088 (Note 12)
350,722,656 (Notes 13 & 15)
79,227,432 (Notes 14 & 15)

68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
56.04%
12.66%

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

84

 
Report of the Directors

Notes:

1. 

Artson, a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, holds 56.36% of the shares of Thelma and, accordingly, has an indirect interest in 

the same Shares in which Thelma has an interest.

2.  Hanberry  Global  Limited  (“Hanberry”),  a  company  which  is  wholly  owned  by  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa  (brother  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen,  brother-in-
law of Professor Roger King, and father of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew and Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan), holds 43.64% of the shares of Thelma and, 

accordingly, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Thelma has an interest.

3. 

Thelma, a company which is owned collectively by Artson and Hanberry, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Fortune Crest and Gala 

Way, wholly-owned subsidiaries of Thelma, have an interest.

4.  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa  has  an  interest  in  a  trust  which,  through  Hanberry  as  trustee,  holds  shares  of  Thelma,  which  has  an  indirect  interest  in 

429,950,088  Shares.  Mrs.  Tung  Chiu  Hung  Ping  Betty  (spouse  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa,  sister-in-law  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  and  Professor  Roger 

King, and mother of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew and Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan) owns 25,231 Shares.

5. 

Archmore Investment Limited (“Archmore”), a company which is wholly owned by Edgemont Holdings Limited (“Edgemont”), has an interest in a 
trust which, through Artson as trustee, holds shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

6. 

Edgemont has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Archmore, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Edgemont, has an interest.

7. 

8. 

9. 

Javier  Global  Limited  (“Javier”),  a  company  which  is  wholly  owned  by  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen,  has  an  indirect  interest  in  the  same  Shares  in  which 
Edgemont, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Javier, has an interest.

Bartlock Assets Ltd. (“Bartlock”), a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Hwa, has an interest in a trust which, through Hanberry as 
trustee, holds shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

Flowell Development Inc. (“Flowell”), a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, has an interest in a trust which, through Artson as 
trustee, holds shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

10. 

Izone  Capital  Limited  (“Izone”),  a  company  which  is  wholly  owned  by  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen,  has  an  interest  in  a  trust  which,  through  Artson  as 
trustee, holds shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

11. 

Jeference Capital Inc. (“Jeference”), a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, has an interest in a trust which, through Artson as 
trustee, holds shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

12.  THTI is a company wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen.

13.  Fortune Crest has a direct interest in 350,722,656 Shares.

14.  Gala Way has a direct interest in 79,227,432 Shares.

15.  On  7th  July  2017,  Fortune  Crest  and  Gala  Way  entered  into  the  Irrevocable  Undertaking  to  accept  the  Offer  in  respect  of  350,722,656  Shares  and 

79,227,432  Shares  that  they  respectively  own  and  in  which  (i)  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen,  Artson,  Hanberry,  Thelma,  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa,  Archmore, 

Edgemont, Javier, Bartlock, Flowell, Izone, and Jeference respectively have an indirect interest, and (ii) THTI holds the voting rights.

* 

For those companies marked with “*”, Mr. Tung Chee Chen is either a director of these companies or a director of a company which is a corporate 
director of these companies.

# 

For those companies marked with “#”, Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew is a director of these companies.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

8585

 
Report of the Directors

Save as disclosed herein, as at 31st December 2017, the Company has not been notified by any person (other than the Directors 
or the Chief Executive of the Company) who had an interest or short position in the Shares or the underlying Shares which were 
required to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO, or which were recorded 
in the register required to be kept by the Company under Section 336 of the SFO.

CONNECTED TRANSACTIONS

During  the  year  ended  31st  December  2017,  the  Group  had  the  following  continuing  connected  transactions  (the  “Continuing 
Connected  Transactions”)  constituted  by  the  following  agreements  entered  into  by  OOCL  (Taiwan)  Co.,  Ltd.  (“OTWL”),  the 
Group’s Taiwanese subsidiary and acting as the general agent for the carrier of the Group in Taiwan:

a)  CMT Master Agreement

Pursuant  to  a  master  agreement  dated  29th  June  2005,  as  supplemented  by  the  supplemental  agreements  dated  10th 
December  2007,  15th  December  2010,  4th  December  2013  and  5th  December  2016  (the  “CMT  Master  Agreement”),  all 
entered  into  between  OTWL  and  Chinese  Maritime  Transport  Ltd.  (“CMT”),  CMT  agreed  to  provide  and  to  procure 
members of the CMT group to provide various services to the Group including, inter alia, (i) trucking service; (ii) leasing 
of  equipment  (including  chassis  and  tractors);  (iii)  maintenance  and  repair  services  for  generator  sets  and  chassis;  (iv) 
freight  station  depot  and  container  storage  facilities;  (v)  container  yard  and  gate  services;  and  (vi)  crew  manning  services, 
for successive periods of three years subject to the annual caps of US$57,800,000, US$60,700,000 and US$63,800,000 for the 
financial years of 2017, 2018 and 2019 respectively.

During the year 2017, US$28,226,000 was paid by OTWL to the CMT group for the aforesaid services.

b)  AII Master Agreement

Pursuant  to  a  master  agreement  dated  29th  June  2005,  as  supplemented  by  the  supplemental  agreement  dated  10th 
December  2007,  15th  December  2010,  4th  December  2013  and  5th  December  2016  (the  “AII  Master  Agreement”),  all 
entered  into  between  OTWL  and  Associated  International  Inc.  (“AII”),  AII  agreed  to  provide  and  to  procure  members  of 
the AII group to provide various services to the Group including, inter alia, (i) provision of office premises; and (ii) freight 
station depot and container storage facilities, for successive periods of three years subject to the annual caps of US$2,800,000 
for each of the financial years of 2017, 2018 and 2019.

During the year 2017, US$1,188,000 was paid by OTWL to the AII group for the aforesaid services.

Mr. John Peng is the controlling shareholder of CMT and AII, and the brother-in-law of Mr. Tung Chee Chen who is an Executive 
Director, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company; the brother-in-law of Professor Roger King, a Non-
Executive Director of the Company; the uncle of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew, an Executive Director of the Company, and Mr. 
Tung Lieh Sing Alan, an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer of the Company; and the brother-in-law of Mr. Tung Chee 
Hwa who has an interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in certain substantial shareholders of the Company. Mr. Peng and 
accordingly CMT and AII are therefore connected persons of the Company as defined in the Listing Rules.

Pursuant  to  rule  14A.55  of  the  Listing  Rules,  the  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors  of  the  Company,  namely  Mr.  Simon 
Murray,  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  Professor  Wong  Yue  Chim  Richard,  Mr.  Cheng  Wai  Sun  Edward  and  Mr.  Kwok  King  Man 
Clement, have reviewed the Continuing Connected Transactions and confirmed that the Continuing Connected Transactions have 
been entered into (a) in the ordinary and usual course of business of the Group; (b) on normal commercial terms or better; and (c) 
according to the relevant agreements governing them on terms that are fair and reasonable and in the interests of the shareholders 
of the Company as a whole.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

86

 
Report of the Directors

The  Company’s  auditor  was  engaged  to  report  on  the  Group’s  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  in  accordance  with  Hong 
Kong Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) “Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
Financial  Information”  and  with  reference  to  Practice  Note  740  “Auditor’s  Letter  on  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  under 
the  Hong  Kong  Listing  Rules”  issued  by  the  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified  Public  Accountants.  The  auditor  has  issued  his 
unqualified letter containing the findings and conclusions in respect of the Continuing Connected Transactions as disclosed above 
in  accordance  with  rule  14A.56  of  the  Listing  Rules  and  nothing  has  come  to  his  attention  that  causes  him  to  believe  that  the 
disclosed Continuing Connected Transactions:

(i)  have not been approved by the Board of Directors of the Company;

(ii)  were not entered into, in all material respects, in accordance with the relevant agreements governing the transactions; and

(iii)  have exceeded the maximum aggregate annual caps in respect of each of the disclosed Continuing Connected Transactions.

PERMITTED INDEMNITY

Pursuant  to  the  Company’s  Bye-laws  and  subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  statutes,  every  Director  of  the  Company  shall  be 
indemnified and secured harmless out of the assets and profits of the Company from and against all actions, costs, charges, losses, 
damages  and  expenses  which  he  may  incur  or  sustain  in  or  about  the  execution  of  his  duty;  provided  that  the  indemnity  shall 
not  extend  to  any  matter  in  respect  of  any  wilful  negligence,  wilful  default,  fraud  or  dishonesty  which  may  attach  to  any  of  the 
Directors.

Since 1992, the Company has arranged insurance cover for directors’ and officers’ liabilities including cover for Directors, officers 
and senior management of the Group arising out of the corporate activities of the Group.

PURCHASE, SALE OR REDEMPTION OF SHARES

During the year ended 31st December 2017, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries had purchased, sold or redeemed any 
of the Company’s Shares.

PRE-EMPTIVE RIGHTS

No pre-emptive rights exist under Bermudan law in relation to the issue of new shares by the Company.

SHARE CAPITAL

Details of the shares of the Company issued during the year are set out in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements on page 
144 of this annual report.

RESERVES

Movements during the year in the reserves of the Group and the Company are set out in note 36 and note 42 to the consolidated 
financial statements on pages 145 and 151 of this annual report.

EQUITY-LINKED AGREEMENTS

For the year ended 31st December 2017, the Company had not entered into any equity-linked agreement.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The  Board  and  management  of  the  Company  are  committed  to  maintaining  high  standards  of  corporate  governance  and  the 
Company  considers  that  effective  corporate  governance  makes  an  important  contribution  to  corporate  success  and  to  the 
enhancement of shareholder value.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

8787

 
Report of the Directors

The Company has adopted its own corporate governance code (the “CG Code”), which in addition to applying the principles as set 
out in the SEHK Code contained in Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules, also incorporates and conforms to local and international 
best  practices.  The  CG  Code  sets  out  the  corporate  governance  principles  applied  by  the  Company  and  its  subsidiaries  and  is 
constantly reviewed to ensure transparency, accountability and independence. Further information on the CG Code is set out in 
the corporate governance report (the “Corporate Governance Report”) on pages 57 to 80 of this annual report.

Throughout the year of 2017, the Company complied with the SEHK Code, except as set out in the Corporate Governance Report.

PUBLIC FLOAT

Based on the information that is publicly available to the Company and within the knowledge of the Directors of the Company, as 
at the date of this report, there was sufficient public float of more than 25% of the Company’s issued Shares as required under the 
Listing Rules.

DONATIONS

Donations made by the Group during the year amount to US$242,000.

ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

The Annual General Meeting will be held on 4th May 2018.

A circular containing, inter alia, (i) a notice convening the Annual General Meeting; (ii) details of the retiring Directors to be re-
elected at the Annual General Meeting; (iii) the general mandate to authorise the allotment of and otherwise dealing with shares of 
all classes in the capital of the Company and securities convertible into shares and options, warrants or similar rights to subscribe 
for  shares  or  such  convertible  securities;  and  (iv)  the  general  mandate  to  authorise  the  repurchase  of  the  Company’s  securities 
together with a proxy form will be despatched to the shareholders of the Company on or around 29th March 2018.

COMPANY SECRETARY

The Company Secretary of the Company is Ms. Lammy Lee, Barrister.

AUDITOR

The  Group’s  consolidated  financial  statements  have  been  audited  by  PricewaterhouseCoopers  who  will  retire  at  the  Annual 
General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.

On behalf of the Board
Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Tung Chee Chen
Chairman

Hong Kong, 9th March 2018

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

88

 
Index – Financial Information

Index – Financial Information

Summary of significant accounting policies
Financial risk management

Content
Independent Auditor’s Report
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1.  General information
2. 
3. 
4.  Critical accounting estimates and judgements
5.  Revenue and segment information
6.  Operating costs
7.  Other operating income
8.  Other gains/(losses), net
9.  Employee benefit expense
10.  Directors’ and management’s emoluments
11.  Operating profit/(loss)
12.  Finance costs
13.  Taxation
14.  Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share
15.  Dividends
16.  Property, plant and equipment
17.  Investment property
18.  Prepayments of lease premiums
19.  Joint ventures
20.  Associated companies
21.  Intangible assets
22.  Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities)
23.  Pension and retirement benefits
24.  Restricted bank balances
25.  Available-for-sale financial assets
26.  Held-to-maturity investments
27.  Other non-current assets
28.  Inventories
29.  Debtors and prepayments
30.  Amount due from an associated company
31.  Amounts due from joint ventures
32.  Portfolio investments
33.  Derivative financial instruments
34.  Cash and bank balances
35.  Share capital
36.  Reserves
37.  Borrowings
38.  Creditors and accruals
39.  Amounts due to joint ventures
40.  Commitments
41.  Notes to consolidated cash flow statement
42.  Company balance sheet
43.  Approval of consolidated financial statements
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures

Page no.
90
95
96
97
99
100

101
101
114
119
120
123
124
124
124
125
127
127
127
128
128
129
130
131
132
132
133
133
135
138
138
139
140
140
140
142
142
142
143
144
144
145
145
147
147
148
149
150
151
152

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

89

 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report

Independent Auditor’s Report

To the Shareholders of Orient Overseas (International) Limited
(incorporated in Bermuda with limited liability)

OPINION
What we have audited

The  consolidated  financial  statements  of  Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (the  “Company”)  and  its  subsidiaries  (the 
“Group”) set out on pages 95 to 159, which comprise:

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

the consolidated balance sheet as at 31st December 2017;
the consolidated profit and loss account for the year then ended;
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended;
the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and
the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies.

Our opinion

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group 
as at 31st December 2017, and of its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended 
in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants  (“HKICPA”)  and  have  been  properly  prepared  in  compliance  with  the  disclosure  requirements  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Companies Ordinance.

BASIS FOR OPINION
We  conducted  our  audit  in  accordance  with  Hong  Kong  Standards  on  Auditing  (“HKSAs”)  issued  by  the  HKICPA.  Our 
responsibilities  under  those  standards  are  further  described  in  the  Auditor’s  Responsibilities  for  the  Audit  of  the  Consolidated 
Financial Statements section of our report.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence

We are independent of the Group in accordance with the HKICPA’s Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (“the Code”), and 
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code.

KEY AUDIT MATTERS
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements as at and for the year ended 31st December 2017. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of 
the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on 
these matters.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

90

 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report

Key audit matters identified in our audit are summarised as follows:

• 
• 

Recognition of freight revenue on a percentage of completion basis
Provision for operating costs

Key Audit Matter

Recognition  of  freight  revenue  on  a  percentage  of 
completion basis

Refer to notes 2.21 and 5 to the consolidated financial 
statements.

For  the  year  ended  31st  December  2017,  the  majority 
of  the  Group’s  revenue  of  US$6,108.4  million  (2016: 
US$5,297.7 million) was derived from the freight revenue 
from container transport operation.

The  Group  recognises  freight  revenue  on  a  percentage  of 
completion  basis  which  is  determined  on  the  portion  of 
vessel  voyages  completed  at  year  end  with  reference  to 
their voyage details such as freight rates, departures dates 
and arrival dates.

The  transaction  volume  of  the  voyages  which  are  in 
progress  as  at  year  end  is  significant  and  complex 
calculations  are  involved  in  the  estimation  of  freight 
revenue on a percentage of completion basis.

How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Our procedures in relation to management’s quantification of 
freight revenue in relation to those vessel voyages which were 
in progress at year end included:

•  Understanding,  evaluating  and  testing  the  information 
technology general control environment of the operation 
system used to record the freight revenue transactions.

•  Understanding,  evaluating  and  testing  the  key  controls 
over  the  recognition  of  freight  revenue  and  receivable, 
in particular relating to estimation of freight revenue for 
vessel voyages in progress at the year end.

• 

• 

• 

Agreeing  the  departure  dates  and  arrival  dates  of  vessel 
voyages  in  progress  at  year  end  in  the  operation  system 
to the sailing schedules, on a sample basis.

Agreeing  the  total  freight  revenue  by  vessel  voyages  in 
the operation system to the accounting records.

Recomputing  the  estimated  freight  revenue  of  vessel 
voyages  which  were  in  progress  as  at  year  end  with 
reference  to  the  departure  dates  and  arrival  dates  on  a 
sample basis.

We  found  that  management’s  estimation  of  freight  revenue 
for  vessel  voyages  in  progress  at  year  end  are  supportable  by 
available evidence.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

9191

 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report

Key Audit Matter

Provision for operating costs

Refer to notes 4(c) and 38 to the consolidated financial 
statements.

As  at  31st  December  2017,  included  in  the  accrued 
expenses  of  US$420.7  million  (2016:  US$354.2  million) 
was a provision for operating costs for container transport 
operation which mainly comprise cargo, vessel and voyage 
costs,  equipment  and  repositioning  costs  and  terminal 
operating costs.

As  it  takes  several  months  to  finalise  certain  costs  with 
suppliers  subsequent  to  the  receipt  of  such  services, 
management  makes  a  provision  for  such  operating  costs 
based  on  known  services  received,  pattern  of  historical 
cost and estimated vendor tariffs.

The  estimation  of  provision  for  operating  costs  involves 
significant  judgement  taking  into  account  a  number  of 
factors, such as pattern of historical cost and the estimated 
vendor  tariff.  Changes  in  estimation  could  result  in 
material changes to the provision for operating costs.

How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Our procedures in relation to management’s estimation of the 
provision for operating costs included:

•  Understanding,  evaluating  and  testing  the  information 
technology general control environment of the operation 
system  used  to  record  the  operating  costs  and  cost 
provisioning.

•  Understanding,  evaluating  and  testing  the  key  controls 
over the operating costs, cost provisioning and accounts 
payable cycle, in particular relating to the accuracy of the 
vendor tariffs in the operation system.

•  Understanding and reperforming the computation of the 

provision for operating costs, on a sample basis.

• 

• 

• 

Reviewing  and  discussing  monthly  trend  analysis  for 
provision for operating costs with management to assess 
the sufficiency of provisions made.

Checking  the  subsequent  utilisation  of  provision  for 
operating  costs  to  evaluate  the  sufficiency  of  provision 
made.

Reviewing  paid  and  unpaid  invoices  after  year  end  to 
ascertain  whether  liabilities  have  been  recorded  in  the 
proper period, on a sample basis.

We  found  that  the  judgement  involved  in  making  the 
provision for operating costs was supportable by the available 
evidence.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

92

 
 
 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report

Other Information

The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises all of the information 
included in the annual report other than the consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.

Our  opinion  on  the  consolidated  financial  statements  does  not  cover  the  other  information  and  we  do  not  express  any  form  of 
assurance conclusion thereon.

In  connection  with  our  audit  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements,  our  responsibility  is  to  read  the  other  information  and, 
in  doing  so,  consider  whether  the  other  information  is  materially  inconsistent  with  the  consolidated  financial  statements  or  our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.

If,  based  on  the  work  we  have  performed,  we  conclude  that  there  is  a  material  misstatement  of  this  other  information,  we  are 
required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of Directors and the Audit Committee for the Consolidated Financial Statements

The  directors  of  the  Company  are  responsible  for  the  preparation  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements  that  give  a  true  and 
fair  view  in  accordance  with  HKFRSs  issued  by  the  HKICPA  and  the  disclosure  requirements  of  the  Hong  Kong  Companies 
Ordinance, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial 
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements

Our  objectives  are  to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether  the  consolidated  financial  statements  as  a  whole  are  free  from 
material  misstatement,  whether  due  to  fraud  or  error,  and  to  issue  an  auditor’s  report  that  includes  our  opinion.  We  report  our 
opinion solely to you, as a body, in accordance with Section 90 of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda and for no other purpose. 
We  do  not  assume  responsibility  towards  or  accept  liability  to  any  other  person  for  the  contents  of  this  report.  Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with HKSAs will always detect 
a  material  misstatement  when  it  exists.  Misstatements  can  arise  from  fraud  or  error  and  are  considered  material  if,  individually 
or  in  the  aggregate,  they  could  reasonably  be  expected  to  influence  the  economic  decisions  of  users  taken  on  the  basis  of  these 
consolidated financial statements.

As  part  of  an  audit  in  accordance  with  HKSAs,  we  exercise  professional  judgement  and  maintain  professional  scepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:

• 

Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control.

•  Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in 
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.

• 

Evaluate  the  appropriateness  of  accounting  policies  used  and  the  reasonableness  of  accounting  estimates  and  related 
disclosures made by the directors.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

9393

 
Independent Auditor’s Report

• 

• 

Conclude  on  the  appropriateness  of  the  directors’  use  of  the  going  concern  basis  of  accounting  and,  based  on  the  audit 
evidence  obtained,  whether  a  material  uncertainty  exists  related  to  events  or  conditions  that  may  cast  significant  doubt  on 
the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.

Evaluate  the  overall  presentation,  structure  and  content  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements,  including  the  disclosures, 
and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves 
fair presentation.

•  Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within 
the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision 
and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We  communicate  with  the  Audit  Committee  regarding,  among  other  matters,  the  planned  scope  and  timing  of  the  audit  and 
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We  also  provide  the  Audit  Committee  with  a  statement  that  we  have  complied  with  relevant  ethical  requirements  regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.

From  the  matters  communicated  with  the  Audit  Committee,  we  determine  those  matters  that  were  of  most  significance  in  the 
audit  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of  the  current  period  and  are  therefore  the  key  audit  matters.  We  describe  these 
matters  in  our  auditor’s  report  unless  law  or  regulation  precludes  public  disclosure  about  the  matter  or  when,  in  extremely  rare 
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is Cheng Kam Fung.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
Certified Public Accountants

Hong Kong, 9th March 2018

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

94

 
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account

For the year ended 31st December 2017

Consolidated Profit and Loss Account

For the year ended 31st December 2017

US$’000

Revenue
Operating costs

Gross profit
Fair value gain from an investment property
Other operating income
Business and administrative expenses
Other gains/(losses), net

Operating profit/(loss)
Finance costs
Share of profits of joint ventures
Share of profits of associated companies

Profit/(loss) before taxation
Taxation

Profit/(loss) for the year

Profit/(loss) attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company

Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share (US cents)
Basic and diluted

Note

5
6

17
7

8

11
12
19
20

13

14

2017

6,108,350
(5,531,438)

2016

5,297,693
(5,032,272)

576,912
43,436
72,082
(487,299)
27,039

232,170
(101,215)
5,177
13,957

150,089
(12,433)

137,656

265,421
18,522
72,456
(468,897)
(25,729)

(138,227)
(79,393)
5,135
12,818

(199,667)
(19,554)

(219,221)

137,656

(219,221)

22.0

(35.0)

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

9595

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

For the year ended 31st December 2017

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

For the year ended 31st December 2017

US$’000

Profit/(loss) for the year

Other comprehensive income/(loss):
Item that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit schemes

Items that have been reclassified or may be reclassified  

subsequently to profit or loss:
Available-for-sale financial assets

– Change in fair value
– Release of assets revaluation reserve upon disposal
– Release of assets revaluation reserve upon impairment

Currency translation adjustments

– Foreign subsidiaries
– Associated companies
– Joint ventures

Total items that have been reclassified or may be  

reclassified subsequently to profit or loss

Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax

2017

137,656

2016

(219,221)

10,506

(20,118)

12,492
–
–

6,978
8,505
478

28,453

38,959

(28,012)
4,753
13,201

(6,880)
(9,176)
(1,167)

(27,281)

(47,399)

Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year

176,615

(266,620)

Total comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company

176,615

(266,620)

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

96

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet

As at 31st December 2017

US$’000

ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
Investment property
Prepayments of lease premiums
Joint ventures
Associated companies
Intangible assets
Deferred taxation assets
Pension and retirement assets
Restricted bank balances
Available-for-sale financial assets
Held-to-maturity investments
Other non-current assets

Current assets
Inventories
Debtors and prepayments
Amount due from an associated company
Amounts due from joint ventures
Held-to-maturity investments
Portfolio investments
Derivative financial instruments
Tax recoverable
Restricted bank balances
Cash and bank balances

Total assets

EQUITY
Equity holders
Share capital
Reserves

Total equity

Consolidated Balance Sheet

As at 31st December 2017

Note

2017

2016

16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27

28
29
30
31
26
32
33

24
34

35
36

6,251,457
270,000
7,972
10,833
148,840
49,204
1,476
243
60,414
45,383
217,889
40,863

7,104,574

102,157
589,936
–
6,007
17,040
294,720
1,825
8,637
3,425
1,940,975

2,964,722

10,069,296

62,579
4,619,934

4,682,513

6,076,673
220,000
7,818
11,225
137,527
60,143
4,227
–
403
93,148
195,296
32,091

6,838,551

84,472
474,158
2,854
431
41,621
322,927
2,097
10,780
1,023
1,625,676

2,566,039

9,404,590

62,579
4,456,707

4,519,286

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

9797

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note

2017

2016

37
22
23

38
39
37

3,930,025
65,221
38
11,628

4,006,912

740,260
7,526
624,158
7,927

1,379,871

5,386,783

10,069,296

3,489,272
71,337
11,857
–

3,572,466

695,897
10,712
601,465
4,764

1,312,838

4,885,304

9,404,590

Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31st December 2017

US$’000

LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings
Deferred taxation liabilities
Pension and retirement liabilities
Other non-current liabilities

Current liabilities
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to joint ventures
Borrowings
Current taxation

Total liabilities

Total equity and liabilities

C C Tung
Alan Tung
Directors

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

98

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement

For the year ended 31st December 2017

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement

For the year ended 31st December 2017

US$’000

Note

2017

2016

Cash flows from operating activities

Operating profit/(loss)
Interest income
Dividend income and distribution
Depreciation and amortisation
Loss on disposal of intangible assets
Impairment on available-for-sale financial assets
Fair value gain from assets and liabilities
Net (gain)/loss on disposal of non-current assets

Operating profit before working capital changes
Increase in inventories
(Increase)/decrease in debtors and prepayments
Increase/(decrease) in creditors and accruals
Increase in other non-current liabilities
Change in net pension assets/liabilities
Settlement of derivative financial instruments

Cash generated from operations
Interest and financing charges paid
Hong Kong profits tax (paid)/refunded
Overseas taxes paid

Net cash from operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities

Sale and redemption on maturity of non-current assets
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Purchase of other non-current assets
Decrease/(increase) in portfolio investments
Investment in a joint venture
Net change in amounts due to joint ventures
(Increase)/decrease in restricted bank balances and  
bank deposits maturing more than three months

Interest received
Dividends and distribution received from investments
Dividends received from joint ventures and associated companies

Net cash (used in)/from investing activities

Cash flows from financing activities

Drawdown of loans
Repayment of loans
Drawdown of finance lease obligations
Capital element of finance lease rental payments
Dividend paid to equity holders of the Company

Net cash from/(used in) financing activities

Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments

41(a)
41(a)
41(a)
41(a)

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

41(c)

232,170
(46,611)
(22,975)
439,824
6,690
–
(50,196)
(8,434)

550,468
(17,685)
(115,641)
41,161
11,628
(1,556)
2,319

470,694
(90,095)
(21)
(10,220)

370,358

155,757
(470,428)
(98,101)
46,200
(154)
(8,762)

(61,956)
46,496
9,710
20,204

(361,034)

447,361
(552,076)
659,521
(236,838)
(13,388)

304,580

313,904
1,625,219
1,852

1,940,975

(138,227)
(39,580)
(30,016)
408,874
–
13,201
(28,791)
6,171

191,632
(11,991)
26,118
(56,580)
–
(688)
852

149,343
(72,343)
334
(8,863)

68,471

41,128
(251,822)
(59,181)
(23,375)
–
2,115

277,596
40,036
15,766
10,140

52,403

559,289
(658,098)
–
(129,649)
(11,604)

(240,062)

(119,188)
1,737,511
6,896

1,625,219

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

9999

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

For the year ended 31st December 2017

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

For the year ended 31st December 2017

US$’000

At 31st December 2015
Total comprehensive loss for the year
Transactions with owners
2015 final dividend

At 31st December 2016
Total comprehensive income for the year
Transactions with owners
2017 interim dividend

Equity holders

Share capital

62,579
–

–

62,579
–

Reserves

4,734,931
(266,620)

Total

4,797,510
(266,620)

(11,604)

(11,604)

4,456,707
176,615

4,519,286
176,615

–

(13,388)

(13,388)

At 31st December 2017

62,579

4,619,934

4,682,513

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

100

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

1.  GENERAL INFORMATION

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (“the  Company”)  is  a  limited  liability  company  incorporated  in  Bermuda.  The 

address  of  its  registered  office  is  Clarendon  House,  2  Church  Street,  Hamilton  HM11,  Bermuda  and  the  principal  office  is 

33rd floor, Harbour Centre, No. 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong.

The  principal  activity  of  the  Company  is  investment  holding  and  the  activities  of  its  principal  subsidiaries,  associated 

companies and joint ventures are set out on pages 152 to 159 of the consolidated financial statements.

The Company has its shares listed on the Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.

The ultimate parent company of the Group is Tung Holdings (Trustee) Inc., incorporated in the Republic of Liberia.

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The  significant  accounting  policies  applied  in  the  preparation  of  these  consolidated  financial  statements  are  set  out  below. 

These policies have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless otherwise stated.

2.1  Basis of preparation

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards 

(“HKFRS”). They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investment 

property, available-for-sale financial assets, portfolio investments and derivative financial instruments which are carried 

at fair value.

The  preparation  of  consolidated  financial  statements  in  conformity  with  HKFRS  requires  the  use  of  certain  critical 

accounting  estimates.  It  also  requires  management  to  exercise  its  judgement  in  the  process  of  applying  the  Group’s 

accounting  policies.  The  areas  involving  a  higher  degree  of  judgement  or  complexity,  or  areas  where  assumptions  and 

estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 4.

The adoption of revised HKFRS

In 2017, the Group adopted the following amendments to existing HKFRS below, which are relevant to its operations.

Amendments to existing standards

HKAS 7 (Amendments)
HKAS 12 (Amendments)
HKFRS 12 (Amendment)

Statement of Cash Flows
Income Taxes
Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities

The  adoption  of  the  above  amendments  to  existing  HKFRS  do  not  have  a  material  impact  to  the  Group  and  the 

additional  disclosure  on  the  reconciliation  of  liabilities  arising  from  financing  activities  required  by  HKAS  7 

(Amendments) have been disclosed in note 41(a).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

101101

 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

New standards, amendments, improvements and interpretations to existing standards that are relevant but 
not yet effective to the Group

New standards, amendments, improvements and interpretations to existing standards

HKFRSs
HKFRS 9
HKFRS 15
HKFRS 15 (Amendment)
HKAS 40 (Amendment)
HK(IFRIC)-Int 22
HKFRSs
HKFRS 9 (Amendment)

HKFRS 16
HK(IFRIC)-Int 23
HKFRS 17

Annual Improvements 2014 – 2016 Reporting Cycle
Financial Instruments
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Clarifications to HKFRS 15
Transfer of Investment Property
Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration
Annual Improvements 2015 – 2017 Reporting Cycle
Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation and 
Modification of Financial Liabilities
Leases
Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments
Insurance Contracts

Effective for 
accounting periods 
beginning on or after

1st January 2018
1st January 2018
1st January 2018
1st January 2018
1st January 2018
1st January 2018
1st January 2019
1st January 2019

1st January 2019
1st January 2019
1st January 2021

The adoption of HKFRSs Annual Improvements 2014 – 2016 Reporting Cycle, HKFRSs Annual Improvements 2015 – 
2017 Reporting Cycle, HKFRS 17, HKAS 40 (Amendment), HK(IFRIC)-Int 22 and HK(IFRIC)-Int 23 are not expected 
to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. The following assessment on HKFRS 
9, 15 and 16 have been carried out.

HKFRS 9 Financial Instruments

HKFRS  9  will  have  impact  on  the  classification  and  measurement  of  financial  assets  using  the  expected  credit  loss 
method.  Management  has  preliminarily  assessed  its  impact  to  the  Group’s  consolidated  financial  statements  and 
considers adoption of HKFRS 9 will not have a significant impact on the Group’s results or financial position.

HKFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers

HKFRS  15  replaces  HKAS  11  which  covers  construction  contracts  and  HKAS  18  which  covers  contracts  for  goods 
and  services  for  revenue  recognition.  It  introduces  the  concept  of  recognising  revenue  over  time  if  the  performance 
obligation  is  satisfied  over  time.  That  is,  the  customer  simultaneously  receives  and  consumes  the  benefits  provided. 
Management  has  performed  an  assessment  on  HKFRS  15  and  considers  there  is  no  significant  impact  on  the  Group’s 
consolidated financial statements.

HKFRS 16 Leases

HKFRS 16 will affect primarily the accounting for the Group’s operating leases. Under HKFRS 16, an asset (the right to 
use the leased item) and a financial liability to pay rentals are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet. Management 
is in the process of assessing to what extent the operating lease commitments as disclosed in note 40(b) will result in the 
recognition of an asset and a liability for future payments and how this will affect the Group’s results and classification 
of cash flows.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

102

 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.2  Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 
31st December.

The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s attributable share of post-acquisition results and reserves 
of its joint ventures and associated companies.

(a)  Subsidiaries

A subsidiary is an entity (including a structured entity) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an 
entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has 
the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on 
which control is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.

The  Group  uses  the  acquisition  method  of  accounting  to  account  for  business  combinations.  The  consideration 
transferred  for  the  acquisition  of  a  subsidiary  is  the  fair  values  of  the  assets  transferred,  the  liabilities  incurred 
and  the  equity  interests  issued  by  the  Group.  The  consideration  transferred  includes  the  fair  value  of  any  asset 
or  liability  resulting  from  a  contingent  consideration  arrangement.  Acquisition-related  costs  are  expensed  as 
incurred.  Identifiable  assets  acquired  and  liabilities  and  contingent  liabilities  assumed  in  a  business  combination 
are  measured  initially  at  their  fair  values  at  the  acquisition  date.  The  Group  recognises  any  non-controlling 
interest  in  the  acquiree  on  an  acquisition-by-acquisition  basis.  Non-controlling  interests  in  the  acquiree  that  are 
present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets in the event 
of  liquidation  are  measured  at  either  fair  value  or  the  present  ownership  interests’  proportionate  share  in  the 
recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. All other components of non-controlling interests are 
measured at their acquisition date fair value, unless another measurement basis is required by HKFRS.

The  excess  of  the  consideration  transferred,  the  amount  of  any  non-controlling  interest  in  the  acquiree  and  the 
acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net 
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised 
and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the 
case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Inter-company  transactions,  balances  and  unrealised  gains  on  transactions  between  group  companies  are 
eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the 
asset transferred.

(b)  Transactions with non-controlling interests

Transactions  with  non-controlling  interests  that  do  not  result  in  a  loss  of  control  are  accounted  for  as  equity 
transactions – that is, as transactions with the owners of the subsidiary in their capacity as owners. The difference 
between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary 
is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.

When  the  Group  ceases  to  have  control,  any  retained  interest  in  the  entity  is  remeasured  to  its  fair  value,  with 
the  change  in  carrying  amount  recognised  in  profit  or  loss.  The  fair  value  is  the  initial  carrying  amount  for  the 
purposes  of  subsequent  accounting  for  the  retained  interest  as  an  associated  company,  joint  venture  or  financial 
asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are 
accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts 
previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

103103

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.2  Consolidation (Continued)

(c)  Joint arrangements

Joint  arrangements  are  classified  as  either  joint  operations  or  joint  ventures  depending  on  the  contractual  rights 
and obligations of each investor. The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them 
to be joint ventures. Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.

Under  the  equity  method  of  accounting,  interests  in  joint  ventures  are  initially  recognised  at  cost  and  adjusted 
thereafter  to  recognise  the  Group’s  share  of  the  post-acquisition  profits  or  losses  and  movements  in  other 
comprehensive  income.  When  the  Group’s  share  of  losses  in  a  joint  venture  equals  or  exceeds  its  interests  in  the 
joint ventures (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment 
in  the  joint  ventures),  the  Group  does  not  recognise  further  losses,  unless  it  has  incurred  obligations  or  made 
payments on behalf of the joint ventures.

Unrealised  gains  on  transactions  between  the  Group  and  its  joint  ventures  are  eliminated  to  the  extent  of  the 
Group’s interest in the joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence 
of an impairment of the asset transferred.

(d)  Associated companies

Associated  companies  are  all  entities  over  which  the  Group  has  significant  influence  but  not  control,  generally 
accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associated companies 
are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investments 
in associated companies includes goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) identified on acquisition.

If  the  ownership  interest  in  an  associate  is  reduced  but  significant  influence  is  retained,  only  a  proportionate 
share of the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where 
appropriate.

The Group’s share of its associated companies’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the consolidated 
profit  and  loss  account,  and  its  share  of  post-acquisition  movements  in  reserves  is  recognised  in  reserves.  The 
cumulative  post-acquisition  movements  are  adjusted  against  the  carrying  amount  of  the  investment.  When  the 
Group’s share of losses in an associated company equals or exceeds its interest in the associated company, including 
any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or 
made payments on behalf of the associated company.

Profits  and  losses  resulting  from  upstream  and  downstream  transactions  between  the  Group  and  its  associated 
companies  are  recognised  in  the  Group’s  financial  statements  only  to  the  extent  of  unrelated  investor’s  interests 
in  the  associated  companies.  Unrealised  losses  are  also  eliminated  unless  the  transaction  provides  evidence  of 
an  impairment  of  the  asset  transferred.  Accounting  policies  of  associated  companies  have  been  changed  where 
necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.

2.3  Property, plant and equipment

All property,  plant  and equipment  are  stated  at  historical cost less  depreciation and impairment losses. Historical cost 
includes  expenditure  that  is  directly  attributable  to  the  acquisition  of  the  items.  Subsequent  costs  are  included  in  the 
asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic 
benefits  associated  with  the  item  will  flow  to  the  Group  and  the  cost  of  the  item  can  be  measured  reliably.  All  other 
repairs  and  maintenance  are  charged  to  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  during  the  financial  period  in  which 
they are incurred.

No depreciation is provided for assets under construction and freehold land.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

104

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.3  Property, plant and equipment (Continued)

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their 
residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows:

Container vessels
Containers and Chassis
Terminal equipment and improvement
Freehold buildings
Leasehold buildings
Leasehold improvement
Furniture, vehicles, computer and other equipment

25 years
10 to 12 years
3 to 15 years
Not exceeding 75 years
Over period of the lease
Over period of the lease or 5 years whichever is lower
3 to 15 years

The  residual  values  of  the  assets  and  their  useful  lives  are  reviewed  and  adjusted  if  appropriate,  at  each  balance  sheet 
date.

The carrying amount of an asset is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount of the 
asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.

Gains  and  losses  on  disposals  are  determined  as  the  difference  between  the  net  disposal  proceeds  and  the  carrying 
amounts of the assets and are dealt with in the consolidated profit and loss account.

2.4  Investment property

Property  that  is  held  for  long-term  rental  yields  or  for  capital  appreciation  or  both,  and  that  is  not  occupied  by  the 
companies  in  the  Group,  is  classified  as  investment  property.  Investment  property  comprises  freehold  land,  land  held 
under  operating  leases  and  buildings  held  under  finance  leases.  Land  held  under  operating  leases  are  classified  and 
accounted for as investment property when the rest of the definition of investment property is met. The operating lease 
is accounted for as if it were a finance lease.

Investment  property  is  initially  measured  at  cost,  including  related  transaction  costs  and  where  applicable  borrowing 
costs. After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair value. Fair value is based on valuation carried out 
semi-annually by an independent external valuer. Changes in fair values are recognised in the consolidated profit and 
loss account.

2.5  Vessel repairs and surveys

Upon  acquisition  of  a  vessel,  the  components  of  the  vessel  which  are  required  to  be  replaced  at  the  next  dry-docking 
are  identified  and  their  costs  are  depreciated  over  the  period  to  the  next  estimated  dry-docking  date,  usually  ranging 
from three to five years. Costs incurred on subsequent dry-docking of vessels are capitalised and depreciated over the 
period to the next estimated dry-docking date. When significant dry-docking costs incurred prior to the expiry of the 
depreciation period, the remaining costs of the previous dry-docking are written off immediately.

2.6  Intangible assets

(a)  Goodwill

Goodwill  represents  the  excess  of  the  cost  of  an  acquisition  over  the  fair  value  of  the  Group’s  share  of  the 
net  identifiable  assets  of  the  acquired  subsidiary,  associated  company  or  joint  ventures  at  the  effective  date  of 
acquisition.

Goodwill on acquisition of a foreign operation is treated as an asset of the foreign operation.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

105105

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.6  Intangible assets (Continued)

(a)  Goodwill (Continued)

Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiaries is retained at the carrying amount as an intangible asset. Goodwill 
arising  on  acquisition  of  associated  companies  and  joint  ventures  is  included  within  investments  in  associated 
companies  and  joint  ventures  respectively  and  is  tested  for  impairment  as  part  of  overall  balance.  Separately 
recognised  goodwill  is  subject  to  impairment  review  annually  and  when  there  are  indications  that  the  carrying 
value  may  not  be  recoverable.  If  the  cost  of  acquisition  is  less  than  the  fair  value  of  the  Group’s  share  of  the  net 
identifiable assets of the acquired company, the difference is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

(b)  Computer software

Costs  associated  with  maintaining  computer  software  programmes  are  recognised  as  an  expense  as  incurred. 
Costs  that  are  directly  associated  with  the  production  of  identifiable  and  unique  software  products  controlled  by 
the  Group,  and  that  will  probably  generate  economic  benefits  exceeding  costs  beyond  one  year,  are  recognised 
as  intangible  assets.  Direct  costs  include  the  software  development  employee  costs  and  an  appropriate  portion  of 
relevant overheads.

Computer  software  costs  recognised  as  assets  are  stated  at  cost  less  accumulated  amortisation.  Amortisation  is 
calculated on the straight-line basis over their estimated useful life of five years.

2.7  Impairment of investments in subsidiaries and non-financial assets

Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation, and are at least tested annually for impairment. 
Assets  that  are  subject  to  amortisation  are  reviewed  for  impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which 
the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value 
of an asset less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest 
levels  for  which  there  are  separately  identifiable  cash  flows  (cash  generating  units).  Non-financial  assets  other  than 
goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.

Impairment  testing  of  the  investments  in  subsidiaries  is  required  upon  receiving  dividends  from  these  investments  if 
the dividend exceeds the total comprehensive income of the subsidiary in the period the dividend is declared or if the 
carrying  amount  of  the  investment  in  the  separate  account  exceeds  the  carrying  amount  in  the  consolidated  financial 
statements of the investee’s net assets including goodwill.

2.8  Investments

The  Group  classifies  its  investments  into  the  following  categories:  portfolio  investments,  loans  and  receivables,  held-
to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which the 
investments  were  acquired.  Management  determines  the  classification  of  its  investments  at  initial  recognition  and  re-
evaluates this designation at every reporting date.

(a)  Portfolio investments

Portfolio investments include financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through profit or 
loss at inception. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in 
the short term or if so designated by management. Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are 
either held for trading or are expected to be realised within 12 months from the balance sheet date.

(b)  Loans and receivables

Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted 
in an active market. They arise when the Group provides money or services directly to a debtor with no intention 
of trading the receivable. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the 
balance sheet date; which are classified as non-current assets.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

106

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.8  Investments (Continued)

(c)  Held-to-maturity investments

Held-to-maturity  investments  are  non-derivative  financial  assets  with  fixed  or  determinable  payments  and  fixed 
maturities  that  the  Group’s  management  has  the  positive  intention  and  ability  to  hold  to  maturity.  If  the  Group 
were  to  sell  other  than  an  insignificant  amount  of  held-to-maturity  investments,  the  whole  category  would  be 
reclassified as available-for-sale financial assets. Held-to-maturity investments are included in non-current assets, 
except  for  those  with  maturities  less  than  12  months  from  the  balance  sheet  date;  which  are  classified  as  current 
assets.

(d)  Available-for-sale financial assets

Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in 
any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the 
investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.

Interest  on  available-for-sale  financial  assets  calculated  using  the  effective  interest  method  is  recognised  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account as part of other income. Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are 
recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account as part of “other operating income” when the Group’s right 
to receive payments is established.

(e)  Recognition and measurement

Regular  way  purchases  and  sales  of  investments  are  recognised  on  trade-date  –  the  date  on  which  the  Group 
commits  to  purchase  or  sell  the  asset.  Investments  are  initially  recognised  at  fair  value  plus  transaction  costs  for 
all  financial  assets  not  carried  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss.  Investments  are  derecognised  when  the  rights 
to  receive  cash  flows  from  the  investments  have  expired  or  have  been  transferred  and  the  Group  has  transferred 
substantially  all  risks  and  rewards  of  ownership.  Available-for-sale  financial  assets  and  portfolio  investments  are 
subsequently carried at fair value. Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method less impairment losses, if any.

Realised  and  unrealised  gains  and  losses  arising  from  changes  in  the  fair  value  of  the  portfolio  investments  are 
included in the consolidated profit and loss account in the period in which they arise. Unrealised gains and losses 
arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets are 
recognised in other comprehensive income. When securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets are sold 
or  impaired,  the  accumulated  fair  value  adjustments  are  included  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  as 
gains and losses from available-for-sale financial assets.

The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices. If the market for a financial asset is not active 
(and for unlisted securities), the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques. These include the use 
of recent arm’s length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash 
flow analysis, and option pricing models refined to reflect the issuer’s specific circumstances.

The  Group  may  choose  to  reclassify  a  non-derivative  trading  financial  asset  out  of  the  portfolio  investments 
category  if  the  financial  asset  is  no  longer  held  for  the  purpose  of  selling  it  in  the  near  term.  Financial  assets 
other  than  loans  and  receivables  are  permitted  to  be  reclassified  out  of  the  held  for  trading  category  only  in  rare 
circumstances arising from a single event that is unusual and highly unlikely to recur in the near term. In addition, 
the  Group  may  choose  to  reclassify  financial  assets  that  would  meet  the  definition  of  loans  and  receivables  or 
held-to-maturity investments out of the portfolio investments or available-for-sale financial assets categories if the 
Group has the intention and ability to hold these financial assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity at the 
date of reclassification.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

107107

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.8  Investments (Continued)

(e)  Recognition and measurement (Continued)

Reclassifications  are  made  at  fair  value  as  of  the  reclassification  date.  Fair  value  becomes  the  new  cost  or 
amortised cost as applicable, and no reversals of fair value gains or losses recorded before reclassification date are 
subsequently  made.  Effective  interest  rates  for  financial  assets  reclassified  to  loans  and  receivables  and  held-to-
maturity categories are determined at the reclassification date. Further increases in estimates of cash flows adjust 
effective interest rates prospectively.

The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group 
of  financial  assets  is  impaired.  In  the  case  of  equity  securities  classified  as  available-for-sale  financial  assets,  a 
significant  or  prolonged  decline  in  the  fair  value  of  the  securities  below  its  cost  is  considered  in  determining 
whether  the  securities  are  impaired.  If  any  such  evidence  exists  for  available-for-sale  financial  assets,  the 
cumulative  loss  measured  as  the  difference  between  the  acquisition  cost  and  the  current  fair  value,  less  any 
impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account is removed 
from  equity  and  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account.  Impairment  losses  recognised  in  the 
consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  on  equity  instruments  are  not  reversed  through  the  consolidated  profit  and 
loss account.

Impairment  on  held-to-maturity  investments  is  considered  at  both  an  individual  and  collective  level.  The 
individual  impairment  allowance  is  measured  as  the  difference  between  the  asset’s  carrying  amount  and  the 
present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at asset’s original effective interest rate, where the effect of 
discounting is material.

For loans and receivables category, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount  and  the  present  value  of  estimated  future  cash  flows  (excluding  future  credit  losses  that  have  not  been 
incurred)  discounted  at  the  financial  asset’s  original  effective  interest  rate.  The  carrying  amount  of  the  asset  is 
reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account. If a loan or held-to-
maturity investment has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current 
effective interest rate determined under the contract. As a practical expedient, the Group may measure impairment 
on the basis of an instrument’s fair value using an observable market price.

(f)  Offsetting financial instruments

Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the consolidated balance sheet when there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or 
realise  the  asset  and  settle  the  liability  simultaneously.  The  legally  enforceable  right  must  not  be  contingent  on 
future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or 
bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty.

2.9  Inventories

Inventories mainly comprise bunkers and consumable stores. Cost is calculated on weighted average basis. Inventories 
are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

108

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.10 Debtors

Debtors  are  recognised  initially  at  fair  value  and  subsequently  measured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective  interest 
method,  less  provision  for  impairment.  A  provision  for  impairment  of  debtors  is  established  when  there  is  objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. The 
amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future 
cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The amount of the provision is recognised in the consolidated profit 
and loss account.

If collection of debtors is expected in one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they 
are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets.

2.11 Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks with original maturities of three months 
or less.

2.12 Share capital

Ordinary shares are classified as equity.

Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the 
proceeds.

2.13 Creditors

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business 
from suppliers. Creditors are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal 
operating cycle of the business if longer. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.

Trade  creditors  are  recognised  initially  at  fair  value  and  subsequently  measured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective 
interest method.

2.14 Borrowings

Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at 
amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in 
the consolidated profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.

Borrowings  are  classified  as  current  liabilities  unless  the  Group  has  an  unconditional  right  to  defer  settlement  of  the 
liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.

Fees  paid  on  the  establishment  of  loan  facilities  are  recognised  as  transaction  costs  of  the  loan  to  the  extent  that  it 
is  probable  that  some  or  all  of  the  facility  will  be  drawn  down.  In  this  case,  the  fee  is  deferred  until  the  draw-down 
occurs. To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is 
capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

109109

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.15 Current and deferred taxation

The tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss 
account, except to the extent that it relates to item recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In 
this case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.

The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet  date  in  the  countries  where  the  Company’s  subsidiaries,  joint  ventures  and  associated  companies  operate  and 
generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in 
which  applicable  tax  regulation  is  subject  to  interpretation.  It  establishes  provisions  where  appropriate  on  the  basis  of 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.

Deferred taxation is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases 
of  assets  and  liabilities  and  their  carrying  amounts  in  the  consolidated  financial  statements.  However,  if  the  deferred 
taxation arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at 
the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred taxation 
is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected 
to apply when the related deferred taxation asset is realised or the deferred taxation liability is settled.

Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be utilised.

Deferred taxation is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associated companies and 
joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is 
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities related to income taxes levied by the 
same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the 
balances on a net basis.

2.16 Employee benefits

(a)  Pension obligations

The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension and retirement benefit schemes 
in  the  main  countries  in  which  the  Group  operates.  These  schemes  are  generally  funded  by  payments  from 
employees and by relevant group companies, taking into account of the recommendations of independent qualified 
actuaries where required.

A  defined  benefit  plan  is  a  pension  plan  that  is  not  a  defined  contribution  plan.  Typically  defined  benefit  plans 
define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more 
factors such as age, years of service and compensation.

The liability recognised in the consolidated balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present 
value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit 
obligation  is  calculated  annually  by  independent  actuaries  using  the  projected  expected  benefit  payments.  The 
present  value  of  the  defined  benefit  obligation  is  determined  by  discounting  the  estimated  future  cash  outflows 
using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will 
be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. In countries 
where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

110

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.16 Employee benefits (Continued)

(a)  Pension obligations (Continued)

The  current  service  cost  of  the  defined  benefit  plan,  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  in 
employee benefit expense, except where included in the cost of an asset, reflects the increase in the defined benefit 
obligation results from employee service in the current year, benefit changes, curtailments and settlements.

Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the consolidated profit and loss account.

The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation 
and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in the consolidated profit and 
loss account.

Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or 
credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.

Contributions under the defined contribution schemes are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are 
due and are reduced by contributions forfeited by those employees who leave the scheme prior to vesting fully in 
the contributions. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in 
the future payments is available.

(b)  Bonus plans

The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses, based on a formula that takes into consideration the 
profit  attributable  to  the  Company’s  shareholders  after  certain  adjustments.  The  Group  recognises  a  provision 
where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.

(c)  Employee leave entitlements

Employee  entitlements  to  annual  leave  are  recognised  when  they  accrue  to  employees.  A  provision  is  made  for 
the estimated liability for annual leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the balance sheet date. 
Employee entitlements to sick leave and maternity leave are not recognised until the time of leave.

2.17 Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated.

Where  there  are  a  number  of  similar  obligations,  the  likelihood  that  an  outflow  will  be  required  in  settlement  is 
determined  by  considering  the  class  of  obligations  as  a  whole.  A  provision  is  recognised  even  if  the  likelihood  of  an 
outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.

2.18 Insurance contracts

The Company regards its financial guarantees provided to its subsidiaries as insurance contracts. The Company initially 
and subsequently assesses at each balance sheet date the liabilities under its insurance contracts using current estimates 
of  future  cash  flows.  Changes  in  carrying  amount  of  these  insurance  liabilities  are  recognised  in  the  profit  and  loss 
account.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

111111

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.19 Segment information

Operating  segments  are  reported  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the  internal  reporting  provided  to  the  chief  operating 
decision-maker.  The  chief  operating  decision-maker,  who  is  responsible  for  allocating  resources  and  assessing 
performance of the operating segments and making strategic decisions, has been identified as the Board of Directors.

2.20 Foreign currency translation

(a)  Functional and presentation currency

Items  included  in  the  financial  statements  of  each  of  the  Group’s  entities  are  measured  using  the  currency  of 
the  primary  economic  environment  in  which  the  entity  operates  (the  “functional  currency”).  The  consolidated 
financial  statements  are  presented  in  US  dollar,  which  is  the  Company’s  functional  currency  and  the  Group’s 
presentation currency.

(b)  Transactions and balances

Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and 
from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Changes  in  the  fair  value  of  debt  securities  denominated  in  foreign  currency  classified  as  available  for  sale  are 
analysed  between  translation  differences  resulting  from  changes  in  the  amortised  cost  of  the  security  and  other 
changes  in  the  carrying  amount  of  the  security.  Translation  differences  related  to  changes  in  amortised  cost  are 
recognised in profit or loss, and other changes in carrying amount are recognised in other comprehensive income.

Translation  differences  on  non-monetary  items,  such  as  equities  held  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss,  are 
reported  as  part  of  the  fair  value  gain  or  loss.  Translation  differences  on  non-monetary  items,  such  as  equities 
classified as available-for-sale financial assets, are included in the assets revaluation reserve in other comprehensive 
income.

(c)  Group companies

The results and financial position of all the group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary 
economy)  that  have  a  functional  currency  different  from  the  presentation  currency  are  translated  into  the 
presentation currency as follows:

(i)  assets  and  liabilities  for  each  balance  sheet  presented  are  translated  at  the  closing  rate  at  the  date  of  that 

balance sheet;

(ii) 

income  and  expenses  for  each  profit  and  loss  account  are  translated  at  average  exchange  rates  (unless 
this  average  is  not  a  reasonable  approximation  of  the  cumulative  effect  of  the  rates  prevailing  on  the 
transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rates prevailing on the dates of the 
transactions); and

(iii)  all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

112

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.20 Foreign currency translation (Continued)

(c)  Group companies (Continued)

On  consolidation,  exchange  differences  arising  from  the  translation  of  the  net  investment  in  foreign  entities, 
and  of  borrowings  and  other  currency  instruments  designated  as  hedges  of  such  investments,  are  taken  to  other 
comprehensive  income.  When  a  foreign  operation  is  sold,  such  exchange  differences  are  recognised  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account as part of the gain or loss on sale.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities 
of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.

2.21 Revenue recognition

Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of services, net of value-added 
tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. The Group recognises revenue when the amount 
of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity and when specific 
criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities as described below. Revenue is recognised as follows:

(a)  Freight revenues from the operation of the container transport are recognised on a percentage of completion basis, 

which is determined on the time proportion method of each individual vessel voyage.

(b)  Revenues from logistics business are recognised when services are rendered or on an accrual basis.

(c)  Revenues from the operation of container terminals and provision of other services are recognised when services 

are rendered or on an accrual basis.

(d)  Rental income under operating leases is recognised over the periods of the respective leases on a straight-line basis.

(e) 

Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.

(f)  Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.

2.22 Leases

(a)  Operating lease

Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified 
as  operating  leases.  Payments  made  under  operating  leases,  net  of  any  incentives  received  from  the  lessor,  are 
charged to the consolidated profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.

The up-front prepayments made for the leasehold land and land use rights are expensed in the consolidated profit 
and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease or where there is impairment, the impairment 
is expensed in the consolidated profit and loss account.

(b)  Finance lease

Leases of assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance 
leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased assets 
and  the  present  value  of  the  minimum  lease  payments.  Each  lease  payment  is  allocated  between  the  liability  and 
finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the balance outstanding. The corresponding rental obligations, 
net  of  finance  charges,  are  included  in  current  and  non-current  borrowings.  The  interest  element  of  the  finance 
cost  is  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  over  the  lease  period  so  as  to  produce  a  constant 
periodic rate of interest on the remaining balances of the liability for each period.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

113113

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

2.23 Borrowing costs

Borrowing  costs  are  expensed  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  in  the  period  in  which  they  are  incurred, 
except to the extent that they are capitalised as being directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production 
of a qualifying asset which necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale.

The  capitalisation  of  borrowing  costs  as  part  of  the  cost  of  a  qualifying  asset  commences  when  expenditure  for  the 
asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for its 
intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the 
activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.

2.24 Derivative financial instruments

Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and 
are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. Changes in fair value are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss 
account.

2.25 Dividend distribution

Dividend distribution to the Company’s equity holders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in 
the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s Directors/equity holders.

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

3.1  Financial risk factors

The  Group’s  activities  expose  it  to  a  variety  of  financial  risks:  foreign  exchange  risk,  price  risk,  credit  risk,  liquidity 
risk  and  cash  flow  and  fair  value  interest  rate  risk.  The  Group’s  overall  risk  management  policy  focuses  on  the 
unpredictability  of  financial  markets  and  seeks  to  minimise  potential  adverse  effects  on  the  Group’s  financial 
performance.

The  Group  has  regularly  monitored  current  and  expected  liquidity  requirements  against  the  cash  on  hand,  expected 
net  operating  cash  flow,  committed  facilities  and  its  compliance  with  loan  covenants,  to  ensure  the  Group’s  liquidity 
requirements can be met in the short and longer term.

The Group has paid ongoing attention on credit quality of counterparties, in particular major customers and financial 
institutions with relationship in terms of debt securities, derivatives and cash transactions. Credit qualities of respective 
counterparties are disclosed in respective notes to the consolidated financial statements.

(a)  Foreign exchange risk

The  Group  operates  internationally  and  is  exposed  to  foreign  exchange  risk  arising  from  various  currency 
exposures, primarily with respect to fluctuation in the exchange rates of foreign currencies to the US dollar. Foreign 
currency exposures are covered by forward contracts and options whenever appropriate.

Income and expenses from container transport and logistics activities are mainly denominated in US dollar and in 
various currencies, mainly including Euro, Canadian dollar, Japanese yen and Renminbi.

To  limit  currency  exposure,  the  US  dollar  based  activities  are  financed  primarily  by  loans  in  US  dollar.  With  all 
other  variables  held  constant,  an  average  change  in  the  US  dollar  exchange  rate  of  1%,  compared  with  all  other 
non-US  dollar  related  currencies,  has  a  positive/negative  effect  on  the  results  for  2017  of  approximately  US$3.5 
million (2016: US$3.9 million).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

114

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.1  Financial risk factors (Continued)

(b)  Price risk

The  container  transport  and  logistics  activities  are  sensitive  to  economic  fluctuations.  The  Group  is  exposed  to 
freight  rate  risk.  The  Group’s  revenue  will  increase/decrease  by  US$53.1  million  (2016:  US$45.4  million)  for  1% 
increase/reduction of the average container freight rates with all other variables held constant.

The  Group  is  exposed  to  bunker  price  risk  for  its  container  transport  and  logistics  activities.  Bunker  cost  is  one 
of the major cost components of container transport and logistics activities. To manage its price risk arising from 
bunker, the Group enters into bunker price derivative contracts. An increase in bunker price can only be partially 
compensated  through  freight  surcharge  bunker  price  adjustment.  With  all  other  variables  held  constant,  the 
operating cost will be increased by approximately US$2.0 million (2016: US$1.8 million) for one US dollar increase 
in bunker price per ton.

The  Group  is  also  exposed  to  equity/debt  securities  price  risk  because  of  investments  held  by  the  Group  include 
available-for-sale  financial  assets  or  portfolio  investments  which  are  accounted  at  fair  value.  To  manage  its  price 
risk  arising  from  investments  in  equity/debt  securities,  the  Group  diversifies  its  portfolio.  If  the  prices  of  the 
respective quoted equity/debt securities of the Group had been increased/decreased by 1% and all other variables 
held constant, the profit after taxation and the other comprehensive income of the Group for the year ended 31st 
December  2017  would  increase/decrease  by  US$2.9  million  (2016:  US$3.2  million)  and  US$nil  (2016:  US$0.6 
million)  respectively  as  a  result  of  the  changes  in  fair  value  of  equity/debt  securities  under  portfolio  investments 
and equity securities classified as available-for-sale.

(c)  Credit risk

The  Group  has  no  significant  concentrations  of  credit  risk.  It  has  policies  in  place  to  ensure  that  services  are 
provided to customers with an appropriate credit history.

The  extent  of  the  Group’s  credit  exposure  is  represented  by  the  aggregate  balance  of  cash  and  bank  balances, 
portfolio investments, held-to-maturity investments, derivative financial instruments, restricted bank balances and 
trade receivables. The credit quality of these exposures is disclosed in relevant notes to the consolidated financial 
statements.

(d)  Liquidity risk

Prudent  liquidity  risk  management  implies  maintaining  sufficient  cash  and  cash  equivalents,  the  availability  of 
funding  through  an  adequate  amount  of  committed  credit  facilities  and  the  ability  to  close  out  market  positions. 
The  Group  aims  to  maintain  flexibility  in  funding  by  keeping  sufficient  cash  and  cash  equivalents  and  readily 
realisable liquid assets.

Surplus  cash  held  by  the  operating  entities  over  and  above  balance  required  for  working  capital  management  is 
transferred to the Group Treasury. Group Treasury invests surplus cash in interest bearing current accounts, time 
deposits,  money  market  deposits  and  marketable  securities,  choosing  instruments  with  appropriate  maturities 
or  sufficient  liquidity  to  provide  sufficient  head-room.  At  the  reporting  date,  the  Group  held  liquid  assets  of 
US$2,235.7  million  (2016:  US$2,008.9  million)  that  are  expected  to  readily  generate  cash  inflows  for  managing 
liquidity risk.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

115115

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.1  Financial risk factors (Continued)

(d)  Liquidity risk (Continued)

The  table  below  analyses  the  Group’s  non-derivative  financial  liabilities  and  net-settled  derivative  financial 
liabilities  into  relevant  maturity  groupings  based  on  the  remaining  period  at  the  balance  sheet  date  to  the 
contractual  maturity  date.  The  amounts  disclosed  in  the  table  are  the  contractual  undiscounted  cash  flows. 
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.

US$’000

At 31st December 2017
Borrowings
Other non-current liabilities
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to joint ventures

At 31st December 2016
Borrowings
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to joint ventures

(e)  Cash flow interest rate risk

Less than
1 year

Between 1
and 2 years

Between 2
and 5 years

740,200
–
740,260
7,526

695,212
695,897
10,712

609,937
1,317
–
–

615,892
–
–

Over
5 years

1,692,884
4,285
–
–

2,044,341
6,026
–
–

1,783,751
–
–

1,377,205
–
–

The  Group’s  income  and  operating  cash  flows  are  substantially  independent  of  changes  in  market  interest  rates. 
The Group has a policy to place surplus funds with creditable financial institutions which offer the best return for 
the Group on a short-term basis.

The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk through the impact of rate changes on interest bearing bank 
balances and borrowings.

At  31st  December  2017,  if  interest  rates  had  been  0.1%  higher/lower  with  all  other  variables  held  constant,  post-
tax profit for the year would have been US$1.8 million lower/higher (2016: post-tax loss would have been US$2.2 
million higher/lower), mainly as a result of higher/lower net interest expense on the net floating rate borrowings.

3.2  Capital risk management

The  Group’s  objectives  when  managing  capital  are  to  safeguard  the  Group’s  ability  to  continue  as  a  going  concern 
in  order  to  provide  returns  for  shareholders  and  benefits  for  other  stakeholders  and  to  maintain  an  optimal  capital 
structure to reduce the cost of capital.

In  order  to  maintain  or  adjust  the  capital  structure,  the  Group  may  adjust  the  amount  of  dividends  paid  to  equity 
holders, return capital to equity holders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.

Consistent  with  others  in  the  industry,  the  Group  monitors  capital  on  the  basis  of  the  gearing  ratio.  This  ratio  is 
calculated  as  net  debt  divided  by  total  equity.  Net  debt  is  calculated  as  total  borrowings  (including  “current  and  non-
current borrowings” as shown in the consolidated balance sheet) less restricted bank balances, cash and bank balances 
and portfolio investments.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

116

 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.2  Capital risk management (Continued)

The gearing ratios at 31st December 2017 and 2016 were as follows:

US$’000

Total borrowings (note 37)
Less: 

Restricted bank balances (note 24)
Cash and bank balances (note 34)
Portfolio investments (note 32)

Net debt

Total equity

Gearing ratio

2017

(4,554,183)
63,839
1,940,975
294,720

2016

(4,090,737)
1,426
1,625,676
322,927

(2,254,649)

(2,140,708)

4,682,513

4,519,286

0.48

0.47

The change in net debt position results primarily from the purchase of property, plant and equipment during the year.

3.3  Fair value estimation

The  financial  instruments  that  are  measured  in  the  consolidated  balance  sheet  at  fair  value,  require  disclosure  of  fair 
value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy:

•  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).

• 

Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
(that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2).

• 

Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).

The following table presents the Group’s financial assets and liability that are measured at fair value at 31st December 
2017 and 2016.

US$’000

Assets
Portfolio investments
– Equity securities
– Debt securities
– Funds and other investments
Derivative financial instruments
Available-for-sale financial assets

– Other investments

Total assets

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

2017

35,852
252,728
–
–

–

288,580

–
–
6,140
1,825

–

7,965

–
–
–
–

45,383

45,383

35,852
252,728
6,140
1,825

45,383

341,928

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

117117

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.3  Fair value estimation (Continued)

US$’000

Assets
Portfolio investments
– Equity securities
– Debt securities
– Funds and other investments
Derivative financial instruments
Available-for-sale financial assets

– Listed equity securities
– Other investments

Total assets

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

2016

36,720
280,445
–
–

60,259
–

377,424

–
–
5,762
2,097

–
–

7,859

–
–
–
–

–
32,889

32,889

36,720
280,445
5,762
2,097

60,259
32,889

418,172

There were no transfers among levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year.

The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet 
date. A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, 
industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market 
transactions on an arm’s length basis. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current 
bid price. These instruments are included in level 1. Instruments included in level 1 comprise portfolio investments and 
listed equity securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets.

The  fair  value  of  financial  instruments  that  are  not  traded  in  an  active  market  (for  example,  over-the-counter 
derivatives)  is  determined  by  using  valuation  techniques.  These  valuation  techniques  maximise  the  use  of  observable 
market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required 
to  fair  value  an  instrument  are  observable,  the  instrument  is  included  in  level  2.  Instruments  in  level  2  include  the 
derivative financial instruments.

If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.

Specific valuation techniques used to value level 2 and 3 financial instruments include:

•  Dealer quotes.

• 

The  fair  value  of  forward  foreign  exchange  contracts  is  determined  using  forward  exchange  rates  at  the  balance 
sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value.

•  Marketability discount rate derived from management’s judgement is applied to estimate the fair value of unlisted 

equity security classified as available-for-sale financial asset.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

118

 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

3.  FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

3.3  Fair value estimation (Continued)

There were no changes in valuation techniques during the year.

Instruments included in level 3 mainly comprise unlisted equity securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets.

The following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments.

US$’000

Opening balance
Currency translation adjustments
Additions
Fair value change recognised in other comprehensive income

Closing balance

2017

32,889
2
–
12,492

45,383

2016

52,036
–
229
(19,376)

32,889

4.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS

Estimates and judgements used in preparing the consolidated financial statements are continually evaluated and are based on 
historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances.

The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 
financial year are discussed below.

(a)  Income taxes

The  Group  is  subject  to  income  taxes  in  numerous  jurisdictions.  Significant  judgement  is  required  in  determining 
the  worldwide  provision  for  income  taxes.  There  are  many  transactions  and  calculations  for  which  the  ultimate  tax 
determination  is  uncertain  during  the  ordinary  course  of  business.  Where  the  final  tax  outcome  of  these  matters  is 
different  from  the  amounts  that  were  initially  recorded,  such  differences  will  impact  the  income  tax  and  deferred  tax 
provisions in the period in which such determination is made.

Recognition of deferred tax assets, which principally relate to tax losses, depends on the management’s expectation of 
future taxable profit that will be available against which tax losses can be utilised. The outcome of their actual utilisation 
may be different.

(b)  Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Management  determines  the  estimated  useful  lives  and  residual  values  for  the  Group’s  property,  plant  and  equipment 
and intangible assets. Management will revise the depreciation charge where useful lives and residual values are different 
from previously estimated.

Management  determines  the  estimated  useful  lives  and  related  depreciation  expenses  for  the  vessels  and  containers. 
Management  estimates  useful  lives  of  its  vessels  and  containers  by  reference  to  expected  usage  of  the  vessels  and 
containers,  expected  repair  and  maintenance,  and  technical  or  commercial  obsolescence  arising  from  changes  or 
improvements in the market. It could change significantly as a result of the changes of these factors.

Were  the  useful  lives  of  vessels  and  containers  to  differ  by  10%  from  management  estimates  with  all  other  variables 
held constant, it is estimated that depreciation expense would increase or decrease by approximately US$90.0 million or 
US$53.0 million respectively (2016: US$63.4 million or US$47.1 million respectively).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

119119

 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

4.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (CONTINUED)

(b)  Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (Continued)

Management  determines  the  residual  values  for  its  vessels  and  containers.  This  estimate  is  based  on  the  current 
scrap  values  of  steels  in  an  active  market  at  each  measurement  date  since  management  decides  to  dispose  of  the  fully 
depreciated vessels and containers as scrap steels. Depreciation expense would increase where the residual values are less 
than previously estimated values.

Were the residual values of vessels and containers to differ by 10% from management estimates with all other variables 
held constant, it is estimated that depreciation expense would increase or decrease by approximately US$10.3 million or 
US$10.6 million respectively (2016: US$11.6 million or US$11.5 million respectively).

(c)  Provision of operating costs

Operating  costs,  which  mainly  comprise  cargo  cost,  vessel  and  voyage  costs,  equipment  and  repositioning  costs  and 
terminal  operating  cost.  Invoices  in  relation  to  these  expenses  are  received  several  months  after  the  expenses  have 
been incurred. Consequently, recognition of accrued operating costs is based on the known services entered, pattern of 
historical cost as well as the estimated vendor tariff.

If the actual expenses of a voyage differ from the estimated expenses, this will have an impact on operating cost in future 
periods. Historically, the Group has not experienced significant deviation from the actual expenses.

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION

(a)  Revenue

US$’000

Container transport and logistics
Others

2017

6,078,192
30,158

6,108,350

2016

5,270,323
27,370

5,297,693

The principal activities of the Group are container transport and logistics.

Revenue comprises gross freight, charter hire, service and other income from the operation of the container transport 
and logistics and rental income from the investment property.

(b)  Segment information

The  principal  activities  of  the  Group  are  container  transport  and  logistics.  Container  transport  and  logistics  include 
global  containerised  shipping  services  in  major  trade  lanes,  covering  Trans-Pacific,  Trans-Atlantic,  Asia/Europe,  Asia/
Australia and Intra-Asia trades, and integrated services over the management and control of effective storage and flow 
of goods. In accordance with the Group’s internal financial reporting provided to the chief operating decision-makers, 
who  are  responsible  for  allocating  resources,  assessing  performance  of  the  operating  segments  and  making  strategic 
decisions, the reportable operating segments are container transport and logistics and others. The executive directors are 
the Group’s chief operating decision makers.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

120

 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

Operating segments

The segment results for the year ended 31st December 2017 are as follows:

Others

Elimination

Group

US$’000

Revenue

Operating profit
Finance costs (note 12)
Share of profits of joint ventures (note 19)
Share of profits of associated companies (note 20)

Profit before taxation
Taxation (note 13)

Profit/(loss) for the year

Fair value gain from an investment property
Capital expenditure
Depreciation
Amortisation

Container 
transport 
and logistics

6,078,192

86,311
(101,215)
5,177
13,957

4,230
(16,232)

30,619

145,859
–
–
–

145,859
3,799

(12,002)

149,658

–
612,126
428,482
11,342

43,436
6,564
–
–

(461)

6,108,350

–
–
–
–

–
–

–

–
–
–
–

232,170
(101,215)
5,177
13,957

150,089
(12,433)

137,656

43,436
618,690
428,482
11,342

The segment results for the year ended 31st December 2016 are as follows:

US$’000
Revenue

Operating (loss)/profit
Finance costs (note 12)
Share of profits of joint ventures (note 19)
Share of profits of associated companies (note 20)

(Loss)/profit before taxation
Taxation (note 13)

(Loss)/profit for the year

Fair value gain from an investment property
Capital expenditure
Depreciation
Amortisation

Container 
transport 
and logistics

5,270,323

(202,529)
(79,393)
5,135
12,818

(263,969)
(9,645)

(273,614)

–
477,159
400,351
8,523

Others

27,986

64,302
–
–
–

64,302
(9,909)

54,393

18,522
1,478
–
–

Elimination

Group

(616)

5,297,693

–
–
–
–

–
–

–

–
–
–
–

(138,227)
(79,393)
5,135
12,818

(199,667)
(19,554)

(219,221)

18,522
478,637
400,351
8,523

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

121121

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

Operating segments (Continued)

The segment assets and liabilities at 31st December 2017 and 2016 are as follows:

US$’000
Segment assets
Joint ventures
Associated companies

Total assets

Segment liabilities

US$’000
Segment assets
Joint ventures
Associated companies

Total assets

Segment liabilities

Container 
transport 
and logistics

7,404,001
16,840
148,840

7,569,681

2017

Others

2,499,615
–
–

2,499,615

Group

9,903,616
16,840
148,840

10,069,296

(5,320,815)

(65,968)

(5,386,783)

Container 
transport 
and logistics

6,961,231
11,656
140,381

7,113,268

2016

Others

2,291,322
–
–

2,291,322

Group

9,252,553
11,656
140,381

9,404,590

(4,809,327)

(75,977)

(4,885,304)

The segment of “Others” primarily includes assets and liabilities of property and corporate level activities. Assets under 

the  segment  of  “Others”  consist  primarily  of  investment  property,  available-for-sale  financial  assets,  held-to-maturity 

investments  and  portfolio  investments  together  with  cash  and  bank  balances  that  are  managed  at  the  corporate  level. 

Liabilities  under  the  segment  of  “Others”  primarily  include  creditors  and  accruals  and  deferred  taxation  liabilities 

related to corporate level activities.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

122

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

5.  REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

Geographical information

The Group’s two reportable operating segments operate in four main geographical areas, even though they are managed 
on  a  worldwide  basis.  Freight  revenues  from  container  transport  and  logistics  are  analysed  based  on  the  outbound 
cargoes of each geographical territory.

The Group’s total assets mainly include container vessels and containers which are primarily utilised across geographical 
markets  for  shipment  of  cargoes  throughout  the  world.  Accordingly,  non-current  assets  by  geographical  areas  are  not 
presented.

US$’000

Year ended 31st December 2017

Asia
Europe
North America
Australia
Unallocated *

Year ended 31st December 2016

Asia
Europe
North America
Australia
Unallocated *

Revenue

4,262,323
868,912
812,183
164,932
–

6,108,350

3,614,076
732,317
788,826
162,474
–

5,297,693

* 

Unallocated capital expenditure comprises additions to vessels, dry-docking, containers and intangible assets.

6.  OPERATING COSTS

US$’000

Cargo
Vessel and voyage
Bunker cost
Equipment and repositioning

Investment property

2017

3,088,556
986,428
657,853
783,046

5,515,883
15,555

5,531,438

Capital 
expenditure

11,271
529
52,103
–
554,787

618,690

23,766
180
55,903
18
398,770

478,637

2016

2,930,530
935,145
435,238
715,711

5,016,624
15,648

5,032,272

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

123123

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

7.  OTHER OPERATING INCOME

US$’000

Income from available-for-sale financial assets

– Distribution
– Dividend income

Interest income from banks
Interest income from held-to-maturity investments
Portfolio investment income

– Interest income
– Distribution
– Dividend income

Others

8.  OTHER GAINS/(LOSSES), NET

US$’000

Fair value gain on portfolio investments (realised and unrealised)
Gain on bunker price derivative contracts
Net gain on interest rate swap contracts
Fair value gain on foreign exchange forward contracts
Profit/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Loss on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets
Gain/(loss) on disposal of held-to-maturity investments
Impairment on available-for-sale financial assets
Loss on disposal of intangible assets
Exchange gain/(loss)

9.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSE

US$’000

Wages and salaries

Pension and retirement benefits 

– Defined contribution plans (note 23)
– Defined benefit plans (note 23)

2017

–
21,182
24,616
11,041

10,954
606
1,187
2,496

72,082

2017

4,713
164
–
1,883
2,330
(192)
6,296
–
(6,690)
18,535

27,039

2017

545,456

28,914
1,555

575,925

2016

6,883
22,168
16,973
11,622

10,985
–
965
2,860

72,456

2016

3,658
3,364
56
3,191
(2,076)
(4,021)
(74)
(13,201)
–
(16,626)

(25,729)

2016

524,840

26,164
904

551,908

Employee  benefit  expenses  of  US$222.3  million  (2016:  US$213.3  million)  are  included  in  “operating  costs”  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

124

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

10.  DIRECTORS’ AND MANAGEMENT’S EMOLUMENTS

(a)  Directors’ emoluments

The remuneration of each Director is set out below:

Name of Director
US$’000

For the year ended  

31st December 2017

Mr. C C Tung
Prof. Roger King
Mr. Philip Chow
Mr. Andrew Tung
Mr. Alan Tung
Mr. Simon Murray
Prof. Richard Wong
Mr. Edward Cheng
Mr. Clement Kwok

Name of Director
US$’000

For the year ended  

31st December 2016

Mr. C C Tung
Prof. Roger King
Mr. Philip Chow
Mr. Andrew Tung
Mr. Alan Tung
Mr. Simon Murray
Prof. Richard Wong
Mr. Edward Cheng
Mr. Clement Kwok

Salary
and
benefits

Discre-
tionary
bonuses

Estimated
money value
of other
benefits *1

Employer’s
contribution
to provident
fund scheme

717
–
–
543
437
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

106
–
–
10
10
–
–
–
–

71
–
–
54
43
–
–
–
–

Salary
and
benefits

Discre-
tionary
bonuses

Estimated
money value
of other
benefits *1

Employer’s
contribution
to provident
fund scheme

691
–
–
523
421
–
–
–
–

113
–
–
86
68
–
–
–
–

94
–
–
10
10
–
–
–
–

80
–
–
61
49
–
–
–
–

Fees

107
60
97
–
–
51
85
51
51

Fees

107
60
66
–
–
32
47
32
32

Total

1,001
60
97
607
490
51
85
51
51

Total

1,085
60
66
680
548
32
47
32
32

The discretionary bonuses paid in 2016 relate to performance for year 2015.
*1  Other benefits include car related expenses and club membership.

None of the Directors has waived the right to receive their emoluments.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

125125

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

10.  DIRECTORS’ AND MANAGEMENT’S EMOLUMENTS (CONTINUED)

(b)  Five highest paid individuals

The five individuals whose emoluments were the highest in the Group for the year include three (2016: three) Directors 
whose  emoluments  are  reflected  in  the  analysis  presented  above.  The  emoluments  payable  to  the  remaining  two 
individuals (2016: two individuals) are as follows:

US$’000

Basic salaries, housing allowances, other allowances and benefits in kind
Discretionary bonuses
Estimated money value of other benefits
Pension costs – defined contribution plans

The emoluments of the five individuals fell within the following bands:

Emolument bands (US$)

448,701 ~ 512,800
512,801 ~ 576,900
576,901 ~ 641,000
641,001 ~ 705,100
961,501 ~ 1,025,600
1,025,601 ~ 1,089,700

(HK$3,500,001 ~ HK$4,000,000)
(HK$4,000,001 ~ HK$4,500,000)
(HK$4,500,001 ~ HK$5,000,000)
(HK$5,000,001 ~ HK$5,500,000)
(HK$7,500,001 ~ HK$8,000,000)
(HK$8,000,001 ~ HK$8,500,000)

(c)  Key management compensation

US$’000

Salaries and other employee benefits
Estimated money value of other benefits
Pension costs – defined contribution plans

2017

965
–
12
70

1,047

2016

909
147
9
76

1,141

Number of individuals

2017

2016

2
1
1
–
1
–

5

2017

4,756
152
439

5,347

–
2
1
1
–
1

5

2016

5,292
138
488

5,918

The  Group  usually  determines  and  pays  discretionary  bonuses  to  employees  (including  Directors)  around  April/May 
each  year  based  on  the  actual  financial  results  of  the  Group  for  the  preceding  year.  The  discretionary  bonuses  shown 
above  represent  actual  payments  to  the  Directors  and  individuals  during  the  current  financial  year  in  relation  to 
performance for the preceding year.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

126

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

11.  OPERATING PROFIT/(LOSS)

US$’000
Operating profit/(loss) is arrived at after crediting:

Operating lease rental income

Land and buildings

and after charging:
Depreciation

Owned assets
Leased assets

Operating lease rental expense

Vessels and equipment
Terminals and berths
Land and buildings

Rental outgoings in respect of an investment property
Amortisation of intangible assets
Amortisation of prepayments of lease premiums
Auditors’ remuneration

Audit
Non-audit

2017

2016

30,158

27,370

298,765
129,717

244,698
58,760
33,472
15,555
11,123
219

2,610
2,770

299,296
101,055

260,264
47,203
34,601
15,648
8,302
221

2,630
902

Operating  lease  rental  expenses  of  US$311.2  million  and  US$25.7  million  (2016:  US$316.4  million  and  US$25.7  million) 
respectively are included in “operating costs” and “business and administrative expenses” in the consolidated profit and loss 
account.

The non-audit remuneration paid to the Group’s auditor is inclusive of a one-off fee in respect of a non-recurring advisory 
project. Excluding this fee, the total fees paid to the Group’s auditor for non-audit services was less than 50% of the amount 
paid for audit services.

12.  FINANCE COSTS

US$’000
Interest expense

Bank loans and bank overdrafts
Finance lease obligations

Amount capitalised under assets

Net interest expense

2017

54,168
54,547

108,715
(7,500)

101,215

2016

47,506
37,070

84,576
(5,183)

79,393

The borrowing costs of the loans to finance the assets under construction (note 16) represent an average capitalisation rate of 
approximately 2.0% (2016: 1.8%) per annum.

13.  TAXATION

US$’000
Current taxation

Hong Kong profits tax
Overseas taxation

Deferred taxation

Hong Kong profits tax
Overseas taxation

2017

411
15,318

15,729

359
(3,655)

(3,296)

12,433

2016

78
10,533

10,611

108
8,835

8,943

19,554

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

127127

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

13.  TAXATION (CONTINUED)

Taxation  has  been  provided  at  the  appropriate  tax  rates  prevailing  in  the  countries  in  which  the  Group  operates  on  the 
estimated assessable profits for the year. These rates range from 13% to 46% (2016: 11% to 46%) and the rate applicable for 
Hong Kong profits tax is 16.5% (2016: 16.5%).

The associated companies in the People’s Republic of China enjoy preferential tax treatment.

The tax of the Group’s profit/(loss) before taxation differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the applicable 
tax rates, being the weighted average of rates prevailing in the territories in which the Group operates, as follows:

US$’000

Profit/(loss) before taxation
Share of profits of joint ventures
Share of profits of associated companies

Tax calculated at applicable tax rates
Income not subject to tax
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
Tax losses not recognised
Temporary differences not recognised
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses
Utilisation of previously unrecognised temporary differences
Recognition of previously unrecognised temporary differences
Withholding tax
Change in tax rates
Other items

2017

150,089
(5,177)
(13,957)

130,955

38,054
(284,335)
278,050
2,849
935
(1,359)
(946)
1,601
1,571
(22,876)
(1,111)

12,433

2016

(199,667)
(5,135)
(12,818)

(217,620)

(23,939)
(252,116)
289,495
3,227
755
(1,281)
(374)
–
3,320
167
300

19,554

14.  EARNINGS/(LOSS) PER ORDINARY SHARE

The  calculation  of  basic  and  diluted  earnings/(loss)  per  ordinary  share  is  based  on  the  Group’s  profit/(loss)  attributable  to 
equity holders of the Company divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.

The basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per ordinary share are the same since there are no potential dilutive shares.

US$’000

Number of ordinary shares in issue (thousands)

Group’s profit/(loss) attributable to:  
Equity holders of the Company

Earnings/(loss) per share attributable to equity holders  

of the Company (US cents)

15.  DIVIDENDS

US$’000

Interim paid: US2.14 cents (2016: nil) per ordinary share

The Board of Directors do not recommend a final dividend in respect of 2017 (2016: nil).

2017

625,793

2016

625,793

137,656

(219,221)

22.0

(35.0)

2017

13,388

2016

–

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

128

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

16.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Container 
vessels and 
capitalised 
dry-docking 
costs

Assets 
under 
construction

Containers 
and 
chassis

Terminal 
equipment 
and 
improvement

Freehold 
land and 
buildings 
outside 
Hong Kong

Buildings 
outside 
Hong Kong

Leasehold 
improvement 
and 
furniture

Vehicles, 
computer 
and other 
equipment

US$’000

Cost

At 31st December 2016
Currency translation adjustments
Additions
Reclassification
Disposals

4,970,230
–
18,091
810,893
(69,767)

727,511
–
340,505
(895,134)
–

2,196,392
61
227,934
–
(67,720)

482,066
–
2,054
84,241
(68,266)

At 31st December 2017

5,729,447

172,882

2,356,667

500,095

Accumulated depreciation
At 31st December 2016
Currency translation adjustments
Charge for the year
Disposals

At 31st December 2017

Net book amount

1,268,761
–
216,106
(69,615)

1,415,252

–
–
–
–

–

970,062
46
154,002
(63,791)

150,841
–
34,939
(68,006)

1,060,319

117,774

At 31st December 2017

4,314,195

172,882

1,296,348

382,321

At 31st December 2016

3,701,469

727,511

1,226,330

331,225

Net book amount of leased assets

At 31st December 2017

At 31st December 2016

Cost

At 31st December 2015
Currency translation adjustments
Additions
Reclassification
Disposals

2,549,229

1,890,435

4,964,814
–
15,683
–
(10,267)

–

–

109,391

120,513

716,396
–
303,646
(292,531)
–

2,114,951
(77)
107,711
–
(26,193)

91,301

98,192

180,430
–
9,807
292,531
(702)

At 31st December 2016

4,970,230

727,511

2,196,392

482,066

Accumulated depreciation
At 31st December 2015
Currency translation adjustments
Charge for the year
Disposals

At 31st December 2016

Net book amount

1,079,910
–
198,857
(10,006)

1,268,761

–
–
–
–

–

840,028
(69)
152,268
(22,165)

123,433
–
27,467
(59)

970,062

150,841

At 31st December 2016

3,701,469

727,511

1,226,330

331,225

At 31st December 2015

3,884,904

716,396

1,274,923

56,997

Net book amount of leased assets

At 31st December 2016

1,890,435

–

120,513

98,192

At 31st December 2015

1,788,072

105,940

131,430

73

7,005
170
–
–
–

7,175

2,948
127
75
–

3,150

4,025

4,057

–

–

6,992
13
–
–
–

7,005

2,835
7
106
–

2,948

4,057

4,157

–

–

46,701
2,813
27
–
–

59,237
1,902
1,170
–
(2,175)

145,574
1,890
15,471
–
(2,537)

Total

8,634,716
6,836
605,252
–
(210,465)

49,541

60,134

160,398

9,036,339

17,026
1,048
1,842
–

19,916

29,625

29,675

–

–

49,774
(3,113)
40
–
–

46,701

16,291
(1,021)
1,756
–

17,026

29,675

33,483

–

–

41,390
1,568
6,792
(2,098)

107,015
1,461
14,726
(2,383)

2,558,043
4,250
428,482
(205,893)

47,652

120,819

2,784,882

12,482

17,847

39,579

6,251,457

38,559

6,076,673

–

–

52,955
(1,606)
12,224
–
(4,336)

761

980

2,750,682

2,110,120

133,813
(1,643)
15,249
–
(1,845)

8,220,125
(6,426)
464,360
–
(43,343)

59,237

145,574

8,634,716

39,974
(1,210)
6,870
(4,244)

96,910
(1,242)
13,027
(1,680)

2,199,381
(3,535)
400,351
(38,154)

41,390

107,015

2,558,043

17,847

12,981

38,559

6,076,673

36,903

6,020,744

–

–

980

2,110,120

1,608

2,027,123

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

129129

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

16.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)

(a)  The  aggregate  net  book  amount  of  assets  pledged  as  security  for  bank  loans  amounts  to  US$2,597.8  million  (2016: 
US$2,785.5  million).  Specific  charges  on  vessels  of  the  Group  include  legal  mortgages  and  assignments  of  insurance 
claims and charter hire income relating to these vessels.

(b)  Interest  costs  of  US$7.5  million  (2016:  US$5.2  million)  during  the  year  were  capitalised  as  part  of  assets  under 

construction.

(c)  Depreciation charge of US$407.2 million (2016: US$380.3 million) for the year has been expensed in “operating costs” 

and US$21.3 million (2016: US$20.1 million) in business and administrative expenses.

(d)  As at 31st December 2017 and 2016, the buildings outside Hong Kong are held under medium-term leasehold land.

Property, plant and equipment include the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under finance leases:

US$’000

Cost – capitalised finance leases
Accumulated depreciation

Net book amount

2017

3,456,987
(706,305)

2,750,682

2016

2,669,690
(559,570)

2,110,120

The  Group  leases  various  container  vessels,  containers,  terminal  equipment  and  other  equipment  under  non-cancellable 
finance lease agreements for both years. The lease terms are between 5 and 25 years.

17.  INVESTMENT PROPERTY

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Additions

Fair value gain

Balance at end of year

2017

220,000
6,564

226,564
43,436

270,000

2016

200,000
1,478

201,478
18,522

220,000

Background and valuation processes of the Group

The  investment  property,  “Wall  Street  Plaza”,  is  a  commercial  property  located  at  88,  Pine  Street,  New  York,  USA.  The 
property is situated on three parcels of freehold land, all of which are wholly owned by the Group (2016: two of which are 
wholly  owned  by  the  Group,  and  freehold  interest  in  the  third  parcel,  representing  approximately  10%  of  the  site,  is  50% 
owned by the Group under a long-term lease to the Group expiring in the year 2066).

Valuation processes of the Group

The Group’s investment property was valued at 31st December 2017 by an independent professionally qualified valuer who 
holds a recognised relevant professional qualification. The Group’s finance department reviews the valuation performed by 
the  independent  valuer  for  financial  reporting  purposes.  This  team  reports  directly  to  the  Chief  Financial  Officer  “CFO”. 
Discussions  of  valuation  processes  and  results  are  held  between  the  CFO,  the  finance  team  and  the  valuer.  As  at  31st 
December 2017, the fair value of the property has been determined by Cushman & Wakefield, Inc.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

130

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

17.  INVESTMENT PROPERTY (CONTINUED)

Valuation techniques

Fair  value  of  the  investment  property  is  derived  by  using  the  discounted  cash  flow  method.  The  net  present  value  of  the 

income stream is estimated by applying an appropriate discount rate which reflects the risk profile.

There were no changes to the valuation techniques during the year.

Information about fair value measurement using significant unobservable inputs

Discount  rate  is  estimated  by  Cushman  &  Wakefield,  Inc.  based  on  the  risk  profile  of  the  property  being  valued.  If  the 

discount rate is higher, the fair value would be lower. At 31st December 2017, discount rate of 7.3% per annum (2016: 7.3% 

per annum) is used in the valuation.

Net  operating  income  growth  rates  of  3%  per  annum  (2016:  5%  per  annum)  for  the  second  and  third  years  and  3%  per 

annum (2016: 3% per annum) for the remaining years are used in the valuation. If the growth rate is higher, the fair value 

would be higher.

Prevailing market rents are estimated based on recent lettings of US$50 per sq ft to US$53 per sq ft (2016: US$44 per sq ft to 

US$46 per sq ft), within the subject property. If the rents are higher, the fair value would be higher.

18.  PREPAYMENTS OF LEASE PREMIUMS

The Group’s interests in leasehold land and land use rights represent prepaid operating lease payments for leases between 28 

and 42 years and their net book values are analysed as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Amortisation

Balance at end of year

2017

7,818
373
(219)

7,972

2016

8,462
(423)
(221)

7,818

Amortisation  of  US$0.2  million  (2016:  US$0.2  million)  is  included  in  “business  and  administrative  expenses”  in  the 

consolidated profit and loss account.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

131131

 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

19.  JOINT VENTURES

US$’000

Share of net assets

2017

10,833

2016

11,225

The Group’s share of assets, liabilities and results of the joint ventures are summarised below:

US$’000

Non-current assets
Current assets
Current liabilities

Share of net assets

Income
Expenses

Share of profits of joint ventures

Share of total comprehensive income of joint ventures

Particulars of the joint ventures at 31st December 2017 are shown on page 159.

20.  ASSOCIATED COMPANIES

US$’000

Share of net assets

2017

1,246
14,488
(4,901)

10,833

15,579
(10,402)

5,177

5,655

2016

95
13,526
(2,396)

11,225

15,319
(10,184)

5,135

3,968

2017

148,840

2016

137,527

The Group’s share of assets, liabilities and results of the associated companies are summarised as follows:

US$’000

Non-current assets
Current assets
Non-current liabilities
Current liabilities

Share of net assets

Income
Expenses

Share of profits of associated companies

Share of total comprehensive income of associated companies

Particulars of the associated companies at 31st December 2017 are shown on page 159.

2017

144,699
14,197
(69)
(9,987)

148,840

39,467
(25,510)

13,957

22,462

2016

142,764
14,528
(2,854)
(16,911)

137,527

41,543
(28,725)

12,818

3,642

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

132

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21.  INTANGIBLE ASSETS

US$’000

At 1st January 2016

Cost
Accumulated amortisation

Net book amount

Year ended 31st December 2016
Opening net book amount
Additions
Amortisation

Closing net book amount

At 31st December 2016

Cost
Accumulated amortisation

Net book amount

Year ended 31st December 2017
Opening net book amount
Additions
Disposal
Amortisation

Closing net book amount

At 31st December 2017

Cost
Accumulated amortisation

Net book amount

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

Computer 
software costs

168,079
(112,433)

55,646

55,646
12,799
(8,302)

60,143

180,878
(120,735)

60,143

60,143
6,874
(6,690)
(11,123)

49,204

145,389
(96,185)

49,204

Computer software costs mainly comprise internally generated capitalised software development costs.

Amortisation  of  US$11.1  million  (2016:  US$8.3  million)  is  included  in  “business  and  administrative  expenses”  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account.

The Group had written-off fully amortised intangible assets of US$35.7 million during the year (2016: nil).

22.  DEFERRED TAXATION ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets
Deferred taxation liabilities

2017

1,476
(65,221)

(63,745)

2016

4,227
(71,337)

(67,110)

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

133133

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

22.  DEFERRED TAXATION ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)

Deferred  taxation  assets  and  liabilities  are  offset  when  there  is  a  legal  right  to  set  off  current  taxation  assets  with  current 
taxation  liabilities  and  when  the  deferred  taxation  relates  to  the  same  taxation  authority.  The  above  assets/(liabilities) 
shown in the consolidated balance sheet are determined after appropriate offsetting of the relevant amounts and include the 
following:

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets to be recovered  

after more than twelve months

Deferred taxation liabilities to be settled  

after more than twelve months

2017

723

2016

3,240

(65,006)

(71,337)

Deferred  taxation  is  calculated  in  full  on  temporary  differences  under  the  liability  method  using  applicable  tax  rates 
prevailing in the countries in which the Group operates. The movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities (prior to 
offsetting of balances within the same taxation jurisdiction) during the year were as follows:

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets

At 31st December 2015
Currency translation adjustments
(Charged)/credited to consolidated profit 

and loss account

Credited to other comprehensive income

At 31st December 2016
Currency translation adjustments
(Charged)/credited to consolidated profit 

and loss account

At 31st December 2017

US$’000

Deferred taxation liabilities

At 31st December 2015
Currency translation adjustments
(Credited)/charged to consolidated profit 

and loss account

At 31st December 2016
(Credited)/charged to consolidated profit 

and loss account

At 31st December 2017

Accelerated 
accounting
depreciation

Pensions

Revenue
expenditure

Tax
losses

1,027
15

(494)
–

548
7

134

689

117
(20)

(271)
174

–
–

–

–

8,826
(14)

(1,913)
–

6,899
63

(3,043)

3,919

2,527
(48)

728
–

3,207
–

1,088

4,295

Accelerated
tax
depreciation

Revaluation
of investment
property

Revenue
expenditure

Undistributed
profits of
affiliates

5,950
(2)

(5,566)

382

1,296

1,678

61,903
–

7,326

69,229

(9,167)

60,062

2,920
–

3,189

6,109

2,477

8,586

–
–

2,044

2,044

278

2,322

Total

12,497
(67)

(1,950)
174

10,654
70

(1,821)

8,903

Total

70,773
(2)

6,993

77,764

(5,116)

72,648

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

134

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

22.  DEFERRED TAXATION ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)

Deferred  taxation  assets  of  US$31.6  million  (2016:  US$30.1  million)  arising  from  unused  tax  losses  of  US$146.8  million 
(2016: US$139.5 million) have not been recognised in the consolidated financial statements. Unused tax losses of US$101.6 
million  (2016:  US$112.9  million)  have  no  expiry  date  and  the  remaining  balance  will  expire  at  various  dates  up  to  and 
including 2037.

Deferred  taxation  liabilities  of  US$102.0  million  (2016:  US$93.1  million)  on  temporary  differences  associated  with 
investments  in  subsidiaries  of  US$430.4  million  (2016:  US$394.8  million)  have  not  been  recognised  as  there  is  no  current 
intention of remitting the retained profit of these subsidiaries to the holding companies in the foreseeable future.

23.  PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS

The  Group  operates  a  number  of  defined  benefit  and  defined  contribution  pension  and  retirement  schemes  in  the  main 
countries  in  which  the  Group  operates.  The  total  charges  to  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  for  the  year  were 
US$30.5 million (2016: US$27.1 million).

Defined contribution schemes

The  principal  defined  contribution  schemes  are  operated  in  Hong  Kong,  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  and  the  USA. 
These  schemes  cover  approximately  80%  of  the  Group’s  employees.  Contributions  to  the  defined  contribution  schemes, 
all  the  assets  of  which  are  held  in  trust  funds  separate  from  the  Group,  are  based  on  a  percentage  of  an  employee’s  salary, 
depending upon the length of service of the employee, but the Group’s contributions to certain schemes may be reduced by 
contributions forfeited by those employees who leave the schemes prior to vesting fully in those contributions.

In  2008,  the  Group  terminated  the  defined  benefit  scheme  and  post-retirement  medical  plans  in  the  USA  at  the  request  of 
the labour unions. All the pension assets and obligations were transferred to a defined benefit multi-employer pension plan 
and a defined benefit multi-employer post-retirement medical plan (the “Plans”) together with other industry players. Since 
the Group is not able to identify its share of the underlying financial position and performance of the Plans with sufficient 
reliability for accounting purposes, accordingly the Plans are accounted for by the Group as defined contribution plans.

The charges for the defined contribution schemes to the consolidated profit and loss account during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Contributions to the schemes
Forfeitures utilised

Defined benefit schemes

The amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are as follows:

US$’000

Funded scheme assets

Funded scheme liabilities
Unfunded scheme liabilities

Net scheme assets/(liabilities)

2017

29,006
(92)

28,914

2017

243

–
(38)

(38)

205

2016

26,755
(591)

26,164

2016

–

(11,782)
(75)

(11,857)

(11,857)

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

135135

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

23.  PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

Defined benefit schemes (Continued)

Net funded scheme assets/(liabilities)

The  principal  defined  benefit  scheme  is  operated  in  the  United  Kingdom  which  was  valued  by  Barnett  Waddingham  LLP. 
The defined benefit scheme (the “Scheme”) cover less than 1% of the Group’s employees and are funded. The assets of the 
Scheme  are  held  in  trust  funds  separate  from  the  Group.  Contributions  to  the  Scheme  are  assessed  in  accordance  with  the 
advice of qualified actuaries in compliance with local practice and regulations. The actuarial assumptions used to calculate 
the projected benefit obligations of the Group’s pension schemes vary according to the economic conditions of the countries 
in which they are situated.

The net scheme assets/(liabilities) of the Scheme recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are determined as follows:

US$’000
Fair value of plan assets
Present value of funded obligations

Surplus/(deficit) of funded plan

2017
220,490
(220,247)

243

2016
200,690
(212,472)

(11,782)

Movements in the fair value of the plan assets of the Scheme during the year are as follows:

US$’000
Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Interest income on plan assets
Remeasurement gain on assets
Contributions from the Group
Contributions from the plan members
Benefits paid

Balance at end of year

Movements in the present value of obligations of the Scheme during the year are as follows:

US$’000
Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Current service cost
Interest expense
Experience gains on liabilities
Gains from changes to demographic assumptions
Losses from changes to financial assumptions
Contributions from the plan members
Benefits paid

Balance at end of year

2017
200,690
19,116
5,420
6,781
3,074
94
(14,685)

220,490

2017
212,472
20,272
1,251
5,724
(2,233)
(5,293)
2,645
94
(14,685)

220,247

2016
226,692
(39,608)
7,565
14,382
2,813
74
(11,228)

200,690

2016
218,837
(38,354)
1,208
7,261
(1,727)
(782)
37,183
74
(11,228)

212,472

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

136

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

23.  PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

Defined benefit schemes (Continued)

Net funded scheme assets/(liabilities) (Continued)

The charges of the Scheme recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account are as follows:

US$’000
Current service cost
Interest expense
Interest income on plan assets

Net expense recognised for the year

2017
1,251
5,724
(5,420)

1,555

2016
1,208
7,261
(7,565)

904

Charges  of  US$1.6  million  (2016:  US$0.9  million)  were  included  in  “business  and  administrative  expenses”  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account.

The main actuarial assumptions made for the Scheme were as follows:

Discount rate
Inflation rate
Expected future salary increases
Expected future pension increases

2017

2.5%
3.4%
3.4%
2.6%

2016

2.6%
3.0%
3.5%
2.7%

Actual return on plan assets (US$’000)

12,201

(5,600)

At 31st December 2017, if discount rate had been 0.2% higher/lower, with all other variables held constant, the fair value of 
the funded obligations would have been US$6.2 million lower/US$6.5 million higher. At 31st December 2017, if inflation rate 
had been 0.1% higher/lower, with all other variables held constant, the fair value of the funded obligations would have been 
US$2.1  million  higher/US$2.0  million  lower.  The  sensitivities  show  the  likely  effect  of  a  single  assumption  being  adjusted 
while holding all other assumptions constant.

Plan assets of the Scheme comprise the following:

US$’000

Equity
Debt
Others

2017

2016

39,041
159,205
22,244

220,490

18%
72%
10%

100%

30,221
154,467
16,002

200,690

15%
77%
8%

100%

Expected  normal  and  deficit  reduction  contributions  to  the  Scheme  for  the  year  ending  31st  December  2018  is  US$3.1 
million.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

137137

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

23.  PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

Defined benefit schemes (Continued)

Net funded scheme assets/(liabilities) (Continued)

Through its defined benefit pension plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks as follows:

• 

• 

• 

Investment risk. The Scheme holds investments in asset classes, such as equities, which have volatile market values and 
while these assets are expected to provide real returns over the long-term, the short-term volatility can cause additional 
funding to be required if deficit emerges.

Interest rate and market risk. The Scheme’s liabilities are assessed using market yields on high quality corporate bonds 
to  discount  the  liabilities.  As  the  Scheme  holds  assets  such  as  equities,  the  value  of  the  assets  and  liabilities  may  not 
move in the same way.

Inflation risk. A significant proportion of the benefits under the Scheme are linked to inflation. Although the Scheme’s 
assets are expected to provide a good hedge against inflation over the long term, movements over the short-term could 
lead to deficits emerging.

• 

Longevity and other demographic risk. If members live longer than assumed, a deficit will emerge in the Scheme.

24.  RESTRICTED BANK BALANCES

US$’000

Non-current
Current

Restricted bank balances

2017

60,414
3,425

63,839

2016

403
1,023

1,426

As  at  31st  December  2017,  the  restricted  bank  balances  of  US$63.8  million  (2016:  US$1.4  million)  are  funds  pledged  as 
securities for banking facilities or required to be utilised for specific purposes.

The  carrying  amounts  of  the  Group’s  restricted  bank  balances  are  mainly  denominated  in  US  dollar  (2016:  New  Taiwan 
dollar).

The credit quality of restricted bank balances by reference to Standard & Poor’s, and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

AA
A
BBB

25.  AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Additions
Disposals
Change in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income

Balance at end of year

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

138

2017

1,709
62,128
2

63,839

2017

93,148
2
–
(60,259)
12,492

45,383

2016

386
1,037
3

1,426

2016

127,998
(2)
14,494
(21,330)
(28,012)

93,148

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

25.  AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS (CONTINUED)

Available-for-sale financial assets include the following:

US$’000

Market value of listed equity securities

Hong Kong

Unlisted equity security
Others

2017

–
44,200
1,183

45,383

The carrying amounts of the Group’s available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

Renminbi
Hong Kong dollar
Other currencies

26.  HELD-TO-MATURITY INVESTMENTS

US$’000

Listed debt securities

Hong Kong
Overseas

Less: Current portion included in current assets

Market value

Movements in held-to-maturity investments are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Additions
Disposals
Redemptions on maturity
Amortisation

Balance at end of year

2016

60,259
31,900
989

93,148

2016

92,189
817
142

93,148

2017

44,231
999
153

45,383

2017

2016

129,043
105,886

234,929
(17,040)

217,889

242,672

2017

236,917
2,317
78,627
(40,611)
(41,881)
(440)

234,929

141,912
95,005

236,917
(41,621)

195,296

249,984

2016

236,078
(8,952)
29,219
(4,122)
(14,950)
(356)

236,917

The carrying amounts of held-to-maturity investments are mainly denominated in US dollar (2016: US dollar).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

139139

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

26.  HELD-TO-MATURITY INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)

The  credit  quality  of  held-to-maturity  investments  by  reference  to  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s  credit  ratings  is  as 
follows:

US$’000

AAA
AA
A
BBB
BB
B
Non-ranking

2017

8,011
6,292
70,651
82,710
–
–
67,265

234,929

2016

9,517
6,789
58,793
101,258
4,908
8,280
47,372

236,917

The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is the carrying amount of held-to-maturity investments.

27.  OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS

US$’000

Other deposit
Others

28.  INVENTORIES

US$’000

Bunker
Consumable stores

29.  DEBTORS AND PREPAYMENTS

US$’000

Trade receivables
– Fully performing
– Past due but not impaired
– Impaired and provided for

Less: provision for impairment

Trade receivables – net
Other debtors
Other prepayments
Utility and other deposits

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

140

2017

28,405
12,458

40,863

2017

87,698
14,459

102,157

2016

19,891
12,200

32,091

2016

72,304
12,168

84,472

2017

2016

230,973
152,639
16,061

399,673
(16,061)

383,612
86,291
107,756
12,277

589,936

182,934
111,495
16,313

310,742
(16,313)

294,429
72,806
93,996
12,927

474,158

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

29.  DEBTORS AND PREPAYMENTS (CONTINUED)

The  credit  quality  of  trade  receivables  net  of  provision  for  impairment,  by  reference  to  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s 
credit ratings (if available) or to historical information about counterparty default rates is as follows:

US$’000

Counterparties with external credit rating
A
BBB
BB

Counterparties without external credit rating
Group 1
Group 2
Group 3

2017

16,627
7,384
163

24,174

18,035
341,178
225

359,438

383,612

2016

11,495
9,564
758

21,817

14,817
257,614
181

272,612

294,429

Notes:

Group 1 – new customers (less than 6 months).

Group 2 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with no defaults in the past.

Group 3 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with some defaults in the past.

Trade  receivables  are  normally  due  for  payment  on  presentation  of  invoices  or  granted  with  an  approved  credit  period 
ranging mainly from 10 to 30 days. Debtors with overdue balances are requested to settle all outstanding balances before any 
further credit is granted.

The majority of past due but not impaired trade receivables are less than three months old. The ageing analysis of the Group’s 
trade receivables, net of provision for impairment, prepared in accordance with the due dates of invoices, is as follows:

US$’000

Below one month
Two to three months
Four to six months
Over six months

2017

344,374
27,608
7,523
4,107

383,612

2016

271,913
16,598
4,839
1,079

294,429

There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a large number of internationally 
dispersed customers. Other debtors are fully performing.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

141141

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

29.  DEBTORS AND PREPAYMENTS (CONTINUED)

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Canadian dollar
Euro
Japanese yen
Hong Kong dollar
Renminbi
Pound sterling
Australian dollar
Other currencies

Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Provision
Write off
Reversal

Balance at end of year

2017

145,868
12,978
61,027
19,212
5,692
46,403
11,025
24,237
57,170

383,612

2017

16,313
3,683
(1,287)
(2,648)

16,061

2016

114,915
9,654
40,469
15,454
5,516
38,950
8,883
15,282
45,306

294,429

2016

9,548
7,176
(256)
(155)

16,313

The provision for impairment has been included in “business and administrative expenses” in the consolidated profit and loss 
account.

30.  AMOUNT DUE FROM AN ASSOCIATED COMPANY

The amount receivable is unsecured, interest free and has no specific repayment terms.

31.  AMOUNTS DUE FROM JOINT VENTURES

The amounts receivable are unsecured, interest free and have no specific repayment terms.

32.  PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS

US$’000

Listed equity securities

Hong Kong
Overseas

Market value of listed equity securities
Unit trust
Listed debt securities

Hong Kong
Overseas

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

142

2017

23,379
12,473

35,852
6,140

173,900
78,828

294,720

2016

19,569
17,151

36,720
5,762

174,899
105,546

322,927

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

32.  PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)

The carrying amounts of the Group’s portfolio investments are mainly denominated in US dollar (2016: US dollar).

The credit quality of listed debt securities by reference to Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

A
BBB
BB
Non-ranking

2017

40,320
121,618
9,688
81,102

252,728

2016

42,460
136,203
22,013
79,769

280,445

The fair value of all listed equity securities and debt securities are based on their current bid prices in active markets.

33.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

US$’000

Assets
Current assets

2017

2016

Bunker price derivative contracts

1,825

2,097

The  credit  quality  of  derivative  financial  assets  by  reference  to  the  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s  credit  rating  is  as 

follows:

US$’000

AA
A

2017

589
1,236

1,825

2016

2,097
–

2,097

At 31st December 2017, the Group had entered into contracts covering approximately 7% (2016: 11%) of expected purchase 

of bunker for the next year through bunker price derivative contracts.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

143143

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

34.  CASH AND BANK BALANCES

US$’000

Short-term bank deposits

– Maturing within three months from the date of placement

Cash at bank and in hand

2017

2016

1,485,327
455,648

1,940,975

1,213,057
412,162

1,625,219

Short-term bank deposits

– Maturing more than three months from the date of placement

–

457

1,940,975

1,625,676

The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash and bank balances are mainly denominated in US dollar (2016: US dollar).

The credit quality of cash at bank and in hand and short-term bank deposits by reference to Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and/
or Fitch’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

AA
A
BBB
BB
B
Others

35.  SHARE CAPITAL

US$’000

Authorised:

900,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.10 each
65,000,000 convertible redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each
50,000,000 redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each

Issued and fully paid:

At 31st December 2016 and 2017

2017

504,840
1,001,437
424,027
6,849
182
3,640

1,940,975

2016

344,528
823,592
446,852
5,739
272
4,693

1,625,676

2017

2016

90,000
65,000
50,000

205,000

90,000
65,000
50,000

205,000

Number of shares
(thousands)

Ordinary shares
US$’000

625,793

62,579

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

144

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

36.  RESERVES

US$’000

Balance at 31st December 2015
Total comprehensive loss for the year
Transactions with owners
2015 final dividend

Balance at 31st December 2016
Total comprehensive income for the year
Transactions with owners
2017 interim dividend

Share 
premium

Contributed 
surplus

172,457
–

–

172,457
–

–

88,547
–

–

88,547
–

–

Balance at 31st December 2017

172,457

88,547

37.  BORROWINGS

US$’000

Non-current
Bank loans
– Secured
– Unsecured
Finance lease obligations

Current
Bank loans
– Secured
– Unsecured
Finance lease obligations

Available-
for-sale 
financial assets 
revaluation 
reserve

Capital 
redemption 
reserve

4,696
–

–

4,696
–

–

4,696

Foreign 
exchange 
translation 
reserve

44,302
(17,223)

Retained 
profit

4,384,019
(239,339)

Total

4,734,931
(266,620)

–

(11,604)

(11,604)

27,079
15,961

4,133,076
148,162

4,456,707
176,615

–

(13,388)

(13,388)

40,910
(10,058)

–

30,852
12,492

–

43,344

43,040

4,267,850

4,619,934

2017

2016

1,531,192
275,974
2,122,859

3,930,025

256,258
33,998
333,902

624,158

1,624,089
309,972
1,555,211

3,489,272

242,848
21,498
337,119

601,465

Total borrowings

4,554,183

4,090,737

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

145145

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

37.  BORROWINGS (CONTINUED)
The maturity of borrowings is as follows:

US$’000

As at 31st December 2017

2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023 onwards

As at 31st December 2016

2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022 onwards

Bank
loans

290,256
318,809
453,011
384,164
237,426
413,756

Finance leases

Present
value

Minimum
payments

333,902
192,216
155,191
447,895
150,202
1,177,355

392,262
242,516
200,140
509,969
180,958
1,247,815

2,097,422

2,456,761

2,773,660

264,346
268,495
295,376
429,572
360,719
579,899

337,119
278,337
134,881
173,699
227,462
740,832

383,581
306,168
157,717
201,022
260,817
763,875

2,198,407

1,892,330

2,073,180

Borrowings are secured by property, plant and equipment of the Group (note 16(a)).

The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows:

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations

The carrying amounts and fair values of the non-current borrowings are as follows:

2017

2.8%
3.1%

2016

2.0%
2.4%

US$’000

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations

Carrying amounts

Fair values

2017

1,807,166
2,122,859

2016

1,934,061
1,555,211

2017

1,805,997
2,095,766

2016

1,932,904
1,550,622

3,930,025

3,489,272

3,901,763

3,483,526

The fair values are based on cash flows discounted using rates based on the borrowing rates ranging from 2.0% to 5.1% (2016: 
2.1% to 3.9%).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

146

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

37.  BORROWINGS (CONTINUED)

The carrying amounts of short-term borrowings approximate their fair values.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in US dollar (2016: US dollar).

The  fixed  interest  rate  borrowings  of  the  Group  as  at  31st  December  2017  amounted  to  US$892.3  million  (2016:  US$443.7 
million). The remaining borrowings of US$3,661.9 million (2016: US$3,647.0 million) were subject to floating interest rates.

38.  CREDITORS AND ACCRUALS

US$’000

Trade payables
Other creditors
Accrued expenses
Deferred revenue

2017

179,189
113,216
420,654
27,201

740,260

The ageing analysis of the Group’s trade payables, prepared in accordance with the dates of invoices, is as follows:

US$’000

Below one month
Two to three months
Four to six months
Over six months

2017

138,973
32,483
1,309
6,424

179,189

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade payables are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Canadian dollar
Euro
Japanese yen
Hong Kong dollar
Renminbi
Other currencies

39.  AMOUNTS DUE TO JOINT VENTURES

The amounts payable are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.

2017

88,149
8,033
14,007
16,503
16,007
27,991
8,499

179,189

2016

198,819
102,116
354,239
40,723

695,897

2016

142,754
44,932
656
10,477

198,819

2016

107,692
6,120
14,583
16,458
14,624
20,561
18,781

198,819

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

147147

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

40.  COMMITMENTS

(a)  Capital commitments – Property, plant and equipment

US$’000

Contracted but not provided for

(b)  Operating lease commitments

2017

284,416

2016

663,951

The future aggregate minimum lease rental expenses under non-cancellable operating leases are payable in the following 
years:

US$’000

At 31st December 2017

2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023 onwards

At 31st December 2016

2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022 onwards

Vessels and
equipment

Land and
buildings

145,501
75,240
67,999
46,791
19,295
8,920

363,746

145,136
89,135
67,095
64,770
44,043
26,167

436,346

32,294
29,604
19,162
11,630
8,210
19,381

120,281

28,954
18,679
15,750
12,015
10,729
24,885

111,012

Total

177,795
104,844
87,161
58,421
27,505
28,301

484,027

174,090
107,814
82,845
76,785
54,772
51,052

547,358

The  Group  entered  into  the  Preferential  Assignment  Agreement  (the  “Agreement”)  with  the  City  of  Long  Beach 
(“COLB”)  for  the  use  of  the  Middle  Harbor  Terminal  (the  “Terminal”)  in  Long  Beach,  California  USA  on  30th  April 
2012.  The  term  of  the  Agreement  is  40  years  commencing  on  1st  of  July  2011.  As  at  31st  December  2017,  the  Group 
signed  several  Amendments  to  Preferential  Assignment  Agreement  (the  “Amendment”)  with  COLB,  which  has 
amended certain terms within the Agreement and has altered the expected guaranteed minimum annual compensation 
to be made for the relevant period of the lease term.

The guaranteed minimum annual compensation is computed based on the guaranteed minimum annual compensation 
per  acreage  (ranging  from  US$180,000  to  US$270,000  in  the  first  5  years  of  the  lease)  multiplied  by  the  number  of 
acreages  of  the  Terminal  delivered,  which  is  subject  to  mutual  agreement  between  the  Group  and  COLB  along  the 
Terminal  construction  and  based  on  the  milestones  set  out  in  the  Agreement.  The  construction  is  expected  to  be 
completed  by  early  2021  and  the  estimated  number  of  acreages  of  the  Terminal  upon  completion  is  estimated  to  be 
approximately  304.7  acreages.  As  of  31st  December  2017,  the  acreages  of  the  Terminal  used  to  determine  the  rental 
is  193.0  acreages  (31st  December  2016:  193.0  acreages).  The  Group  and  COLB  renegotiate  the  guaranteed  minimum 
annual  compensation  per  acre  every  5  years  which  will  not  be  less  than  the  highest  guaranteed  minimum  annual 
compensation in the previous 5 years.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

148

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

40.  COMMITMENTS (CONTINUED)

(c)  Operating lease rental receivable

The  future  aggregate  minimum  lease  rental  income  under  non-cancellable  operating  leases  are  receivable  in  the 
following years:

US$’000

At 31st December 2017

2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023 onwards

At 31st December 2016

2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022 onwards

Vessels and
equipment

Land and
buildings

24,000
21,128
19,425
17,278
14,920
42,889

Total

25,235
21,128
19,425
17,278
14,920
42,889

139,640

140,875

28,772
23,486
20,472
18,212
15,964
24,130

28,772
23,486
20,472
18,212
15,964
24,130

131,036

131,036

1,235
–
–
–
–
–

1,235

–
–
–
–
–
–

–

41.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT

(a)  The reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities is as follows:

US$’000

At 31st December 2015
Cash flow

Bank 
borrowings 
(current)

Bank 
borrowings 
(non-current)

Finance lease 
obligations 
(current)

Finance lease 
obligations 
(non-current)

312,367

1,981,561

126,238

1,681,539

– Inflow from financing activities 
– Outflow from financing activities 

 – 
 (658,098)

 559,289 
 – 

 – 
 (129,649)

 – 
 – 

Total

4,101,705

 559,289 
 (787,747)

Non-cash changes 

– Reclassification 
– Inception of finance leases  

(note 41(b)) 
– Finance costs 

At 31st December 2016 
Cash flow 

 610,077 

 (610,077)

 340,530 

 (340,530)

 – 

 – 
 – 

 – 
 3,288 

 – 
 – 

 205,070 
 9,132 

 205,070 
 12,420 

 264,346 

 1,934,061 

 337,119 

 1,555,211 

 4,090,737 

– Inflow from financing activities 
– Outflow from financing activities 

 – 
 (552,076)

 447,361 
 – 

 – 
 (236,838)

 659,521 
 – 

 1,106,882 
 (788,914)

Non-cash changes 

– Reclassification 
– Inception of finance leases  

(note 41(b)) 
– Finance costs 

 577,986 

 (577,986)

 233,621 

 (233,621)

 – 

 – 
 – 

 – 
 3,730 

 – 
 – 

 129,401 
 12,347 

 129,401 
 16,077 

At 31st December 2017 

 290,256 

 1,807,166 

 333,902 

 2,122,859 

 4,554,183 

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

149149

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

41.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

(b)  Major non-cash transactions

During  the  year,  major  non-cash  transactions  included  the  inception  of  finance  leases  of  US$129.4  million  (2016: 
US$205.1  million)  and  non-cash  dividend  received  from  available-for-sale  financial  assets  of  US$13.3  million  (2016: 
US$14.3 million).

(c)  Analysis of cash and cash equivalents

US$’000

Bank balances and deposits maturing within three months  

from the date of placement 

2017

2016

1,940,975 

1,625,219 

42.  COMPANY BALANCE SHEET

As at 31st December 2017

US$’000

ASSETS 
Non-current assets 
Subsidiaries 

Current assets 
Prepayments 
Amounts due from subsidiaries 
Restricted bank balances 
Cash and bank balances 

Total assets 

EQUITY 
Equity holders 
Share capital 
Reserves (note) 

Total equity 

LIABILITIES 
Non-current liability 
Amount due to a subsidiary 

Current liabilities 
Accruals 
Amounts due to subsidiaries 

Total liabilities 

Total equity and liabilities 

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

150

2017

2016

 169,487 

 169,487 

 48 
 2,876,770 
 345 
 93 

 2,877,256 

 3,046,743 

 47 
 2,811,186 
 349 
 74 

 2,811,656 

 2,981,143 

 62,579 
 1,015,718 

 62,579 
 991,380 

 1,078,297 

 1,053,959 

 1,589,229 

 1,589,229 

 1,829 
 377,388 

 379,217 

 1,968,446 

 3,046,743 

 1,629,229 

 1,629,229 

 363 
 297,592 

 297,955 

 1,927,184 

 2,981,143 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

42.  COMPANY BALANCE SHEET (CONTINUED)

Note: 

Movements of reserves

US$’000

Balance at 31st December 2015 

Total comprehensive loss for the year 

Transactions with owners 

2015 final dividend 

Share

Contributed

redemption

Capital

premium

 172,457 

 – 

 – 

surplus

 88,547 

 – 

 – 

reserve

 4,696 

 – 

 – 

Balance at 31st December 2016 

 172,457 

 88,547 

 4,696 

Total comprehensive income for the year 

Transactions with owners 

2017 interim dividend 

 – 

 – 

 – 

 – 

 – 

 – 

Retained

profit

 738,595 

 (1,311)

Total

 1,004,295 

 (1,311)

 (11,604)

 (11,604)

 725,680 

 37,726 

 991,380 

 37,726 

 (13,388)

 (13,388)

Balance at 31st December 2017 

 172,457 

 88,547 

 4,696 

 750,018 

 1,015,718 

Under  the  Companies  Act  of  Bermuda  and  the  Bye-laws  of  the  Company,  the  contributed  surplus  is  also  distributable. 

Accordingly,  total  distributable  reserves  of  the  Company  amount  to  US$838.6  million  as  at  31st  December  2017  (2016: 

US$814.2 million).

43.  APPROVAL OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 9th March 2018.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

151151

 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures

as at 31st December 2017

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures

as at 31st December 2017

Name of Company

Subsidiaries

Cargo System Warehouse and 

Transport Ltd.

Consolidated Leasing &  

Terminals, Inc.

Containers No. 1 Inc.

Containers No. 2 Inc.

Dongguan Orient Container  

Co. Ltd.

Far Gain Investment Ltd.

Glory Top Investment Ltd.

Goodrich Limited

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

3,000 ordinary shares  
HK$300,000

Investment holding and 
container transport

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

1 common stock  
US$100

Investment holding, equipment 
owning and leasing

USA

USA

10,000 ordinary shares  
US$100,000

10,000 ordinary shares  
US$100,000

Equipment owning and leasing Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Equipment owning and leasing Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Registered capital  
HK$29,000,000

Container depot and 
warehousing

China *

China

10,000 ordinary shares  
HK$10,000

10,000 ordinary shares  
HK$10,000

Investment holding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Portfolio investment

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

500 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

Commodity instruments for 
Group

Marshall Islands

Marshall Islands

Hai Dong Transportation Co. Ltd.

100

Kenwake Ltd.

Laronda Company Ltd.

LBCT LLC

100
100

100

100

Long Beach Container Terminal, Inc.

100

Maritime Delivery Services Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1370A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1371A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1420 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1421 Shipping Inc.

100

100,000 ordinary shares  
HK$100,000

1,600,000 ordinary shares
520,000 5% cumulative  
preference shares  
￡2,120,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

Capital of  
US$500,000

5,000 common stock  
US$500,000

1,000 common stock  
US$10,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

Container transport

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Investment holding

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

Portfolio investment

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Terminal operating

Maintenance of union office 
workers and provision of  
labour services

Trucking service

USA

USA

USA

USA

USA

USA

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

152

 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2017

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Newcontainer 1484 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1565A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1585A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1667A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 1668A Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2002 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2004 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2005 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2007 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2009 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2010 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2011 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2172 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 2173 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer 4090 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 5 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 6 Shipping Inc.

100

Newcontainer No. 9  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 10  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

100

100

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Ship owning

Liberia †

Liberia †

Worldwide

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

153

 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2017

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Newcontainer No. 15  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 51  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 52  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 53  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 56  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 67  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 69  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 73  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 75  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 83  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 85  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 86  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 87  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 88  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 93  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 95  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 96  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 97  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 98  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

500 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

154

 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2017

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Newcontainer No. 99  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 100  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 101  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 102  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 103  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 106  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 107  

(Marshall Islands) Shipping Inc.

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Investment holding

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

OLL Logistics (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

100

10,000 ordinary shares  
RM10,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Malaysia

Malaysia

OOCL (Agencies) Holdings Inc.

100

OOCL (Agencies) Ltd.

OOCL (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

OOCL (Assets) Holdings Inc.

100

100

100

OOCL (Assets USA) Holdings Inc.

100

OOCL (Australia) Pty Ltd.

OOCL BENELUX

OOCL (Cambodia) Ltd.

OOCL (Canada) Inc.

OOCL (China) Investment Ltd.

100

100

100

100

100

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

200 ordinary shares  
US$20,000

2 ordinary shares  
HK$2

500 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

50,000 ordinary shares  
US$50,000

200,000 ordinary shares  
A$200,000

226,271 ordinary shares  
€609,799

50,000 ordinary shares 
Riel200,000,000

10,000 common stock  
C$91,000

2 ordinary shares  
HK$2

Investment holding

Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Investment holding

Bermuda

Worldwide

Transportation

Hong Kong

Asia Pacific

Investment holding

Investment holding

Liberia †

Liberia †

Worldwide

USA

Liner agency

Australia

Australia

Liner agency

Belgium

Belgium

Liner agency

Cambodia

Cambodia

Liner agency

Canada

Canada

Investment holding

Hong Kong

China

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

155

 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2017

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

OOCL (Corporate Services) Limited

100

OOCL (Denmark) A/S

OOCL (Europe) Ltd.

OOCL (Finland) Ltd. Oy

OOCL (India) Private Ltd.

OOCL (Infotech) Holdings Ltd.

OOCL (Italy) S.r.l.

OOCL (Korea) Ltd.

OOCL (Liners) Holdings Ltd.

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

OOCL (Logistics) Holdings Ltd.

100

OOCL (Mexico), S.A. de CV

OOCL (New Zealand) Ltd.

OOCL Pakistan (Private) Ltd.

OOCL (Philippines) Inc.

OOCL (Poland) Ltd sp. z o.o.

OOCL (Portugal), Lda

OOCL (Russia) Ltd.

OOCL (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

2 ordinary shares  
HK$2

1,000 ordinary shares  
DKK500,000

Provision of corporate services Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Liner agency

Denmark

Northern Europe

5,000,000 ordinary shares  
￡5,000,000

Container transport, 
investment holding and liner 
territorial office

United Kingdom

Worldwide

150 ordinary shares  
€2,522.82

1,000 equity shares  
Rupees100,000

2 ordinary shares  
US$2

1 quota  
€10,000

16,000 common stock  
Won160,000,000

2 ordinary shares  
HK$2

10,000 ordinary shares  
US$10,000

600,000 ordinary shares  
Peso600,000

100 ordinary shares  
NZD1,000

1,350,000 ordinary shares  
PKR13,500,000

55,000 common stock  
Peso5,500,000

1,000 ordinary shares  
PLN50,000

2 quotas  
€25,000

1 participatory share  
Rub10,000

100,000 ordinary shares  
S$100,000

Liner agency

Finland

Finland

Liner agency

India

India

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

Liner agency

Italy

Korea

Italy

Korea

Investment holding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

Mexico

Mexico

Liner agency

New Zealand

New Zealand

Liner agency

Pakistan

Pakistan

Liner agency

Philippines

Philippines

Liner agency

Poland

Poland

Liner agency

Portugal

Portugal

Liner agency

Russia

Russia

Liner agency

Singapore

Singapore

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

156

 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2017

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

OOCL (Sweden) AB

OOCL (Switzerland) AG

OOCL (Taiwan) Co. Ltd.

100

100

100

OOCL (Terminals) Investment Ltd.

100

OOCL (USA) Inc.

OOCL (Vietnam) Co. Ltd.

OOCL China Domestics Ltd.

OOCL LLC

OOCL Logistics Limited

100

100

100

100

100

OOCL Logistics (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

100

100,000 ordinary shares  
SEK100,000

200,000 ordinary shares  
CHF200,000

10,000,000 ordinary shares 
NT$100,000,000

500 ordinary shares  
US$500

1,030 common stock  
US$1,030

Legal capital  
US$500,000

Liner agency

Sweden

Sweden

Liner agency

Switzerland

Switzerland

Liner agency

Taiwan

Taiwan

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

USA

USA

Liner agency

Vietnam

Vietnam

Registered capital  
RMB21,250,000

Transportation and freight 
agency

Capital of  
US$500,000

Investment holding and 
equipment owning

China ±

USA

China

USA

10,000 ordinary shares  
US$10,000

200 ordinary shares  
US$20,000

Investment holding

British Virgin Islands

Hong Kong

Investment holding, 
management of international 
transportation and logistics

Bermuda

Worldwide

OOCL Logistics (Australia)  

100

Pty. Limited

200,000 ordinary shares  
A$200,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Australia

Australia

OOCL Logistics (Cambodia) Ltd.

100

1,250 ordinary shares  
Riel5,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Cambodia

Cambodia

OOCL Logistics (Canada) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (China) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (Europe) Ltd.

100

100

100

1,000 common stock  
C$1,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Canada

Registered capital  
US$4,840,000

2 ordinary shares  
￡2

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

China *

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding territorial office

United Kingdom

Europe

Canada

China

OOCL Logistics (Hong Kong) Ltd.

100

50,000 ordinary shares  
HK$500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

OOCL Logistics (India) Private Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (Japan) Ltd.

100

35,000 equity shares  
Rupee3,500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

200 ordinary shares  
Yen10,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

India

Japan

India

Japan

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

157

 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2017

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

OOCL Logistics (Korea) Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics Mexico, S.A. de CV

100

30,000 common stock  
Won300,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Korea

500,000 ordinary shares  
Peso500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Mexico

Korea

Mexico

OOCL Logistics Pakistan (Pvt) 

100

Limited

1,300,000 ordinary shares  
PKR13,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Pakistan

Pakistan

OOCL Logistics (Russia) Limited

100

1 share  
Rub10,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Russia

Russia

OOCL Logistics (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

100

2 ordinary shares  
S$2

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Singapore

Singapore

OOCL Logistics (Taiwan) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (USA) Inc.

100

100

OOCL Logistics Line Limited

100

OOCL Logistics Warehousing and 

100

Transportation (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.

OOCL Logistics Warehousing and 
Transportation (Tianjin) Co. Ltd.

OOCL Transport & Logistics 

Holdings Ltd. #

100

100

OOCL Warehousing (Shanghai) 

100

Limited

OOIL (Investments) Inc. #

Orient Overseas Associates

Orient Overseas Building Corp.

100

100

100

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(China) Co. Ltd.

4,250,000 ordinary shares  
NT$42,500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Taiwan

Taiwan

100 common stock  
US$200

2 ordinary shares  
HK$2

Registered capital  
US$1,000,000

Registered capital  
US$4,700,000

169,477,152 ordinary shares  
US$169,477,152

Registered capital  
US$10,000,000

500 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation, 
forwarding and investment 
holding

Transportation and freight 
forwarding

Warehousing and logistics 
services

Warehousing, transportation 
and logistics services

USA

Worldwide

Hong Kong

Worldwide

China *

China *

China

China

Investment holding

Bermuda

Worldwide

Warehousing and depot 
services

China *

China

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Limited partnership

Property owning

Property owning

USA

USA

Liner agency

China *

10 common stock  
US$150,000

Registered capital  
US$3,400,000

USA

USA

China

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(Europe) Ltd.

66,000,000 ordinary shares 
￡66,000,000

Investment holding

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

500,000 ordinary shares  
RM500,000

Orient Overseas Container Line 

100

(Spain), S.L.

3,100 ordinary shares  
€3,100

Liner agency

Malaysia

Malaysia

Liner agency

Spain

Spain

Orient Overseas Container Line  

100

(UK) Ltd.

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

Ship management and vessel 
operator

Cayman Islands

Worldwide

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

158

 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures
as at 31st December 2017

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)

Effective 
percentage 
held by Group

Issued and fully paid up 
capital/registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Principal activities

Place of incorporation Area of operations

Orient Overseas Container Line Inc.

100

Orient Overseas Container Line Ltd.

100

Soberry Investments Ltd.

The Speed Limited

Union Faith (H.K.) Limited

Wall Street Plaza, Inc.

100

100

100

100
100
100

100

100

100

Wealth Capital Corporation

100

Associated companies

Ningbo Yuan Dong Terminal Ltd.

Tianjin Port Alliance International 
Container Terminal Co. Ltd.

Joint ventures

OOCL (Egypt) Shipping  

Agency S.A.E.

OOCL (UAE) LLC

Tang Cang – OOCL Logistics 

Company Limited

Qingdao Orient International 

Container Storage &  
Transportation Co. Ltd.

20

20

49

49

50

59

500 ordinary shares  
US$25,000,000

10,000 ordinary shares  
HK$1,000,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

1 ordinary share  
HK$1

40 class A common stock
160 class B common stock
20,000 12% series A  
non-cumulative  
non-voting preferred stock
18,000 11% series B  
non-cumulative  
non-voting preferred stock
19,500 12% series C  
non-cumulative  
non-voting preferred stock
19,000 12% series D  
non-cumulative  
non-voting preferred stock  
US$76,500,200

500 ordinary shares  
US$5,000

Registered capital  
RMB2,500,000,000

Registered capital  
US$160,000,000

7,500 ordinary shares  
EGP750,000

300 ordinary shares  
AED300,000

Legal capital 
US$308,000

Registered capital  
RMB69,900,000

#  Direct subsidiaries of the Company.
†  Companies incorporated in Liberia but redomiciled to the Marshall Islands.
*  Wholly foreign-owned enterprise.
§  Sino-foreign equity joint venture enterprise.
±  Domestic joint venture enterprise.

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Container transport

Hong Kong

Worldwide

Portfolio investment

British Virgin Islands

Worldwide

Provision of financing to Group Marshall Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Hong Kong

Worldwide

Investment holding

USA

USA

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Terminal operating

Terminal operating

Liner agency

Liner agency

China§

China§

Egypt

Dubai

China

China

Egypt

Dubai

Container depot

Vietnam

Vietnam

Container depot

China §

China

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

159

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fleet and Container Information

Fleet and Container Information

Fleet

The following table sets out the Group’s vessels as at 31st December 2017.

VESSEL NAME

OOCL America
OOCL Bangkok
OOCL Beijing
OOCL Belgium
OOCL California
OOCL Canada
OOCL Charleston
OOCL Chicago
OOCL Chongqing
OOCL Dalian
OOCL Guangzhou
OOCL Jakarta
OOCL Le Havre
OOCL London
OOCL Luxembourg
OOCL Memphis
OOCL Miami
OOCL Nagoya
OOCL New York
OOCL Norfolk
OOCL San Francisco
OOCL Savannah
OOCL Scandinavia
OOCL Seoul
OOCL Shanghai
OOCL United Kingdom
OOCL Washington
OOCL Asia
OOCL Atlanta
OOCL Australia
OOCL Berlin
OOCL Brisbane
OOCL Brussels
OOCL Busan
OOCL Egypt
OOCL Europe
OOCL France
OOCL Genoa
OOCL Germany
OOCL Hamburg
OOCL Ho Chi Minh City
OOCL Hong Kong

TEU 
CAPACITY

OWNERSHIP

SERVICE IN 
WHICH USED

DATE 
PLACED IN 
SERVICE

5,344
13,208
8,888
2,992
5,344
8,888
4,578
5,714
13,208
4,578
4,578
4,578
4,578
8,063
8,063
8,888
8,888
4,578
5,770
4,578
5,714
4,578
21,413
8,063
5,770
21,413
8,063
8,063
8,063
4,583
13,208
4,578
13,208
4,578
13,208
8,063
13,208
8,888
21,413
8,063
8,888
21,413

Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease

Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
N/A
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
N/A
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Asia-Europe
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Trans-Atlantic
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe

1995
2013
2011
1998
1995
2011
2010
2000
2013
2009
2010
2010
2010
2010
2010
2013
2013
2009
1999
2009
2000
2010
2017
2010
1999
2017
2010
2006
2005
2006
2013
2009
2013
2008
2013
2006
2013
2015
2017
2004
2015
2017

FLAG

Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

160

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VESSEL NAME

OOCL Houston
OOCL Japan
OOCL Kobe
OOCL Korea
OOCL Malaysia
OOCL Montreal
OOCL New Zealand
OOCL Panama
OOCL Poland
OOCL Rotterdam
OOCL Singapore
OOCL Southampton
OOCL Taipei
OOCL Texas
OOCL Tokyo
OOCL Utah
OOCL Yokohama
OOCL Zhoushan
Allise P
AS Riccarda
AS Savonia
Brighton
Buxharmony
Cape Tainaro
Colette
Conmar Bay
CSL Virginia
E.R. Montpellier
Express Athens
Great
Iberian Express
Ikaria
Irenes Rhythm
Kuo Tai
Mexico
Navi Baltic
OOCL Antwerp
OOCL Dubai
OOCL Italy
OOCL Kaohsiung
OOCL Kuala Lumpur
OOCL Ningbo
OOCL Oakland
OOCL Qingdao
OOCL Rauma
OOCL Vancover

Fleet and Container Information

TEU 
CAPACITY

OWNERSHIP

SERVICE IN 
WHICH USED

DATE 
PLACED IN 
SERVICE

FLAG

4,578
21,413
4,578
13,208
13,208
4,402
4,578
4,578
13,208
8,063
13,208
8,063
8,888
4,578
8,063
8,888
4,578
4,583
5,044
1,500
1,679
6,350
2,702
11,037
2,732
1,036
5,043
2,824
10,114
5,576
1,118
5,908
2,824
1,295
4,992
1,421
5,888
5,888
5,888
5,888
5,888
8,063
5,888
8,063
1,421
5,888

Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Trans-Atlantic
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Europe
Asia-Australia
Asia-Australia
Asia-Australia
Asia-Australia
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Trans-Pacific

2007
2017
2007
2014
2013
2003
2009
2008
2013
2004
2014
2007
2015
2008
2007
2015
2007
2006
2007
2012
2000
2008
2007
2016
2002
2012
2005
2006
2011
2004
2008
2002
2007
1995
2002
2009
2006
2006
2007
2006
2007
2004
2007
2004
2009
2006

Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Liberia
Portugal
Liberia
United Kingdom
Liberia
Malta
Marshall Island
Antigua and Barbuda
Cyprus
Liberia
Liberia
Marshall Island
Gibraltar
Liberia
Malta
Panama
Liberia
Portugal
Panama
Singapore
Singapore
Singapore
Singapore
Hong Kong
Panama
Hong Kong
Netherlands
Panama

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

161

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fleet and Container Information

TEU 
CAPACITY

OWNERSHIP

SERVICE IN 
WHICH USED

DATE 
PLACED IN 
SERVICE

2,194
1,714
5,047
6,541
1,708
1,704
8,084
2,535
5,610
1,702
2,824
1,756
1,118
1,500
698,401

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia

2015
2012
2005
2006
2014
2014
2005
2011
2002
2000
2007
2013
2006
2009

FLAG

Malta
Portugal
Marshall Island
Marshall Island
Cyprus
Malta
Marshall Island
Liberia
Liberia
China
Liberia
Malta
Liberia
Cyprus

VESSEL NAME

Orea
Ornella
Pamina
Pucon
San Lorenzo
Santa Loukia
Seamax New Haven
ST Blue
Suez Canal
Teng Yun He
TRF Kaya
Tzini
Vega Fynen
Warnow Chief
TOTAL 102 VESSELS

Container Information

The Group owned, purchased on finance lease terms or leased under operating lease agreements 688,520 units (1,146,548 TEU) as 

of 31st December 2017. Approximately 86.5% of the container fleet in TEU capacity was owned or purchased under finance leases 

with the remainder leased under operating lease agreements.

In addition, at 31st December 2017 the Group owned, purchased on finance lease terms or leased under operating lease terms 37 

trailer chassis.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

162

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10-Year Financial Summary

10-Year Financial Summary

US$’000

Consolidated Profit and Loss Data
Revenue
Operating profit/(loss)
Finance costs
Profit/(loss) before taxation
Profit/(loss) for the year from  

continuing operations

Profit/(loss) for the year from  

discontinued operations

Profit/(loss) for the year
Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders
Per Ordinary Share

Earnings/(loss) (US cents)

from continuing operations
from discontinued operations

Dividends (US cents)

Weighted average number of ordinary shares  

in issue (’000)

Consolidated Balance Sheet Data
Property, plant and equipment
Liquid assets
Assets held for sale
Liabilities directly associated with  
assets classified as held for sale
Other net current (liabilities)/assets
Total assets
Long-term debt
Total long and short-term debt
Net debt/(liquid assets)
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

Other Financial Information
Depreciation
Capital expenditure

Consolidated Financial Ratios/Percentages
Debt to equity ratio
Net debt/(cash) to equity ratio
Return on average ordinary  
shareholders’ equity (%)

Accounts payable as a % of revenue
Accounts receivable as a % of revenue
Net asset value per ordinary share (US$)

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

6,530,855
397,764
(81,016)
322,546

4,350,195
(332,237)
(35,347)
(361,870)

6,033,402
918,807
(29,091)
898,776

6,011,836
174,598
(26,179)
162,457

6,459,059
327,904
(32,877)
310,134

6,231,583
90,314
(41,019)
66,999

6,521,589
329,147
(54,000)
294,583

5,953,444
353,068
(63,642)
307,208

5,297,693
(138,227)
(79,393)
(199,667)

6,108,350
232,170
(101,215)
150,089

297,569

(376,104)

869,817

139,354

296,317

47,133

270,438

283,851

(219,221)

137,656

(22,040)
275,529
272,337

(24,501)
(400,605)
(402,294)

1,004,554
1,874,371
1,866,780

43,000
182,354
181,645

–
296,317
295,387

–
47,133
47,036

–
270,438
270,538

–
283,851
283,851

–
(219,221)
(219,221)

–
137,656
137,656

47.1
(3.6)
11.00

(60.4)
(3.9)
–

137.8
160.5
283.80

22.1
6.9
7.00

47.2
–
11.84

7.5
–
1.88

43.2
–
10.90

45.4
–
11.45

(35.0)
–
–

22.0
–
2.14

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

3,780,945
2,077,087
–

–
342,756
7,701,635
2,218,251
2,372,146
295,059
4,387,071

3,798,048
1,354,387
1,268,254

3,860,367
4,132,897
–

4,205,194
2,413,132
–

4,664,773
2,339,531
–

5,320,251
2,411,085
–

5,608,929
2,689,754
53,047

6,020,744
2,548,976
–

6,076,673
2,186,946
–

6,251,457
2,534,463
–

(142,406)
(582,807)
7,330,174
2,135,967
2,568,022
1,213,635
3,944,684

–
(475,304)
9,075,183
2,416,367
2,664,122
(1,468,775)
5,548,446

–
(543,133)
7,711,478
2,233,095
2,672,206
259,074
4,233,468

–
(654,625)
8,231,039
2,325,777
2,881,530
541,999
4,481,815

–
(473,105)
8,990,218
3,265,555
3,533,865
1,122,780
4,470,807

–
(628,393)
9,633,455
3,595,625
3,984,502
1,294,748
4,634,752

–
(622,964)
9,731,574
3,663,100
4,101,719
1,552,743
4,797,510

–
(738,046)
9,404,590
3,489,272
4,090,737
1,903,791
4,519,286

–
(671,309)
10,069,296
3,930,025
4,554,183
2,019,720
4,682,513

181,898
650,568

207,275
380,161

255,010
345,255

242,534
744,603

235,346
784,562

302,884
999,451

323,482
848,769

315,426
796,720

400,351
478,637

428,482
618,690

0.54
0.07

6.4
12.8
6.7
7.01

0.65
0.31

(9.7)
13.8
8.7
6.30

0.48
(0.26)

39.3
12.6
7.5
8.87

0.63
0.06

3.7
11.8
7.8
6.76

0.64
0.12

6.8
12.1
8.4
7.16

0.79
0.25

1.1
14.5
8.9
7.14

0.86
0.28

5.9
14.5
8.8
7.41

0.85
0.32

6.0
12.6
8.4
7.67

0.91
0.42

(4.7)
13.1
9.0
7.22

0.97
0.43

3.0
12.1
9.7
7.48

Note:
(1)  The accounting policy on HKAS 12 ‘Income taxes’ was changed in 2012 and the figures prior to 2010 have not been restated to reflect this change.
(2)  The accounting policy on HKAS 19 (Amendment) ‘Employee Benefits’ was changed in 2013 and the figures prior to 2011 have not been restated to 

reflect this change.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

163

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Information

Corporate Information

EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

PRINCIPAL REGISTRAR

SOLICITORS

Mr. Tung Chee Chen 

  (Chairman, President and 

MUFG Fund Services

(Bermuda) Limited

  Chief Executive Officer)

  The Belvedere Building

Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew

Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan 

  69 Pitts Bay Road

  Pembroke HM08

  (Chief Financial Officer)

  Bermuda

Conyers Dill & Pearman

  Clarendon House

  2 Church Street

  Hamilton HM11

  Bermuda

  and at

NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

BRANCH REGISTRAR

Professor Roger King

Computershare Hong Kong Investor

  29th Floor, One Exchange Square

INDEPENDENT NON-
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

Mr. Simon Murray

Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah

Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard

Mr. Cheng Wai Sun Edward

Services Limited

  Shops 1712-1716, 17th Floor

  Hopewell Centre
  183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai

  Hong Kong

LISTING EXCHANGE

Mr. Kwok King Man Clement

The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong

COMPANY SECRETARY

Ms. Lammy Lee

AUTHORISED 
REPRESENTATIVES

Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan

Ms. Lammy Lee

PRINCIPAL OFFICE

33rd Floor

Harbour Centre

25 Harbour Road, Wanchai

Hong Kong

REGISTERED OFFICE

Clarendon House

2 Church Street

Hamilton HM11

Bermuda

Limited

Stock Code: 316

WEBSITE

http://www.ooilgroup.com

MAJOR BANKERS

Bank of America, N.A.

Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited

Citibank, N.A.

DBS Bank Limited

HSBC Holdings plc

HSH Nordbank AG

Oversea-Chinese Banking 

  Corporation Limited

Société Générale

Standard Chartered Bank 

(Hong Kong) Limited

Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Limited

  8 Connaught Place

  Central

  Hong Kong

Ince & Co

  Suites 4404-10, 44th Floor

  One Island East

  18 Westlands Road, Taikoo Place

  Hong Kong

Slaughter and May

  47th Floor, Jardine House

  One Connaught Place

  Central

  Hong Kong

AUDITOR

PricewaterhouseCoopers

Certified Public Accountants

  22nd Floor
  Prince’s Building

  Central

  Hong Kong

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2017

164

 
 
 
