2014

Annual Report
Orient Overseas (International) Limited

(Incorporated in Bermuda with Limited Liability)
Stock code: 316

Corporate profile

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (“OOIL”),  a  company  with  total  revenues  in  excess  of  US$6.5  billion,  has  principal 
business activities in container transport and logistics services. Listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, the OOIL Group has 
more than 320 offices in 70 countries.

Orient Overseas Container Line and OOCL are trade names for transportation provided separately by Orient Overseas Container 
Line  Limited  (“OOCLL”)  and  OOCL  (Europe)  Limited  and  both  are  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  of  OOIL.  OOCL  is  one  of  the 
world’s  largest  integrated  international  transportation,  logistics  and  terminal  companies,  and  is  an  industry  leader  in  the  use  of 
information technology and e-commerce to manage the entire cargo transport process. OOCL’s modern fleet today includes some 
of the youngest, largest, fuel efficient, and environmentally friendly vessels carrying cargoes on hundreds of trade routes around 
the world, providing a vital link in Global Trade.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited Annual Report 2014Contents

Significant Events – 2014

  1  Contents
  2  Financial Highlights
  3 
  6  Chairman’s Letter
  10  Operations Review
  15  Major Customers and Suppliers
  20  Corporate Responsibility
  28  Financial Review
  44  Board of Directors
  48 
  49 

Senior Management
Shareholder Section

  49 
  50 

Financial Calendar
Shareholder Information

  52  Corporate Governance Report
  73  Report of the Directors

Index – Financial Information
Independent Auditor’s Report

  80 
  81 
  82  Financial Statements

  82 
  83 
  84 
  86 
  87 
  88 
  89 
  145 

Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Balance Sheet
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and
Joint Ventures

 155  Other Information

Fleet and Container Information

  155 
  158  Terminal Information
  159 
  160  Corporate Information

10-Year Financial Summary

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$M

Consolidated profit and loss
Revenue
Operating profit
Revaluation of Wall Street Plaza
Finance costs
Profit for the year

Consolidated Balance Sheet
Liquid assets
Property, plant and equipment
Total assets
Borrowings
Total liabilities
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

Consolidated Net Cash flow
Operating activities
Investing activities
Financing activities
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents

Key ratios
Operating profit margin
Gross debt to equity
Net debt to equity
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Earnings per ordinary share (US cents)
Net asset value per ordinary share (US dollar)

2014

6,522
329
10
(54)
270

2,690
5,609
9,633
3,985
4,999
4,635

479
(183)
(76)
220

5%
0.86
0.28
6%
43.2
7.41

2013

6,232
90
(7)
(41)
47

2,411
5,320
8,990
3,534
4,514
4,471

413
(479)
191
125

1%
0.79
0.25
1%
7.5
7.14

Increase/
(decrease) %

5%
266%
N/M
32%
474%

12%
5%
7%
13%
11%
3.7%

16%
(62%)
N/M
76%

4%
7%
3%
5%
476%
3.8%

US$M

2,000

1,500

1,000

0

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

Profit for the year (L.H.S.)

Operating profit margin (R.H.S.)

15%

10%

5%

0%

US$

10

8

6

4

2

0

50%

40%

30%

20%

10%

0%

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share (L.H.S.)

Return on Average Ordinary Shareholders’ Equity (R.H.S.)

2

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

Financial Highlights 
 
 
 
 
 
 
January  1
ooCl announced a new 
cooperation with two partner 
lines on three existing far east 
to indian Subcontinent services, 
the China india express Services 
(CiX and CiX3) and far east 
indian Subcontinent Service 
(fi3), which commenced in 
february 2014.

1

1

february  2

Members of the G6 Alliance released 
details on port rotations for the proposed 
service expansion to the Asia-North 
America West Coast and Trans-Atlantic 
trade lanes in December 2013.

april  3
The  naming  of  the  m.v.  OOCL  Korea,  the  ninth  13,208  TEU  newbuilding  received, 
was held on Geoje Island in South Korea on April 11, 2014. The vessel was named by 
Mrs. Shirley Peng to join the OOCL fleet in providing quality and competitive services 
in the Asia-Europe trade lanes.

3

4

2

March
Orient  Overseas  (International) 
L i m i t e d   a n d   i t s   s u b s i d i a r i e s 
announced  that  the  Group  was 
profitable  for  the  year  2013  by 
recording  a  profit  attributable  to 
shareholders  of  US$47.0  million, 
representing  earnings  per  ordinary 

share of US7.5 cents.

May  4 5
ooCl celebrated the christening of the final and the tenth 
13,208 teU containership from the previous round of Mega 
Class newbuilding order. the m.v. OOCL Singapore was named 
by Mrs. Brenda lo, Managing Director, asia, of permal (Hong 
Kong) limited, who was joined by her husband and our Guest of 
Honor Mr. Weber lo, Citi Country officer and Chief executive 
officer of Citi Hong Kong and Macau, on 20th May 2014. the 
vessel will be deployed in the asia-europe loop 6 service.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

3

Significant Events – 2014The Port of Long Beach presented an 
award  to  OOCL  for  ‘Environmental 
Achievement’  in  contributing  to  the 
steady decline of pollution at the port.

5

June  6 7 8
O O CL  was  ranked  the  top  carrier 
for  2014  in  the  Ocean  Performance 
Survey  conducted  by  the  Agriculture 
Transportation  Coalition,  USA.  OOCL 
was awarded the top three carriers for the 
last  six  years  and  this  is  the  third  win  at 
the very top spot.

OOCL  completed  its  environmental 
reporting  and  disclosure  assurance  by 
using  both  the  Clean  Cargo  Working 
Group  ( C C WG )  and  I S O  1 4 0 6 4 - 1 
standards  to  certify  the  transparency, 
accuracy,  completeness,  consistency  and 
relevance  of  OOCL’s  data  disclosure  on 
vessel emissions.

7

8

July  9
OOCL  opened  its  Integrated  Management  and  Service 
Center  for  North  America  in  South  Jordan,  Utah,  to 
enhance customer service capabilities.

OOCL  Logistics  expanded  its  service  network  in 
Central  America,  including  Honduras,  El  Salvador  and 
Nicaragua.

6

ooCl Global Data Center was successfully certified 
with the new iSo/ieC 27001:2013 standard that puts 
more emphasis on measuring and evaluating how well 
an organization’s information Security Management 
System (iSMS) conforms to risk assessment requirements 
and meets the high corporate it Security management, 
planning and control standards.

4

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

9

Significant Events – 2014august  10 11
ooCl logistics was honored 
by the China federation of 
logistics & purchasing (Cflp) 
as an “aaaaa logistics 
enterprise”.

OOCL  won  “The  Best  Container  Liner 
Award” from The Thai National Shippers’ 
Council  that  recognizes  outstanding 
contributions to improving service quality 
and supply chain efficiency in Thailand.

10

OOCL received two sustainability awards 
for  “Carbon  Footprint  Accounting”  and 
“Best  Business  Eco-Efficiency  “by  the 
World  CSR  Congress  and  CMO  Asia 
at  the  Asian  Sustainability  Leadership 
Awards 2014.

13

In  Asia’s  first  sustainability  ranking 
f o r   b u s i n e s s e s ,   t h e   “C h a n n e l 
NewsAsia  Sustainability  Ranking” 
p l a c e d   O O I L   i n   t h e   To p   1 0 0 
companies index, celebrating leading 
firms  in  corporate  sustainability 
across ten key Asian economies.

16

O O C L   l au n c h e d   t h e   f i r s t   a n nu a l 
Worldwide  Cyber  Security  Awareness 
Training  program  to  demonstrate  our 
commitment  to  IT  security  and  best 
prac t ices  to  prote c t  comp any  and 
customer information.

14

october  15
In  recognition  of  outstanding  individuals 
for  their  leadership  and  achievements  in 
international trade, the Port of Long Beach 
presented  its  highest  honor,  the  Honorary 
Port  Pilot  Award,  to  the  OOCL  Chief 
Executive Officer, Mr. Andrew Tung.

17

December  18
powered by CargoSmart’s 
superior information 
technologies, a new online 
version of Drewry’s Carrier 
performance insight reporting 
tool was launched.

11

September  12 13 14
OOCL  announced  details  of  a  new  joint 
service  to  the  market,  the  China  New 
Zealand  Service  (CNS),  to  commence 
in  November,  offering  customers  a 
competitive  product  that  helps  improve 
supply  chain  management  efficiency  and 
productivity  through  comprehensive 
southbound  and  northbound  network 
connections.

15

18

November  16 17
C a r g o S m a r t   a n d   t h e   s h i p p i n g 
consultancy,  Drewry,  expanded  their 
cooperation agreement to cover a broader 
exchange  of  market  intelligence  data  on 
the container shipping market.

12

OOCL  Logistics  launched  the  Russia 
Express  Intermodal  product  to  provide 
a   c o s t   e f f e c t i v e   a n d   e x p e d i t i o u s 
transportation alternative to move cargoes 
from Asia/China into Russia.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

5

Significant Events – 2014“Against an uncertain backdrop, the industry as a whole 
performed better in 2014 than it did in 2013. It is expected 
that trade growth in 2015 will outperform that of 2014. We 
are cautiously optimistic that global economic demand is 
on a positive trajectory. Notwithstanding the larger order 
book for delivery in the year 2015, we anticipate gradually 
improving industry dynamics and margin.”

Tung Chee Chen
Chairman and CEO

6

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

Chairman’s LetterThe  global  economic  environment  saw  mixed  but 
encouraging results during 2014. The U.S. recorded 
a GDP growth of 2.4% for the year with satisfactory 
results  in  consumer  spending.  While  the  longer 
term  effects  of  the  Federal  Reserve  quantitative 
easing  remain  unclear,  it  seems  that  the  U.S.  has 
reached  a  stage  of  recovery.  The  Eurozone  saw 
continued challenges during 2014. The two percent 
inflationary  target  set  by  the  European  Central 
Bank  seemed  increasingly  untenable  as  the  year 
progressed.  According  to  the  final  tally,  GDP 
growth  of  the  Eurozone  grew  at  a  disappointing 
0.8%  for  the  year,  an  indication  that  sustainable 
recovery  has  not  yet  arrived  but  nevertheless  an 
improvement  from  2013.  Private  consumption  rose 
0.8%,  a  modest  but  encouraging  performance  from 
a  negative  0.6%  in  2013.  The  market  was  positive 
to the ECB quantitative easing program announced 
at  the  end  of  last  year  although  the  actual  effects 
remain unclear at this point.

In  Asia,  China  continued  its  structural  reform 
prog ram,  and  p oste d  a  7.4%  GDP  g rowt h. 
Government  initiatives  for  reform  in  both  the 
financial and State-owned-enterprise sector seem to 
be  progressing  but  gradual  in  pace.  While  China’s 
overall  economic  growth  has  reached  a  level  of 
“new  normal”,  its  consumer  spending  continues  to 
grow.  Commodity  based  economies  had  a  more 
challenging  year,  especially  given  the  slow  down  of 
China.  Overall,  2014  was  an  eventful  year  which 
saw  political  instability  in  Eastern  Europe  and  the 
Middle  East,  diverging  economic  performance 
amongst  the  developed  nations,  and  an  unexciting 
growth picture in emerging markets.

Against  this  uncertain  backdrop,  seaborne  trade 
growth  for  the  liner  industry  was  better  than 

expected  during  2014.  East  West  trades  recorded 
healthy  volume  growth  while  the  Intra-Asia 
trades  posted  positive  but  inconsistent  growth. 
In  aggregate  terms,  global  demand  grew  5.3%,  an 
improvement  from  4.0%  in  2013.  The  industry 
as  a  whole  performed  better  than  that  of  2013, 
though  freight  rate  across  trades  were  mixed. 
The  Asia-Europe  trade  saw  better-than-expected 
performance,  especially  in  the  earlier  part  of  the 
year,  while  those  of  the  Trans-Pacific  and  Intra-
Asia  trades  were  more  muted.  While  carriers  faced 
multiple  challenges  including  port  congestion  in 
Asia  and  Europe,  increasing  labour  and  logistics 
bottleneck  in  the  U.S.,  and  cascading  effects  in  the 
Trans-Pacific  and  Intra-Asia  trades,  the  industry 
benefitted from an overall trade volume growth and 
declining bunker prices during the year.

Looking  ahead,  we  will  see  relatively  more 
newbuildings  delivered  in  2015,  and  a  lower  level 
of  deliveries  in  2016.  In  the  first  quarter  of  2015, 
congestions  in  Asia  and  Europe  have  eased,  and 
labour  issues  on  the  U.S.  West  Coast  seem  to  be 
in  the  process  of  being  resolved.  It  is  expected 
that  trade  growth  in  2015  will  outperform  that  of 
2014,  and  bunker  cost  savings  for  the  industry  will 
become more apparent in 2015.

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  and  its 
subsidiaries  (the  “Group”)  was  profitable  for  the 
year,  recording  a  profit  attributable  to  shareholders 
for 2014 of US$270.5 million. Earnings per ordinary 
share in 2014 was US43.2 cents.

In  2013,  the  Group  reported  a  profit  of  US$47.0 
million.  Earnings  per  ordinary  share  in  2013  was 
US7.5 cents.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

7

Chairman’s LetterThe Board of Directors recommends the payment of 
a final ordinary dividend of US3.4 cents (HK$0.27) 
per share to shareholders for 2014.

The liner shipping industry is intricately linked with 
world  trade.  The  slow  but  continuing  recovery  of 
the  global  economy  is  the  primary  driver  for  liner 
shipping  demand.  The  US  seems  to  have  achieved 
sustainable  recovery  with  a  healthy  5.2%  growth 
in  Trans  Pacific  eastbound  volume,  and  personal 
consumption  forecasted  to  grow  at  more  than  3% 
in  2015.  It  is  critical  for  the  industry  that  Europe 
continues  its  rebalancing  and  move  to  firmer 
ground.  While  the  high  7.4%  growth  in  the  Asia-
Europe  westbound  trade  was  likely  a  distortion  of 
the strong Euro during the first seven months of the 
year,  it  is  an  encouraging  sign  that  both  consensus 
GDP growth and personal consumption growth are 
forecasted to be higher in 2015 than that of 2014. It 
is also important that China stays the course on its 
current  reform  program  without  taking  dramatic 
steps  that  would  cause  undue  economic  volatility. 
A  more  positive  trajectory  of  the  Eurozone  and 
Chinese economies will help emerging markets.

Under  an  environment  where  sustained  global 
economic  growth  is  not  yet  in  place  and  industry 
top  line  performance  remains  uncertain,  the  drive 
for  cost  efficiency  without  compromising  service 
quality  continues.  For  OOCL,  these  efforts  include 
specific  focus  on  landside  and  marine  operations, 
fleet  management,  and  hardware  investment. 
Management accountability, deliverables and results 
are  defined  and  reviewed  on  a  regular  basis.  Aside 
from a concerted effort to improve cross functional 
cooperation,  the  Group  is  developing  information 
technology  for  the  purposes  of  improvement  in 
these areas.

The  Group  continues  to  focus  on  contribution 
enhancement  by  way  of  a  disciplined  approach  to 
differentiation  and  segmentation.  Yield  remains 
the  most  important  KPI.  The  drive  for  top  line 
performance  should  balance  between  maximizing 
unit  revenue  and  utilization,  as  well  as  more 
rapid  market  driven  adjustments  in  deployment, 
especially  during  seasonal  and  short  term  market 
volatility.

Building  a  sustainable  logistics  business  remains  a 
key  objective  for  the  Group.  Operating  under  the 
brand  name  OOCL  Logistics,  the  Group’s  logistics 
business  is  a  stand  alone  profit  center  active  in 
international  supply  chain  management,  import/
export  services,  domestic  transportation  and 
warehousing  services.  The  business  has  grown  to 
130  offices  in  30  countries.  We  expect  the  logistics 
business  will  become  a  meaningful  contributor  to 
the Group’s bottom line over the long term.

The  Group  is  pleased  to  have  the  opportunity  to 
work  with  the  Port  of  Long  Beach  community  in 
the  Middle  Harbor  Redevelopment  Project.  The 
project  will  expand  the  total  capacity  and  enhance 
the productivity and efficiency of the Port. The first 
phase  is  expected  to  be  operational  in  2016,  and 
with  its  final  phase  scheduled  for  completion  in 
2019, the terminal will be the most competitive, and 
environmentally friendly container facility in North 
America.  We expect  the  project  to provide tangible 
benefits to OOCL’s competitiveness going forward.

The  Group  remains  committed  to  developing 
industry-leading  information  technology.  Our 
existing  IT  capability  already  allows  us  to  achieve 
meaningful  competitive  advantage  in  terms  of 
shipment  transparency,  execution  excellence  and 

8

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

Chairman’s Letteroperational  efficiency.  Looking  forward,  we  are 
exploring  ways  to  harness  forward  looking  data 
available  both  in-house  and  in  the  public  domain, 
and  using  this  data  to  develop  predictive  tools  for 
better  management  decision  making,  as  well  as  for 
further  cost  efficiency  initiatives.  We  believe  these 
efforts  are  critical  to  enhancing  product  quality, 
improving  business  efficiency,  and  allowing  us  to 
gain  a  deeper  understanding  of  the  requirements 
of  our  customers  and  the  forward  trends  of  the 
industry at large.

Alliance  is  an  integral  part  of  the  industry,  and 
acts  as  one  of  the  key  elements  for  carriers  to 
optimize  efficiency  and  improve  service  coverage. 
It allows relatively small and medium sized carriers 
to  compete  effectively  with  the  largest  carriers.  In 
2014,  the  G6  Alliance  extended  its  network  with 
services  covering  all  major  East  West  trades,  and 
opened  the  Singapore  based  Service  Center  to 
ensure  that  product  quality  is  consistent  and  at  the 
highest  level.  Looking  forward,  we  will  continue  to 
work  with  alliance  members  to  ensure  efficiency, 
quality and competitiveness.

We  remain  focused  and  deliberate  in  our  efforts 
to  maintain  a  sustainable  balance  sheet  that  allows 
the  Group  the  ability  to  retain  the  widest  degree 

of  initiative  and  flexibility  as  a  competitive  edge. 
We  are  committed  to  ensuring  an  appropriate 
balance between adequate liquidity, efficient capital 
structure  suitable  for  our  industry,  and  sustainable 
returns  to  shareholders  throughout  the  economic 
and market cycles.

Looking forward, in spite of the fact that the global 
geopolitical  environment  remains  uncertain, 
we  believe  that  world  economic  demand  is  on  a 
positive trajectory. Notwithstanding the larger order 
book  for  delivery  in  the  year  2015,  we  anticipate 
gradually improving industry dynamics and margin. 
The  Group  continues  to  be  an  industry  leader 
in  terms  of  operational  excellence  and  financial 
robustness.  We  continue  to  be  well  placed  in  our 
ability  to  deliver  superior  performance,  invest  in 
the future, and form effective alliances in our drive 
to  provide  the  best  possible  service  quality  at  the 
most  cost-efficient  level  possible.  We  look  forward 
to  furthering  our  position  as  one  of  the  leading 
carriers in the industry.

C C tung
Chairman
Hong Kong, 6th March 2015

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

9

Chairman’s Letter“The Group focuses on contribution 
enhancement by way of a disciplined 
approach to differentiation and 
segmentation. We also continue the drive 
for cost efficiency without compromising 
service quality.”

10 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Operations ReviewOperations ReviewCoNtaiNer traNSport aND loGiStiCS

2014  was  an  eventful  year  in  container  shipping.  The  year 
was  characterized  by  stronger  than  expected  East  West 
trade  volume  growth,  but  lower  than  expected  North 
South  trade  growth.  Freight  rates  were  volatile  throughout 
the  year  and  performances  were  mixed  across  the  various 
trades.  Bunker  prices  started  high  at  the  beginning  of  the 
year,  exasperated  by  uncertainty  and  volatility  in  Ukraine 
and  the  Middle  East.  By  the  end  of  the  year,  bunker  prices 
followed  crude  oil  prices  downwards,  dropping  to  a  level 
unseen since 2010.

There  were  meaningful  developments  on  the  Alliance 
front.  In  July,  Maersk  and  MSC  announced  the  formation 
of the 2M Alliance a month after the Chinese Government 
expressed  reservations  at  the  mega  alliance  P3  of  Maersk, 
MSC  and  CMA-CGM.  CMA-CGM  then  announced  that  a 
new O3 Alliance would be formed together with CSCL and 
USAC. All these new mega alliance arrangements, including 
the  joining  of  Evergreen  in  the  CKYH  alliance,  announced 
they will implement new service networks in the beginning 
of 2015.

The  G6  Alliance,  where  OOCL  is  a  member  among  the 
six  carrier  alliance,  achieved  global  East  West  coverage 
beginning  second  quarter  of  the  year.  In  addition  to  Asia 
Europe  Service,  the  G6  Alliance  expanded  its  service 
network  to  provide  Asia-North  America  West  Coast  and 
Trans-Atlantic services. A Service Center was also set up in 
Singapore that ensures better cooperation and coordination 
on operations of the alliance amongst the 6 member lines.

The year 2014 also presented challenges, especially in terms 
of  service  delivery.  Snowstorms  hit  the  U.S.  Atlantic  Coast 
and the Mid-West in the early part of the year. The Pacific 
North  West  experienced  service  disruptions  from  the 
truckers  strike  in  Vancouver  that  transpired  in  spring.  The 
negotiation of a new contract which started in May between 
the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) 
and  the  terminal  employers  on  the  U.S.  West  Coast  was 
challenging.  Terminal  slowdown  continued  to  deteriorate 
the situation, reaching only half of the normal productivity 
level by November for U.S. West Coast terminals. Ships and 
cargoes calling at those ports stayed idle for as long as one 
to three weeks for berths.

Terminals  outside  the  U.S.  also  saw  challenges.  Mega 
size  vessels  require  more  berth  length  and  yard  space 
for  effective  handling  and  as  these  larger  vessels  were 
introduced,  terminals  became  increasingly  congested.  We 
were  particularly  affected  by  congestion  in  Hong  Kong, 

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

11

Operations Reviewthe  key  transhipment  hub  for  our  Intra-Asia  trade.  We 
also  experienced  a  shortfall  in  operating  capacity  as  ships 
were  held  up  waiting  for  berth  space  for  cargo  handling. 
Furthermore,  in  many  parts  of  the  world,  service  delivery 
was also handicapped by a general shortage of truck driver.

By  fourth  quarter  2014,  congestion  in  Asia  began  easing, 
and  at  time  of  this  writing  in  March  2015,  the  labour 
action  on  the  U.S.  West  Coast  is  on  its  way  to  being 
resolved.  While  inland  bottleneck  issues  in  the  U.S.  and 
Europe  remain  challenging,  we  expect  that  the  operating 
environment will improve in 2015.

Capacity  overhang  continued  but  did  not  impact  all 
trade  lanes  equally.  Trans-Pacific  and  Asia-Europe  trades 
experienced cargo growth from Asia by more than 6% and 
7%  respectively,  a  remarkable  growth  rate  in  recent  years. 

The  vessels  that  cascaded  into  Intra-Asia  and  the  Australia 
trades,  however,  exacerbated  the  overcapacity  situation 
in  the  market  and  freight  rates  dropped  further  beyond 
sustainable levels.

In  2014,  our  lifting  increased  by  5.5%  while  revenue 
improved  by  3.5%.  Compared  to  the  previous  year, 
OOCL  average  revenue  per  TEU  fell  1.9%.  Despite  the 
increase  in  capacity  and  lifting,  our  operating  costs 
continued  to  improve.  A  reduction  in  total  bunker  cost 
of  10%,  attributable  to  both  decrease  in  bunker  price  and 
consumption,  was  achieved.  With  terminal  congestion 
and  other  land  side  delay  and  disruption,  it  proved  to  be 
challenging  to  achieve  the  desired  improvements  in  unit 
cargo cost.

ooCl liner

Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4

Total

Trade

Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia/Australasia

Total

Growth in 2014
revenue

revenue/teU

teU

8.9%
11.2%
5.3%
(2.6%)

5.5%

1.7%
6.8%
5.7%
(0.2%)

3.5%

(6.6%)
(4.0%)
0.5%
2.5%

(1.9%)

Variance

2.7%
14.3%
(2.4%)
0.7%

3.5%

liftiNG (’000 teU)

reVeNUe (US$ million)

2014

1,289
980
385
2,932

5,586

2013

1,233
844
395
2,822

5,294

Variance

4.5%
16.1%
(2.5%)
3.9%

5.5%

2014

1,973
1,173
600
2,061

5,807

2013

1,921
1,026
615
2,047

5,609

trans-pacific – Eastbound Trans-Pacific trade experienced 
better  than  expected  demand  increase.  Commitments  to 
large  beneficiary  cargo  owners  constrained  our  capacity  to 
maximize  revenue  from  the  strong  spot  market  during  the 
second half of  the  year. The overall operating environment 
faced a number of challenges with weather, congestion and 
labour  disruption  which  impeded  schedule  reliability  and 
stressing  our  network.  Westbound  market  rates  were  more 
erratic  and  the  network  challenges  were  problematic  in 
creating a stable and sustainable business for US exports.

slots  utilization  on  both  eastbound  and  westbound  vessels. 
The  new  building  deliveries  deployed  into  the  G6  Alliance 
services were completed in the second half of 2014.

trans-atlantic  –  Trans-Atlantic  westbound  trade  saw  a 
rebound  in  cargo  demand  in  2014  that  helped  with  the 
rate  recovery.  There  was  a  small  capacity  rationalization 
transitioning  into  the  G6  Alliance  which  improved  overall 
load  factor.  Conversely,  the  contracting  eastbound  market 
increased pressure on freight rates and impacted utilization.

asia-europe – The rate level in the Asia-Europe westbound 
trade remained volatile despite strong cargo demand which 
exceeded  capacity  increase.  Lifting  growth  boosted  up 

intra-asia  and  australasia  –  Intra-Asia  market  was 
seriously  impacted  by  the  combined  effects  of  cascading 
vessels  from  other  long  haul  trades  and  the  soft  demand 

12 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Operations Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
growth  in  the  Asian  market.  Contrary  to  the  fast  trade 
growth  over  the  past  two  decades,  the  short  sea  volume 
growth was disappointing in 2014.

For  the  long  haul  sector,  freight  rates  for  the  Australasia 
services  dropped  substantially.  Carriers  took  ad  hoc 
measures  to  balance  over  supply  with  vessel  withdrawals 
from  the  trade  but  it  was  still  not  sufficient  to  correct  the 
imbalance.

Congestion  in  several  key  Asian  ports  also  severely 
impacted  our  service  quality  and  led  to  a  reduction  in 
operating capacity during the second half of 2014.

SHip operatioNS

As  at  31st  December,  2014,  the  OOCL  fleet  composition 
was as follows:

fleet
Owned/
  Long Term Chartered/
  Operating Lease
Short Term Chartered
Chartered out

Operating Capacity

No. of Vessels

teU Capacity

60
44
(6)

98

436,947
156,235
(63,520)

529,662

During  the  year  of  2014,  the  Group  took  delivery  of  two 
‘Mega’  Class  13,208  TEU  new  vessels  from  the  Geoje 
shipyard  of  Samsung  Heavy  Industries  Co.,  Ltd.  in  South 
Korea.  The  ‘Mega’  Class  13,208  TEU  vessels  are  currently 
the largest containerships owned by the Group.

In  2015,  the  Group  will  take  delivery  of  four  8,888  TEU 
vessels  from  Hudong-Zhonghua  Shipbuilding  (Group)  Co., 
Ltd in China. These newbuildings will complete our current 
orderbook of SX class newbuildings.

As  part  of  the  refleeting  plan,  one  9-year  old  and  two 
11-year  old  8,063  TEU  SX  Class  vessels  were  sold  and 
chartered back for a three year period during the year.

There  were  no  newbuilding  orders  placed  in  year  2014.  As 
of the end of 2014, OOCL owned 53 vessels with an average 
age of 6.3 years and an average size of 7,467 TEU.

Bunker Saving

Bunker cost declined sharply during the last quarter of the 
year, however, there is a time lag due to physical operational 
patterns before the full effects of the lower bunker price can 
be realised.

Despite  the  decline  in  bunker  costs,  bunker  remains  a 
substantial cost component  for  the  industry. In addition to 
our  usual  bunker  and  cylinder  oil  saving  programs,  such 
as  optimal  routing,  optimized  speeds,  efficient  use  of  shaft 
generator,  minimum  ballast  and  optimal  trim,  further 
efforts  to  ensure  more  optimal  berthing  arrangements, 
terminal productivity and vessel turn times remains a focus 
for management.

environmental protection

We  remain  supportive  of  international  efforts  to  measure 
and control shipboard emissions. In 2014, we maintained an 
average sulphur content of 2.5% in our bunker consumption 
which compares favourably with the International Maritime 
Organization  (IMO)  prescribed  standard  of  3.5%.  Aside 
from  the  installation  of  Alternative  Maritime  Power 
(AMP)  system  that  allows  shore-based  power  alternatives, 
our  newbuildings  have  been  equipped  with  Ballast  Water 
Treatment  systems  to  effectively  treat  ballast  water  that  is 
in  line  with  our  environmental  policy.  A  retrofit  program 
is  also  underway  to  allow  some  of  our  existing  vessels  to 
improve fuel efficiency and so to reduce emissions.

In  addition  to  regulatory  compliance,  we  have  been 
participating  in  various  voluntary  programs  including 
the  Green  Flag  Program  at  the  Port  of  Long  Beach,  Vessel 
Speed  Reduction  Program  at  the  Port  of  Los  Angeles  and 
the Fair Winds Charter in Hong Kong.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

13

Operations Reviewoperations review

“The Middle Harbor Redevelopment 
Project will expand the total capacity and 
enhance the productivity and efficiency 
of the Port. The terminal will be the most 
competitive, and environmentally friendly 
container facility in North America.”

14 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Operations ReviewMariNe terMiNalS

OOCL continues to operate two container terminals: the Long 
Beach  Container  Terminal  in  California  and  the  Kaohsiung 
Container Terminal in Taiwan with a combined throughput of 
2.3  million  TEU,  representing  an  approximate  10.3%  increase 
over  2013.  Tianjin  Port  Alliance  International  Container 
Terminal Co., Ltd. and Ningbo Yuandong Terminal Ltd., where 
OOCL  has  a  20%  interest  in  each,  together  recorded  a  total 
throughput  of  about  4.8  million  TEU,  an  11.7%  increase  over 
2013.

Middle Harbor redevelopment project

OOCL and its subsidiary LBCT continue to work with the Port 
of  Long  Beach  (POLB)  on  the  Middle  Harbor  Redevelopment 
Project  (MHRP)  in  Long  Beach,  California.  The  project  is  to 
be  developed  in  three  phases.  Equipment  for  the  first  phase, 
including  six  ship-to-shore  cranes,  32  yard  cranes  and  38 
transportation  vehicles,  arrived  at  the  terminal  site  during 
2014.  Equipment  commissioning  and  systems  integration  are 
progressing well with encouraging results.

MaJor CUStoMerS aND SUpplierS

Approximately 8.5% and 22.8% of the Group’s total expenditure 
on purchases of goods and services for the year are attributable 
to the largest supplier and five largest suppliers respectively.

Approximately  1.3%  and  5.2%  of  the  Group’s  total  reported 
revenues  for  the  year  are  attributable  to  the  largest  customer 
and five largest customers respectively.

The  Group  has  entered  into  slot  sharing  arrangements  with 
other container shipping companies. The receipts and payments 
from  slot  sharing  arrangements  have  not  been  included  in 
determining the major customers and suppliers since it would 
be  misleading  to  do  so  as  the  receipts  and  payments  are  in 
respect  of  sharing  arrangements  for  the  utilisation  of  vessel 
space.

No director or any of his associates holds any equity interest in 
the suppliers or customers included above.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

15

Operations Review“Building a sustainable logistics business 
remains a key objective for the Group.”

16 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Operations ReviewOperations ReviewloGiStiCS

OOCL  Logistics  registered  a  10%  revenue  increase  in  2014 
attributable  to  gains  across  our  business  lines  of  international 
supply  chain  management  services,  import/export  services, 
and  domestic  logistics  services.  However,  the  gross  profit 
margins of all three segments dropped because of competition 
pressure,  rising  labour  and  procurement  cost.  Management  is 
working towards better business productivity, cost control and 
asset efficiency in order to improve net profit and return.

For our international supply chain business, we have improved 
standardization  of  our  service  quality  globally  to  each 
customer.  For  import  and  export  business,  we  expanded  our 
carrier portfolio and network to offer customers one-stop-shop 
total  solutions  with  better  service  coverage  and  frequency.  In 
terms  of  domestic  logistics,  we  further  developed  our  cold 
chain  logistics  business,  dedicated  Less  Than  Truck  Load 
(LTL) services, and penetrated the transportation services and 
warehouse markets in the second and third tier cities in China 
and other parts of Asia.

By leveraging on our superior IT capabilities and management 
expertise,  our  value-add  services  are  integrated  into  our 
customers’ supply chain operations, and assist them to enhance 
their productivity and organisational efficiency.

 iNVeStMeNt propertY

Wall  Street  Plaza  was  valued  upwards  by  US$10  million 
as  at  30th  June  2014  to  reflect  an  assessed  market  value  of 
US$180 million. Based on an independent valuation as at 31st 
December  2014,  the  assessed  market  value  of  the  property 
remains  at  US$180  million.  After  offsetting  a  total  of  US$0.3 
million  improvement  works  on  the  building  in  2014,  the  net 
fair value gain for 2014 has come to US$9.7 million.

As at 31st December 2013, Wall Street Plaza was valued at US$170 
million with a net fair value loss of US$6.9 million in 2013.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

17

Operations Review“The Group remains committed to developing industry-
leading information technology. Our existing IT 
capability already allows us to achieve meaningful 
competitive advantage in terms of shipment transparency, 
execution excellence and operational efficiency. Looking 
forward, we are exploring ways to develop predictive tools 
for better management decision making, as well as for 
further cost efficiency initiatives.”

18 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Operations ReviewiNforMatioN teCHNoloGY

The  Group  continues  to  invest  in  the  newest  generation  of 
Enterprise  Management  System  to  enable  a  higher  degree  of 
operational  efficiency,  further  automate  processes,  improve 
regulatory  compliance,  and  provide  a  platform  on  which  to 
create and promote innovative new products and thus enhance 
the  customer  service  experience.  IRIS  4,  our  in  house  IT 
management  system  in  its  fourth  generation,  rolled  out  in 
2014 and we expect it will bring about further efficiencies and 
transparencies to management.

The  Group’s  CargoSmart  subsidiary,  a  standalone  third  party 
business  platform,  is  actively  engaged  in  the  design  and 
development of new products to better serve both shipper and 
container  shipping  companies.  In  2014,  CargoSmart  extended 
its  Sailing  Schedule  System  to  provide  better  coverage  and 
analysis on the operational performances of the top 20 carriers 
and  the  productivity  of  various  terminals/ports.  Moreover, 
CargoSmart and Drewry entered into a partnership to improve 
product  development  whereby  Drewry  would  have  access 
to  CargoSmart’s  analytics  platform  to  generate  their  carrier 
performance monitor reports for customers.

The  importance  of  digital  security  cannot  be  understated. 
Our  Information  Security  Management  System  framework 
was  enhanced  when  our  data  center  became  ISO/IEC  27001 
–  2013  certified  in  June.  We  also  launched  a  Cyber  Security 
Awareness  Training  program  to  promote  and  ensure  group-
wide knowledge and participation in cyber security.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

19

Operations Review“The Group recognises that businesses 
must take responsibility for their 
industry’s effects on the environment.  
We actively participate in green programs 
and have received recognition for our 
achievements and quality practices.”

20 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Corporate ResponsibilityCorporate ResponsibilityThe  Group  prides  itself  upon  being  a  responsible  corporate 
citizen and it employs the highest standards of business ethics 
in  all  that  it  does.  Headed  by  a  senior  management  Steering 
Committee  and  a  Global  Security,  Safety  and  Environment 
Care Officer, the Group embraces the core values of Corporate 
Social Responsibility at all levels.

The  Group  places  the  utmost  importance  on  environmental 
care  and  community  support.  Despite  the  current  difficult 
economic  environment,  we  must  continue  to  address  the 
long-term  threat  of  climate  change.  We  strive  to  play  our  part 
in  tackling  this  global  problem  through  engagement  with 
organisations  such  as  the  Business  Environment  Council, 
the  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  and  the  World  Wildlife 
Fund.  Throughout  the  year,  the  Group  has  won  awards  and 
accolades for its environmental performance, and OOIL Group 
employees  around  the  world  have  been  actively  supporting 
their  local  communities  through  various  environmental 
initiatives.

our environmental initiatives

The Group recognises that businesses must take responsibility 
for  their  industry’s  effects  on  the  environment.  Our  company 
is  dedicated  to  meeting  the  needs  of  the  present  without 
compromising  those  of  the  future.  We  encourage  sustainable 
economic  development  through  innovative  environmental 
care  measures  and  believe  that  by  taking  a  proactive  role  in 
caring for the environment, we can help minimise our carbon 
footprint,  improve  air  quality  and  make  the  world  a  better 
place to live for ourselves and future generations.

We  actively  participate  in  green  programs  and  have  received 
recognition for our achievements and best practices, including:

the  Safety,  Quality  and  environmental  (SQe)  Management 
System  Certificate  –  OOCL  was  the  first  container  shipping 
line  in  the  world  to  have  achieved  the  SQE  certification 
which  consolidates  the  ISM-Code,  ISO  9001  and  ISO  14001 
requirements.

Vessel  Speed  reduction  programs  –  Each  year,  OOCL  has 
been  fully  compliant  to  reducing  vessel  speed  when  entering 
within  both  20  and  40  nautical  miles  of  the  Port  of  Long 
Beach  and  Port  of  Los  Angeles  harbors.  Our  efforts  have 
effectively contributed to improving the air quality by reducing 
emissions such as smog forming nitrogen oxides (NOx), diesel 
particulate matter and greenhouse gases. Port officials estimate 
that if all vessels comply with the program, the amount of NOx 
produced  by  container  ships  would  be  reduced  by  nearly  550 
tons a year.

Ballast  Water  Management  program  –  All  container  ships 
discharge  ballast  water,  which  can  contain  organisms  that 
may  be  harmful  to  other  environments.  We  have  a  policy  of 
exchanging  ballast  water  only  in  the  open  sea  (200  nautical 
miles  away  from  the  nearest  coastline)  to  achieve  zero  ballast 
water  exchange  when  berthed  at  the  port.  Although  it  is  not 
mandated  by  the  International  Maritime  Organization  (IMO), 
OOCL’s  new  buildings  are  already  equipped  with  an  IMO-
approved  Ballast  Water  Treatment  System  to  effectively  treat 
ballast water before discharging.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

21

Corporate Responsibility“Class  of  excellence”  Wastewi$e  label  –  OOCL  received 
environmental  recognition  for  our  participation  and 
performance  in  the  Wastewi$e  Label  Scheme  under  the 
Hong  Kong  Awards  for  Environmental  Excellence  (HKAEE) 
program. Under the Scheme, participants must achieve at least 
nine  goals  or  more,  covering  at  least  two  of  three  Wastewi$e 
categories in order to be granted with the “Class of Excellence” 
Wastewi$e  Label.  The  three  categories  include  Waste 
Avoidance  &  Reduction  Measures,  Collection  and  Recycling 
of  Recyclable  Materials,  and  Purchase  or  Manufacture  of 
Recycled Products.

environmental  achievement  awards  –  In  recognition  of 
shipping  lines  that  have  contributed  to  improving  the  port 
community’s  environment  at  Long  Beach,  California,  OOCL 
was honoured to receive the newly introduced “Environmental 
Achievement Awards” from the Port of Long Beach (POLB) for 
our commitment to emissions reduction through participation 
and  support  of  the  POLB’s  “Green  Flag  Incentive”  and  “Green 
Ship Incentive” programs.

OOCL has been supporting the Green Flag Incentive Program 
since its inception, and to this day our vessels have been fully 
compliant  by  reducing  vessel  speeds  within  the  stipulated 
speed reduction zones. As a proud qualifying shipping line for 
the Green Incentive Program, all of OOCL’s newly built vessels 
since  the  year  2000  have  been  installed  with  environmental 
friendly  NOx-controlled  propulsive  engines  and  adopted 
advanced  slide  fuel  injection  valves  to  help  reduce  our  fleet’s 
NOx emission level by 30%.

According  to  the  POLB,  the  two  incentive  programs  have 
contributed  to  the  steady  decline  of  pollution  in  the  port 
community  where  nitrogen  oxides  fell  54  percent,  diesel 
exhaust  dropped  81  percent,  and  sulfur  oxides  down  88 
percent since 2005.

Global  Sustainability  leadership  awards  –  OOCL  won  two 
awards  at  the  2nd  Global  Sustainability  Leadership  Awards 
organised  by  the  Asian  Confederation  of  Business  on  18th 
February. Over 2,500 entries were received from different parts 
of the world. An independent jury then shortlisted the entries 
and made the final selection. OOCL won awards for the “Best 
Supply Chain” and “Best Sustainable Strategies”.

asian  Sustainability  l eadership  awards  –  OOCL  also 
received  two  sustainability  awards  for  “Carbon  Footprint 

22 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Accounting”  and  “Best  Business  Eco-Efficiency”  from  the 
World CSR Congress and CMO Asia at the Asian Sustainability 
Leadership Awards 2014 on 1st August 2014 in Singapore.

Canadian  international  freight  forwarders  association 
(Ciffa)  fCa   l eadership  award  for  e nvironmental 
excellence  –  OOCL  was  honoured  with  the  CIFFA  FCA 
Leadership  Award  for  Environmental  Excellence  (Central 
Division  –  Ontario  and  Manitoba)  at  a  ceremony  held  on 
Thursday 10th April 2014 in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada.

Hang  Seng  Corporate  Sustainability  index  –  The  Group  is 
a  founding  constituent  of,  as  well  as  listed  in  the  Hang  Seng 
Corporate Sustainability Index since its establishment in 2010. 
Only  the  top  30  companies  are  listed  in  the  Index  and  they 
are  recognised  to  have  received  the  highest  scores  among  all 
others on aspects including environmental care, social impact, 
and corporate governance.

Qualship  21  –  Offered  by  the  US  Coast  Guard,  this  program 
recognises  high-quality  ships  for  their  excellent  safety  and 
antipollution  standards  and  encourages  quality  operations. 
Most  of  OOCL’s  vessels  calling  the  US  have  already  been 
Qualship 21 certified since 2004.

environmental  Data  Verification  –  OOCL  completed  its 
environmental  reporting  and  disclosure  assurance  by  using 
both  the  Clean  Cargo  Working  Group  (CCWG)  and  ISO 
14064-1  standards  to  certify  the  transparency,  accuracy, 
completeness,  consistency  and  relevance  of  OOCL’s  data 
disclosure  on  vessel  emissions.  OOCL  was  accredited  by  the 
Lloyd’s  Register  Quality  Assurance  (LRQA),  an  independent 

Corporate Responsibilitybusiness  assurance  service  provider  based  in  the  United 
Kingdom,  after  checking  the  carbon  dioxide,  sulphur  oxides 
and  Greenhouse  Gas  (GHG)  (Scope  1)  emission  levels  of 
OOCL vessels.

In  addition,  OOCL  has  once  again  attained  our  certification 
on the integrity and disclosure of our 2013 environmental data 
by  also  adopting  the  Clean  Shipping  Index  (CSI)  verification 
standard. OOCL was accredited the Verification Certifications 
after  audits  conducted  by  DNV  GL,  a  world  leading 
classification  society,  by  using  internationally  recognised  and 
accepted  verification  guidelines  to  check  OOCL  vessels  on 
a  wide  variety  of  scoring  parameters,  including  emissions  of 
carbon dioxide, sulphur oxides, nitrogen oxides and particulate 
matter,  wastes  handling,  chemicals  usage,  and  wastewater 
control.

The  Group  is  committed  to  reducing  emissions,  promoting 
environmental  care  and  conserving  natural  resources.  We  do 
this in all areas of our business – on land and at sea – from our 
vessels, to our terminals, offices and containers.

our  Vessels  –  The  best  way  to  reduce  harmful  emissions  in 
the shipping industry is to reduce the consumption of fuel. For 
well over a decade OOCL implemented a fuel saving program 
including weather routing systems, slow steaming (addition of 
extra vessels on service loops and travelling at slower speeds), 
minimising  ballast  water  to  help  achieve  a  lighter  vessel  load, 
and  achieving  better  trim  of  ship  draughts  by  good  stowage, 
thereby  burning  less  fuel.  By  taking  these  measures,  we  have 
reduced  our  CO2  emissions  by  more  than  30%  since  2004.  In 
addition  to  reducing  our  emissions,  we  are  able  to  help  our 
customers  achieve  a  lower  carbon  footprint  in  their  supply 
chains.

Since  2000,  all  our  vessels  have  been  installed  with 
environment-friendly  NOx-controlled  propulsive  engines 
while  advanced  slide  fuel  injection  valves  are  also  adopted  to 
help  reduce  NOx  emissions  by  30%.  All  our  new  buildings 
since 2011 are also equipped with Alternative Maritime Power 
(AMP)  Systems,  also  known  as  “Cold  Ironing”,  which  allows 
the  vessel  to  use  shore  supplied  electricity  instead  of  burning 
fuel when at berth.

OOCL  is  fully  compliant  to  the  EU,  North  America  and 
IMO  mandated  requirements  of  using  1.0%  or  lower  sulphur 
content  fuel  in  all  Emission  Control  Areas  (ECA)  and  SOx 
Emission Control Areas (SECA). We are also compliant to the 
requirements  of  using  0.1%  sulphur  content  fuel  when  our 
vessels  are  berthed  at  designated  EU  ports.  In  addition,  when 
sailing  within  24  nautical  miles  of  the  California  Baseline 
and  at  berth,  our  vessels  comply  with  the  0.5%  (for  marine 
diesel  oil)  or  1.0%  (for  marine  gasoline  oil)  sulphur  content 
requirements to improve the environment in the community.

Moreover, OOCL is one of the leading carriers that voluntarily 
signed  on  to  the  Fair  Winds  Charter  which  encourages  all 
vessels  to  use  fuel  of  0.5%  sulphur  content  or  less  when 
berthed in Hong Kong. 

OOCL  vessels  also  ensure  that  the  sulphur  content  of  our 
fuel  is  well  below  the  IMO  prescribed  standard  of  3.5%  when 
sailing  in  the  high  seas.  In  2014,  OOCL  achieved  an  average 
sulphur content of 2.52%.

our offices – Our focus is to create and maintain a “paperless 
office”  environment  by  eliminating  the  use  of  faxes  and 
unnecessary  paper  documents.  As  a  business  which  has 
traditionally  relied  on  paper  documentation  with  customers, 

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

23

Corporate Responsibilitysuch  as  bills  of  lading  and  invoices,  we  have  successfully 
taken  innovative  measures  to  effectively  reduce  our  paper 
consumption since 2006.

We have implemented a “reduce, re-use and recycle” campaign 
in  all  our  offices  around  the  world,  encouraging  employees 
to  switch  off  computers  after  work,  powering  off  copiers  and 
lights  after  use,  and  to  install  energy  saving  office  equipment, 
such  as  energy  efficient  light  bulbs.  We  also  have  mandatory 
training  for  all  staff  in  safety,  security  and  environmental 
issues,  and  organise  OOCL  Green  Week  every  July  in  offices 
around the world.

our terminals  –  As  part  of  the  historic  lease  agreement  with 
the  Port  of  Long  Beach  (POLB),  the  POLB  Green  Port  Policy 
and the San Pedro Bay Ports Clean Air Action Plan, our Long 
Beach  Container  Terminal  (LBCT  LLC)  meets  numerous 
environmental  requirements  and  in  some  areas  exceed 
compliance standards that help improve air quality and reduce 
emissions  in  the  local  community.  Such  efforts  and  initiatives 
include:

Upgrading to energy efficient lighting.
• 
Using shore power for ships at berth.
• 
•  Operating with cleaner yard equipment.
•  Meeting  Green  Flag  Vessel  Speed  Reduction  program 

requirements.
Attaining  “Green  building”  (LEED)  environmental 
standards.
Recycling  waste  materials  such  as  concrete,  steel,  copper, 
and other materials during terminal construction.
Purchasing Renewable Energy Credits.

• 

• 

• 

In  2005,  our  Kaohsiung  Terminal  in  Taiwan  (KAOCT)  had 
converted  its  entire  container  yard  to  a  ‘green’  enterprise 
by  replacing  its  straddle  carriers  operation  with  electric 
rail  mounted  gantry  cranes  (RMGs)  to  improve  energy  and 
operational  efficiencies.  Currently,  there  are  a  total  of  18 
electrically  powered  RMGs  in  the  terminal  on  a  fixed-rail 
system  and  these  gantry  cranes  are  emission-free,  quiet,  and 
provide  a  much  safer  working  environment  at  the  port.  The 
equipment  has  not  only  helped  improve  energy  efficiency  but 
also  terminal  efficiency  as  shipside  productivity  improved 
by  6.6%  from  2005  to  2014  and  during  this  same  period,  the 
annual  throughput  also  increased  by  80.7%.  This  has  enabled 
KAOCT to effectively handle more vessels at one time and the 
higher  productivity  level  helped  shorten  the  vessel  berthing 
period to achieve bunker saving as well as emission reduction. 
Moreover,  KAOCT  has  also  minimised  the  use  of  Side-
Pickers  and  utilised  electric-powered  RMGs  to  handle  empty 
containers at the terminal to improve energy efficiency. When 
compared  to  2007,  the  terminal  reduced  diesel  consumption 
by about 39% last year.

In 2012, over 200 sets of lighting systems in the terminal office 
were  replaced  by  energy  efficient  LED  technology  which  has 
achieved a 59% savings on lighting electricity.

Sustainable  procurement  policy  –  The  Group  is  dedicated 
to  promoting  sustainable  practices  into  our  supply  chain. 
Our  Corporate  Sustainable  Procurement  Policy  has  been 
implemented in every aspect of our business and at every stage 
of the supply chain.

ooCl Carbon Calculator – The OOCL Carbon Calculator is 
designed  to  assist  OOCL  customers  measure  CO2  emissions 
in their supply chains. The scope of the calculator spans across 
vessels,  trucks,  feeders,  and  rail  with  over  70,000  port  pairs 
recorded.  OOCL  spearheaded  the  project  in  2010,  partnering 
with the Department  of Logistics  and Maritime Studies of the 
Hong  Kong  Polytechnic  University.  The  Calculator  has  been 
checked and verified for its methodology, accuracy and carbon 
footprint  calculations  by  The  American  Bureau  of  Shipping 
(ABS) Consulting.

ooCl  Containers  –  Today,  OOCL  only  uses  CFC-free 
refrigerants  for  all  of  our  refrigerated  (reefer)  containers. 
OOCL’s newest reefer containers have one of the lowest power 
consumption  in  the  industry,  and  we  install  ThermoKing 
“EcoPower”  gensets  for  better  energy  efficiency.  All  our 

24 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Corporate Responsibilitycontainers  have  been  applied  with  tin-free  paint  and  we  have 
introduced the use of eco-friendly bamboo floorboards instead 
of the traditional hardwood ones.

quality  and  secure  information  to  customers  and  partners, 
our Global Data Centre has also achieved and maintained ISO 
27001 certification.

The  Group’s  sustainability  and  environmentally  conscious 
practices in many aspects, often exceed legal requirements and 
general  industry  standards  in  the  countries  where  it  operates. 
As  a  responsible  and  committed  member  of  the  international 
community,  the  Group  will  continually  strive  for  further 
improvement in all aspects of its business.

Security

In a world where global cargo security threats always increase 
the complexities of the international trade community, OOCL 
is strongly committed to the security of our operations against 
possible  compromise  and  to  the  maintenance  of  the  highest 
level  of  compliance  in  security  related  areas.  From  our  offices 
to  ports,  warehouses,  shore  facilities  and  onboard  our  vessels, 
we  work  with  the  responsible  authorities  to  ensure  that  every 
measure  is  in  place  to  maintain  the  highest  commercial  and 
operational  security  standards  possible  at  all  times,  while  all 
employees are educated and regularly updated through security 
training.

The Group’s Corporate Security Policy and internal guidelines 
comply  with  the  US  Customs-Trade  Partnership  Against 
Terrorism  (C-TPAT)  initiative,  EU  Authorised  Economic 
Operator  (AEO)  Program,  and  we  actively  work  with  various 
governments  and  authorities  around  the  world  to  counter 
any  act  that  would  impinge  upon  maritime  or  cargo  security. 
Under  our  policy,  we  have  internal  security  checks  to  all  of 
its holdings and our security profile has been validated by the 
US  Customs  and  Border  Protection  agency  through  physical 
checks  of  the  offices  and  facilities  of  the  Group  including 
terminals, warehouses, depots and vessels.

Our  company  meets  the  International  Ship  and  Port  Facility 
Security Code (ISPS Code), which ensures that security threats 
are detected and assessed and preventive measures are in place 
on  our  vessels  and  at  our  port  facilities.  A  designated  officer 
on each ship and at each port facility reports to the Company 
Security  Officer  who  oversees  the  security  plans,  drills  and 
training.  With  this  in  place,  all  our  vessels  continue  to  have 
an  exemplary  record  containing  zero  breaches  of  security  and 
clean  detention  records.  In  addition,  to  provide  world-class 

OOCL  has  been  certified  as  a  “Partners  in  Protection”  (PIP) 
carrier  by  the  Canada  Border  Services  Agency  (CBSA) 
Partners in Protection. It is a voluntary program established by 
the CBSA to enhance border security, combat organised crime 
and  terrorism,  detect  and  prevent  contraband  smuggling,  and 
increase  awareness  of  issues  to  secure  the  flow  of  legitimate 
goods  and  travellers  across  the  US-Canadian  border.  OOCL 
applies anti-piracy measures before our vessels transit through 
High  Risk  Areas  (HRA).  One  of  the  key  measures  is  to 
maintain  a  24-hour,  360-degree  anti-piracy  visual  and  radar 
watch and to deploy additional watch-keepers at the bridge and 
on  deck  while  transiting  the  HRA  to  watch  out  for  suspected 
pirate  vessels.  Physical  measures  are  also  utilised  onboard, 
such  as  barbed  wires,  spikes,  and  night  vision  binoculars. 
Close communication is always maintained between ships and 
our  Fleet  Management  Department  (FMD)  office.  FMD’s  24-
hour emergency hotline is always on standby mode in the case 
of any emergency.

Traditionally,  antivirus  and  malware  detection  software 
would  provide  a  boost  to  our  computer  security  by  helping 
our  computers  stay  away  from  being  ‘infected’.  But  as  the 
development  of  the  Internet  is  becoming  more  sophisticated 
than ever, signature-based virus/malware detection tools alone 
are no longer sufficient today.

This  is  because  the  ‘Advanced  Persistent  Threat’,  a  set  of 
stealthy  and  continuous  computer  hacking  processes  often 
orchestrated  by  attackers  targeting  a  specific  entity  by  taking 
advantage  of  security  loopholes,  is  growing.  APT  has  been 
observed  to  target  organizations  and/or  nations  for  business, 
financial  and/or  political  motives.  ‘Corporate  Security 
Breaches’,  ‘Email  Spoofing’,  ‘Spear  Phishing’  and  ‘Social  Media 
Fraud’ are some of the common types of cyber attacks.

To  boost  our  employee’s  knowledge  and  awareness  of  cyber 
security,  new  initiatives  and  programs  have  been  developed 
to  ensure  everyone  takes  part  in  protecting  the  our  assets 
and  become  more  resilient  against  such  threats.  This  includes 
an  annual  cyber  security  training  and  mandatory  test  for 
all  employees,  monthly  knowledge  and  trend  updates,  and 
sophisticated monitoring and protective systems.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

25

Corporate ResponsibilityIn  2014,  thirty-seven  OOCL  vessels  participated  in  the  Hong 
Kong  Voluntary  Observing  Ship  (HKVOS)  program  by 
the  Hong  Kong  Observatory  (HKO)  to  gather  and  provide 
marine  climatology  data  needed  to  help  identify  prevailing 
weather conditions for preparing forecasts and warnings to the 
maritime community. 

To  recognise  vessels’  outstanding  efforts  in  volunteering  their 
time  to  help  improve  maritime  safety,  the  HKO  presented  the 
‘Diamond Award’ and the ‘Gold Award’ respectively to OOCL 
Asia  and  OOCL  Jakarta  on  6th  June  2014.  OOCL  Asia,  in 
particular, received this special acknowledgement as being the 
only  participating  vessel  which  volunteered  at  least  250  hours 
to  contribute  over  500  weather  observation  reports  over  the 
year.

Apart  from  the  quantity  of  the  reports  made,  OOCL 
Asia  and  OOCL  Yokohama  were  also  presented  with  first 
time  participation  certificates  jointly  issued  by  the  World 
Meteorological  Organization  (WMO)  and  Intergovernmental 
Oceanographic  Commission  of  UNESCO  (IOC)  for  the 
high  quality  of  the  reports  sent.  According  to  the  HKO, 
observational data received from these ships are highly valued 
by  the  international  scientific  community  for  climate  research 
and climate change studies.

employee information

As  a  responsible  corporate  citizen  employing  the  highest 
standards  of  business  ethics  in  all  that  it  does,  the  Group 
understands  that  the  process  begins  with  the  well  treatment 
of  its  employees.  As  a  successful  corporation,  the  Group 
appreciates  that  its  success,  growth  and  performance  are 
attributable  to  the  skills,  dedication  and  teamwork  of  its 
employees.  It  regards  people  as  its  greatest  asset  and  takes 
good care of them.

In  the  spirit  of  mutual  respect,  the  Group  is  an  equal 
opportunity  employer  with  a  clearly  defined  policy,  covering 
areas  such  as  treating  all  employees  with  fairness  and  dignity, 
promoting  the  corporate  culture  of  encouraging  open  and 
frank  communication  throughout  the  organisation,  investing 
in  its  employees  and  caring  for  their  hopes  and  aspirations 
through  people  development  programs  and  education,  as  well 
as recognising their efforts and achievements.

Community and education

As  a  responsible  corporate  citizen  the  Group  recognises 
that  the  societies  in  which  its  employees  live  and  work 
contribute  greatly  to  the  company’s  overall  success.  Care  for 
these  communities  in  which  it  operates  is  therefore  a  major 
corporate  focus.  The  Group  concentrates  its  community 
efforts  on  charity  programs  designed  to  provide  well-rounded 
youth  education,  charity  relief  to  the  needy,  and  cultural 
entertainment to the whole community.

OOCL  employees  across  the  world  are  encouraged  to  give 
something back to the communities in which they live through 
charitable  activities  such  as  fundraising  and  volunteering  by 
dedicating their time and efforts to help others in need. 

Some  of  the  areas  where  the  charity  donations  were  made 
by  the  Group  and  its  employees  include:  education,  social 
services,  orphanages,  elderly  homes,  schools,  children’s 
hospitals,  cancer  research,  multiple  sclerosis,  and  diabetes 
research.  In  addition  to  financial  donations,  the  Group  also 
contributes  in  kind.  We  offer  transportation  and  logistics 
support  to  send  relief  to  the  affected  areas.  Assistance  in  the 
form  of  free  transportation  is  often  given  to  a  number  of 
charitable  projects  including  transporting  medical  diagnostic 
equipment and supplies from the US to China to care for those 
children who need urgent treatments.

In  keeping  with  the  Group’s  long  tradition  in  supporting 
education,  the  Group,  in  partnership  with  The  Tung 
Foundation,  committed  more  than  US$540,000  in  2014  to 
scholarships through The Tung OOCL Scholarship for students 
and our employees’ children.

26 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Corporate ResponsibilityIn  the  interest  of  adhering  to  the  highest  ethical  standards 
on  an  ongoing  basis,  the  Group  has  a  formulated  Code  of 
Conduct  which  serves  as  a  guideline  to  ensure  compliance 
with all local, national and international legal standards and to 
preclude offences under local, national and international laws, 
any  breaches  of  confidentiality,  non-disclosure  requirements 
or intellectual property rights and any conflicts of interest, acts 
of  bribery,  corruption  or  political  contribution  and  any  other 
areas of deemed misconduct. The Group has set up procedures 
to identify, manage and control risks that may have an impact 
on the business of the Group. Established in 2006, the Group’s 
“Whistle  Blower  Policy”  is  one  of  the  Group’s  formalised 
procedures  through  which  employees  can  anonymously  file 
reports  or  register  concerns  and  helps  govern  the  reporting 
and  thorough  investigation  of  allegations  of  suspected 
improper activities.

The  Group  is  an  equal  opportunity  employer  with  policies 
not  to  discriminate  against  any  employee  or  applicant  for 
employment  on  the  grounds  of  race,  colour,  religion,  creed, 
age,  sex,  disability,  pregnancy,  childbirth  and  related  medical 
condition,  marital  status,  sexual  orientation,  veteran  status 
and  any  other  category  as  guided  by  local  laws  and  legal 
regulations.

People  development  remains  a  cornerstone  of  the  corporate 
culture  and  enables  the  effective  operation  of  the  Group’s 
career  development  policy  through  recruitment  and  internal 
promotion.  The  Group  has  channeled  a  great  deal  of  time 
and  effort  into  its  various  people  development  programs  in 
practical  and  experiential  environments  through  job  rotation, 
local  and  overseas  job  assignments,  formal  and  informal 
learning  and  development  opportunities  and  sponsorships  for 
performance enhancement building capacities of employees in 
support  of  their  growth  with  the  Group.  To  further  enhance 
practical training and better HQ/Regional cooperation, efforts 
have been made to initiate more short term cross regional job 
rotations.

The  Group  employs  an  innovative  approach  to  employee 
learning and management development. The Group recognises 
that  on  demand  performance  support  to  its  employees  is 
the  key  to  help  them  deliver  what  customers  need.  Through 
the  Group’s  intranet,  called  “InfoNet”,  the  Group  offers  an 
all  new  string  to  its  human  resources  bow,  creating  learner-
centric  platforms  with  interactive  paths  to  training  and  self-
improvement,  as  well  as  opening  up  learning  opportunities  to 
many  more  people  within  the  business.  Introduced  in  2010, 
this new intranet portal also allows speedy sharing of company 
news  and  business  updates  while  giving  its  employees  a 
platform  to  exchange  views  and  ideas.  In  2011,  the  Group 
had  a  wide  adoption  of  enterprise  level  collaboration  tools 
in  addition  to  conventional  methods  of  communication  such 
as  email.  OOCL  Wiki  and  Tibbr  have  proven  to  be  two  of 
these  very  effective  tools  in  the  sharing  of  information  and 
knowledge  as  well  as  collaboration  amongst  large  groups  of 
colleagues  in  our  offices  around  the  world.  They  have  also 
helped  us  support  accelerated  learning  by  providing  us  with 
the means to leverage resources, ideas and hence solutions.

As  at  31st  December  2014,  the  Group  had  9,504  full-time 
employees.  Their  salary  and  benefit  levels  are  maintained  at 
competitive  levels.  Employees  are  rewarded  on  a  performance 
related  basis  within  the  general  policy  and  framework  of 
the  Group’s  salary  and  bonus  schemes  which  are  regularly 
reviewed.  Other  benefits  including  medical  insurance  and 
pension  funds  are  also  provided,  and  social  and  recreational 
activities are organised around the world.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

27

Corporate Responsibilityfinancial review

“We are committed to ensuring an 
appropriate balance between adequate 
liquidity, efficient capital structure suitable 
for our industry, and sustainable returns 
to shareholders throughout the economic 
and market cycles.”

28 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Financial Reviewanalysis of Consolidated profit and loss account

Summary of Group results

US$’000

operating revenue by activity:
  Container Transport and Logistics
  Other Activities

Group operating revenue

operating profit by activity:
  Container Transport and Logistics
  Other Activities

Group operating profit
Finance costs
Share of profits of joint ventures and
  associated companies

Net gain/(loss) in fair value on investment property

profit before taxation
Taxation
Non-controlling interests

profit attributable to shareholders

2014

2013

Change

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
%

6,494,859
26,730

6,205,342
26,241

6,521,589

6,231,583

229,979
89,515

319,494
(54,000)

19,436

284,930
9,653

294,583
(24,145)
100

270,538

57,381
39,856

97,237
(41,019)

17,704

73,922
(6,923)

66,999
(19,866)
(97)

47,036

289,517
489

290,006

172,598
49,659

222,257
(12,981)

1,732

211,008
16,576

227,584
(4,279)
197

223,502

5%
2%

5%

301%
125%

229%
(32%)

10%

285%
N/M

340%
(22%)
N/M

475%

Revenue  for  2014  was  US$290.0  million  higher  than  that  of  2013,  representing  an  increase  of  5%.  This  was  mainly  attributable 

to higher business volume of the core Container Transport and Logistics business. Other revenue, amounting to less than 1% of 

the Group’s revenue for both 2014 and 2013, mainly represented rental income from the Group’s investment property Wall Street 

Plaza in New York.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

29

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Container transport and logistics

Summary of operating results

US$’000

liftings (teUs)

revenue per teU (US$)

Operating revenue by location:
  Asia/Australia
  North America
  Europe

operating revenue

Operating costs by items:
  Cargo costs
  Bunker costs
  Vessel and voyage costs (excluding Bunker)
  Equipment and repositioning costs

operating costs

Gross profit
Other operating expenses
Other operating income, net

operating profit

2014

2013

5,585,516

5,293,537

1,040

1,060

4,459,195
867,326
1,168,338

6,494,859

4,329,270
967,880
908,192

6,205,342

(3,070,264)
(1,014,046)
(1,033,481)
(742,970)

(2,816,731)
(1,126,471)
(1,040,042)
(775,548)

(5,860,761)

(5,758,792)

634,098
(436,345)
32,226

229,979

446,550
(410,810)
21,641

57,381

Change

291,979

(20)

129,925
(100,554)
260,146

289,517

(253,533)
112,425
6,561
32,578

(101,969)

187,548
(25,535)
10,585

172,598

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
%

6%

(2%)

3%
(10%)
29%

5%

(9%)
10%
1%
4%

(2%)

42%
(6%)
49%

301%

The Container Transport and Logistics business trades under the “OOCL” name and represents the principal revenue contributor 
to the Group, accounting for over 99% of the Group’s revenue in 2014. Container Transport and Logistics will continue to be the 
core business of the Group in which the majority of the Group’s operating assets will be deployed.

operating revenue of Container transport and logistic

14%

16%

70%

18%

13%

69%

100%

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

2013

2014

Asia/Australia

North America

Europe

The  operating  results  for  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  also  include  the  operations  of  Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  in 
California  USA  and  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in  Taiwan  as  these  facilities  are  mainly  employed  by  OOCL  and  its  alliance 
members.

30 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
asia/australia

Turnover from the Asia/Australia area increased from US$4,329.3 million in 2013 to US$4,459.2 million in 2014 as a result of an 
increase in cargo volume. Both the North America and Europe bound trades recorded positive variances when compared with last 
year in revenue terms while the Australasian trades recorded a notable decline.

Overall liftings of the Trans-Pacific eastbound services increased by 8% while freight rates softened by 1% when compared with 
last year. The westbound legs of the Asia/Northern Europe services recorded a 16% rebound in volume amid a 2% drop in rates. 
Intra-Asia  sustained  a  4%  growth  in  liftings  for  the  year  with  a  modest  1%  retreat  in  freight  rates.  Liftings  of  the  Asia/Australia 
and New Zealand services rose by 3% in 2014 while freight rates fell by 10% compared with last year.

Overall load factor as a percentage of the capacity available during 2014 was 4 percentage points better than that of 2013, amid a 
modest  increase  in  available  capacity  during  the  year.  Results  from  this  region  have  always  been  dependent  upon  the  economic 
environment and consumption patterns of North America and Europe.

Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  in  Taiwan  is  an  integral  part  of  the  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  business  and  its  terminal 
facilities are mainly employed by OOCL and its alliance members.

North america

Revenue  decreased  by  US$100.6  million  for  this  area  in  2014  with  softening  freight  rates  and  a  decline  in  volume.  Both  Asia-
bound and Europe-bound cargoes recorded a drop in average freight rates, which contributed to the revenue shortfall.

The  westbound  liftings  from  the  Asia/North  America  West  Coast  service  and  the  Asia/US  East  Coast  service  via  the  Panama 
Canal  dropped  slightly  compared  with  last  year  but  revenue  showed  a  6%  decrease  with  a  5%  decline  in  freight  rates.  The 
eastbound  Canada/Northern  Europe  and  US  East  Coast/Northern  Europe  services  recorded  an  8%  setback  in  volume  and  a  2% 
drop in revenue.

Overall  volumes  softened  by  2%  during  2014  and  the  average  revenue  per  TEU  on  all  outbound  cargoes  from  North  America 
recorded a 5% decrease as compared with last year. With a 1% increase in capacity during the year, the overall load factor in the 
region was 3 percentage points down from 2013.

Long  Beach  Container  Terminal  forms  an  integral  part  of  the  Container  Transport  and  Logistics  business  with  its  terminal 
facilities mainly employed by OOCL and its alliance partners.

europe

Turnover for this area in 2014 achieved a handsome increase of US$260.1 million after stagnant growth in 2013. The eastbound 
leg of the Asia/Northern Europe services recorded 7% revenue growth in 2014 while the westbound trades of the Trans-Atlantic 
routes also recorded a 3% increase. Encouraging revenue growth was also noted in the Mediterranean markets.

The eastbound leg of the Asia/Northern Europe services saw a 16% increase in volume in 2014, which was offset in part by an 8% 
decline  in  freight  rates.  Liftings  for  the  westbound  sectors  of  the  Canada/Northern  Europe  and  US  East  Coast/Northern  Europe 
services were 3% better than those of 2013 while the average revenue per TEU for both services was comparable to last year. The 
eastbound routes of the Mediterranean trades, on the other hand, sustained 25% growth in volume and a 22% increase in revenue 
during the year.

The overall load factor as a percentage of capacity available for cargo shipments from this region was 3 percentage points better 
than that of 2013 with a 7% capacity increase for the Europe area during 2014.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

31

Financial ReviewThe  average  revenue  per  TEU  on  all  outbound  cargoes  from  Europe  was  5%  lower  than  that  of  2013,  amid  an  11%  increase  in 
overall volume for the region.

revenue per teU by Services

US$

1,900 

1,700 

1,500 

1,300 

1,100 

900 

700 

500 

Q1 2013

Q2 2013

Q3 2013

Q4 2013

Q1 2014

Q2 2014

Q3 2014 Q4 2014

Trans-Pacific

Asia-Europe

Trans-Atlantic

Intra-Asia/Australia

All Trades

operating Costs

The principal operating costs of the container transport business, including cargo costs, vessel costs, voyage costs, equipment and 
repositioning costs, increased modestly from 2013, with the increases in cargo costs partly offset by savings in bunker costs.

Cargo  costs  mainly  consist  of  terminal  charges,  inland  transportation  costs,  commission  and  brokerage,  cargo  assessment  and 
freight tax, all of which are largely paid in the local currencies of the areas in which the activities take place. Cargo cost increased 
by 9% compared with that of 2013 as a result of the growth in liftings.

average Bunker price per ton

US$

700

600

500

400

300

Jan

Feb Mar

Apr May

Jun

Jul

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov Dec

2013

2014

32 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Financial ReviewVoyage costs comprise mainly bunker costs, port charges, canal dues, cargo claims and insurance. Bunker price softened from an 
average of US$615 per ton in 2013 to an average of US$572 per ton in 2014, coupled with savings in consumption, resulting in a 
10% drop in bunker cost for the year.

Vessel costs include the operating costs and depreciation charges relating to the OOCL fleet as well as the net charter hire and slot 
hire expenses incurred in order to maintain the scheduled service levels. With the extra capacity from newbuildings delivered, the 
total carrying capacity grew from 496,106 TEU as at the end of 2013 to 529,662 TEU in 2014, while the total number of vessels 
operated  by  OOCL,  both  owned  and  chartered-in,  increased  from  94  to  98.  However,  total  vessel  and  voyage  costs,  other  than 
bunker costs, for 2014 increased only slightly from those of 2013.

Equipment  costs  principally  represent  maintenance  and  repair  costs,  rental  payments,  depot  expenses  and  depreciation  charges 
relating  to  the  fleet  of  containers  and  chassis  equipment,  while  repositioning  costs  arise  mainly  from  the  relocation  of  empty 
containers  from  areas  of  low  activity  to  high  demand  regions.  The  container  fleet  size  increased  from  840,752  TEU  in  2013  to 
982,880  TEU  in  2014  while  total  equipment  and  repositioning  costs  were  lower  than  last  year  with  increased  owned  equipment 
and less rental outgoings.

operating costs

2013

13%

18%

20%

49%

2014

13%

18%

17%

52%

Cargo costs

Bunker costs

Vessel and voyage costs
(excluding Bunker)

Equipment and 
repositioning costs

other operating expenses

Other operating expenses largely comprise staff costs, office expenses, selling and marketing costs, professional and information 
system expenses. With the growth in business volume, other operating expenses in 2014 were US$25.5 million higher than 2013.

other operating income, net

Other operating income, comprising principally net foreign exchange differences and net profit or loss on the disposal of assets, 
for 2014 was US$10.6 million better than that of 2013.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

33

Financial Reviewother activities

Summary of operating results

US$’000

Rental income
Elimination

operating revenue
Operating costs
Costs incurred by hurricane Sandy

Gross profit
Investment income
Interest income
Distributions from investment in Hui Xian
Others

operating profit

2014

27,638
(908)

26,730
(15,036)
–

11,694
27,068
14,638
43,832
(7,717)

89,515

2013

27,115
(874)

26,241
(13,254)
(974)

12,013
8,929
11,208
10,223
(2,517)

39,856

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
%

2%
N/M

2%
(13%)
100%

(3%)
203%
31%
329%
(207%)

125%

Change

523
(34)

489
(1,782)
974

(319)
18,139
3,430
33,609
(5,200)

49,659

The  Group  owns  an  approximately  600,000  sq  ft  office  and  commercial  property,  Wall  Street  Plaza,  located  at  88  Pine  Street, 
New York, USA, an area popularly referred to as the “Wall Street area”. The building was constructed in 1972 and is operated as 
a multi-tenanted building. Approximately 21,000 sq ft is occupied by Group companies. The Group also invests funds surplus to 
operations in cash and bank deposit and, on a longer term basis, in equity and bond portfolios. The Group also owns 7.9% interest 
in Hui Xian Holdings Ltd which is the largest unit-holder of Hui Xian REIT, the first RMB-denominated REIT in Hong Kong.

Hurricane Sandy swept through the U.S. East Coast in late October 2012 causing extensive damage to the city of New York where 
Wall Street Plaza was located. Various costs were incurred to rebuild and restore the building back to its normal condition and the 
operating results of 2013 were affected accordingly.

The  operating  profit  from  Other  Activities  for  2014  was  US$49.7  million  better  than  that  of  2013  with  the  dividends  in  specie 
from Hui Xian Holdings Ltd and higher contributions from investment activities recorded for the year.

rental income

Rental income from Wall Street Plaza was comparable to that of last year, with an occupancy rate of 94% as at the end of 2014.

investment income

Compared with a profit of US$8.9 million in 2013, investment activities recorded a profit of US$27.1 million for the year. Interest 
income from bond investments increased in 2014, supplemented by the fair value gain in the equity and bond portfolio.

investment income By activities

18,071

19,974

6,284

(9,828)

686

810

US$’000

20,000

15,000

10,000

5,000

0

(5,000)

(10,000)

Interest income from
investments

Fair value and
disposal gain/(loss)

Dividend income

2013

2014

34 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Financial Review 
 
 
 
interest income

Interest income increased by US$3.4 million in 2014, reflecting higher deposit rates during the year.

Distributions from investment in Hui Xian

Hui Xian Holdings Ltd declared and paid both cash dividend and dividend in specie in 2014, of which the Group shared a total of 
US$40.2 million. The Group also received distributions of US$3.6 million from its direct holding of Hui Xian REIT units during 
the year, resulting in a total contribution of US$43.8 million from Hui Xian in 2014. In 2013, a cash dividend of US$7.9 million 
from Hui Xian Holdings Ltd and a US$2.3 million distribution from Hui Xian REIT were received.

others

Other  items  include  business  and  administration  expenses  for  property  management,  exchange  differences  and  other 
miscellaneous items.

finance Costs

The Group incurs interest expenses on bank loans, finance leases and, to a very small extent, bank overdrafts. These borrowings 
are variously secured against vessels, containers, chassis and terminal equipment owned by the Group. Finance costs also include 
fees on lease administration.

Finance  costs  increased  by  US$13.0  million  as  compared  with  2013,  principally  a  result  of  a  higher  average  debt  balance  for  the 
year.

Net Gain/(loss) in fair Value on investment property

As at 31st December 2014, the Group’s investment property, Wall Street Plaza, was valued at US$180 million, up from the US$170 
million  valuation  at  the  end  of  2013,  by  an  independent  valuer.  After  offsetting  a  total  of  US$0.3  million  capital  improvements, 
the net gain in fair value for 2014 was therefore US$9.7 million. In 2013, the property recorded a valuation gain of US$5.0 million 
which was offset against building improvements of US$11.9 million as an aftermath of hurricane Sandy resulting in a net loss in 
fair value of US$6.9 million.

Share of results of Joint Ventures and associated Companies

Share of results of joint ventures and associated companies mainly represents the Group’s investment in a depot joint venture in 
Qingdao,  two  agency  joint  ventures  in  the  Middle  East,  and  a  20%  stake  in  two  terminals  in  Tianjin  and  Ningbo.  The  share  of 
US$19.4 million profit from joint ventures and associated companies in 2014 was US$1.7 million higher than 2013.

profit before taxation

Pre-tax  profit  for  the  year  was  US$294.6  million  compared  with  last  year’s  profit  of  US$67.0  million.  The  increase  in  earnings 
mainly came from the Container Transport and Logistics business and a better contribution from investment activities.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

35

Financial Reviewtaxation

US$’000

Company and subsidiaries:
  North America
  Europe
  China
  Asia and others

Total

2014

8,783
991
4,932
9,439

2013

5,611
2,790
3,400
8,065

24,145

19,866

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
%

(57%)
64%
(45%)
(17%)

(22%)

Change

3,172
(1,799)
1,532
1,374

4,279

Taxation  for  North  America,  China,  Asia  and  other  regions  increased  in  2014  as  a  result  of  improved  profitability  for  the  year. 
Taxation for Europe was lower compared with last year as a result of releasing tax provisions no longer required in 2014.

Capital expenditure

US$’000

Container vessels and capitalised dry-docking costs
Vessels under construction
Containers
Chassis
Vehicles, furniture, computer and other equipment
Computer software
Investment property

2014

21,652
280,573
339,206
40
192,723
14,228
347

848,769

2013

52,344
631,885
182,627
82
108,416
12,174
11,923

999,451

Change

(30,692)
(351,312)
156,579
(42)
84,307
2,054
(11,576)

(150,682)

Increase/
(decrease)
%

(59%)
(56%)
86%
(51%)
78%
17%
(97%)

(15%)

Capital expenditure decreased from US$999.5 million in 2013 to US$848.8 million in 2014. Vessels under construction accounted 
for  33%  and  63%  of  the  total  capital  expenditure  in  2014  and  2013  respectively  while  capital  outlays  on  container  equipment 
increased  from  18%  of  2013  to  40%  in  2014.  The  increase  in  capital  expenditure  on  other  equipment  mainly  represented  the 
acquisition of terminal equipment for the Middle Harbor Redevelopment Project in Long Beach, USA.

Vessels

During 2014, the Group took delivery of two 13,208 TEU mega vessels and entered into sale-and-lease-back agreements for three 
8,063 TEU vessels for three years.

As  at  the  end  of  2014,  the  Group  had  a  total  of  four  8,888  TEU  vessels  under  construction  at  Hudong  –  Zhonghua  Shipyard 
(Group) Co. Ltd, to be delivered in 2015.

Newbuilding Delivery Schedule 

Delivery

Jan 2015
Mar 2015
Aug 2015
Oct 2015

Shipyard

Hudong-Zhonghua Shipbuilding
Hudong-Zhonghua Shipbuilding
Hudong-Zhonghua Shipbuilding
Hudong-Zhonghua Shipbuilding

Hull No.

H1565A
H1585A
H1667A
H1668A

teU

8,888
8,888
8,888
8,888

Year of order

2007
2007
2010
2010

36 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Financial Review 
 
 
 
review of Consolidated Balance Sheet

Summary of Consolidated Balance Sheet

US$’000

Property, plant and equipment
Investment property and prepayments of

lease premiums

Joint ventures and associated companies
Intangible assets
Liquid assets
Accounts receivable and other assets
Other non-current assets

total aSSetS
Accounts payable and other liabilities
Current taxation

2014

2013

5,608,929

5,320,251

189,109
161,747
48,578
2,689,754
908,853
26,485

9,633,455
(953,204)
(5,677)

179,543
150,701
42,663
2,411,085
854,568
31,407

8,990,218
(916,343)
(5,420)

total aSSetS leSS traDiNG liaBilitieS

8,674,574

8,068,455

Change

288,678

9,566
11,046
5,915
278,669
54,285
(4,922)

643,237
(36,861)
(257)

606,119

Long-term borrowings
Short-term borrowings, overdrafts and current
  portion of long-term borrowings

Total debt
Non-controlling interests and deferred liabilities
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

Capital eMploYeD
Debt to equity ratio
Net debt to equity ratio
Accounts payable as a % of revenue
Accounts receivable as a % of revenue
% return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Net asset value per ordinary share (US$)
Liquid assets per ordinary share (US$)
Share price at 31st December (US$)
Price to book ratio based on share price 
  at 31st December

property, plant and equipment

US$’000

Vessels
Containers and chassis
Land and buildings
Others

3,595,625

3,265,555

330,070

120,567

450,637
(8,463)
163,945

606,119

388,877

3,984,502
55,320
4,634,752

8,674,574
0.86
0.28
14.46
8.81
5.94
7.41
4.30
5.81

268,310

3,533,865
63,783
4,470,807

8,068,455
0.79
0.25
14.52
8.90
1.05
7.14
3.85
4.99

0.79

0.70

2014

3,969,359
1,217,025
41,796
380,749

5,608,929

2013

4,050,517
1,008,676
44,611
216,447

5,320,251

Change

(81,158)
208,349
(2,815)
164,302

288,678

Increase/
(decrease)
%

5%

5%
7%
14%
12%
6%
(16%)

7%
4%
5%

8%

10%

45%

13%
(13%)
4%

8%

Increase/
(decrease)
%

(2%)
21%
(6%)
 76%

5%

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

37

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Container  Transport  and  Logistics  remains  the  core  business  of  the  Group  and  the  one  in  which  the  majority  of  property,  plant 
and equipment is deployed. The assets largely comprise container vessels, containers and chassis, property, terminal and computer 
equipment and systems. As at the end of 2014, the Group had a total of 4 outstanding newbuilding orders to be delivered in 2015.

The increase in property, plant and equipment in 2014 principally reflects the additions in containers and terminal equipment for 
the Middle Harbor Redevelopment Project.

investment property and prepayments of lease premiums

US$’000

Investment property
Prepayments of lease premiums

2014

180,000
9,109

189,109

2013

170,000
9,543

179,543

Change

10,000
(434)

9,566

Increase/
(decrease)
%

6%
(5%)

5%

Investment  property  represents  the  Group’s  commercial  building,  Wall  Street  Plaza,  in  New  York.  The  building  was  valued  at 
US$180.0 million as at the end of 2014 by an independent valuer (2013: US$170.0 million).

Joint Ventures and associated Companies

US$’000

Joint ventures
Associated companies

2014

9,248
152,499

161,747

2013

8,674
142,027

150,701

Change

574
10,472

11,046

Increase/
(decrease)
%

7%
7%

7%

The  investment  in  associated  companies  comprises  minority  holdings  in  two  container  terminals  in  Tianjin  and  Ningbo.  The 
investments  in  joint  ventures  are  in  connection  with  (1)  a  container  depot  in  Qingdao,  and  (2)  two  shipping  agencies  in  the 
Middle  East.  The  increase  in  the  investment  in  joint  ventures  and  associated  companies  for  2014  mainly  arose  from  the  profits 
shared for the year.

intangible assets

US$’000

Opening balances
Additions
Disposal of a subsidiary
Amortisation

Closing balances

2014

42,663
14,228
(3)
(8,310)

48,578

2013

38,916
12,174
–
(8,427)

42,663

Change

3,747
2,054
(3)
117

5,915

Increase/
(decrease)
%

10%
17%
N/M
(1%)

14%

Intangible assets represent capitalised computer software development costs which are amortised over a period of five years.

38 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
liquid assets

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Other Activities
Cash and portfolio funds
Available-for-sale listed equity securities
Held-to-maturity investments

Total liquid assets

2014

437,155
35,726
1,971,037
9
245,827

2,689,754

2013

536,097
28,002
1,592,405
9
254,572

2,411,085

Change

(98,942)
7,724
378,632
–
(8,745)

278,669

Increase/
(decrease)
%

(18%)
28%
24%
0%
(3%)

12%

The  Group  adopts  a  central  treasury  system  under  which  a  part  of  the  funds  surplus  to  planned  requirements  is  set  aside  for 
portfolio investments in fixed income bonds or equities managed by in-house managers under guidelines imposed by the Board.

The  Group’s  investment  portfolios  are  largely  invested  in  US  dollar  bonds,  short-term  cash  deposits  or  similar  instruments,  and 
listed equities. No investments are made in derivative investment products.

Available-for-sale listed equity securities mainly represent listed securities held for medium-term value growth; held-to-maturity 
investments are entirely bonds intended to be held until maturity.

The Group’s total liquid assets at the end of 2013 and 2014 can be further analyzed as follows:

US$’000

Cash (per cashflow statement)
Bank overdrafts

Bank balances and deposits maturing within
three months from the date of placement
Bank balances and deposits maturing over
three months from the date of placement

Cash and bank balances (per balance sheet)
Restricted bank balances
Portfolio investments
Available-for-sale listed equity securities
Held-to-maturity investments

Total liquid assets

2014

1,942,822
1

2013

1,719,902
314

Change

222,920
(313)

1,942,823

1,720,216

222,607

223,091

2,165,914
54,581
223,423
9
245,827

2,689,754

192,130

1,912,346
26,172
217,986
9
254,572

2,411,085

30,961

253,568
28,409
5,437
–
(8,745)

278,669

Increase/
(decrease)
%

13%
(100%)

13%

16%

13%
109%
2%
0%
(3%)

12%

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

39

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
accounts receivable and other assets

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Others

2014

740,543
168,310

908,853

2013

684,891
169,677

854,568

Change

55,652
(1,367)

54,285

Increase/
(decrease)
%

8%
(1%)

6%

Accounts receivable and other assets for Container Transport and Logistics increased by US$55.7 million to US$740.5 million at 
the end of 2014. This increase included the effect of the re-classification of a vessel from property, plant and equipment to asset 
held for sale.

ageing analysis of trade receivables

2013

2014

6% 2%

3%7%

92%

90%

Below 1 month

2-3 months

Over 3 months

accounts payable and other liabilities

US$’000

Container Transport and Logistics
Others

2014

946,538
6,666

953,204

2013

909,223
7,120

916,343

Change

37,315
(454)

36,861

Increase/
(decrease)
%

4%
(6%)

4%

Accounts payable and other liabilities at the end of 2014 were US$36.9 million higher than that of 2013, mainly due to increases in 
cost provisions pursuant to growth in business volume.

ageing analysis of trade payables

2013

2014

40%

57%

3%

25%

7%

68%

40 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Below 1 month

2-3 months

Over 3 months

Financial Review 
 
 
 
total Debt

US$’000

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations
Bank overdrafts

2014

2,372,235
1,612,266
1

3,984,502

2013

2,160,728
1,372,823
314

3,533,865

Change

211,507
239,443
(313)

450,637

Increase/
(decrease)
%

10%
17%
(100%)

13%

Total  debt  increased  during  the  year  by  US$450.6  million,  principally  a  result  of  the  financial  obligations  incurred  upon  capital 
expenditure on newbuildings and other equipment during the year, offset in part by scheduled repayments.

Total debt repayment between 2015 and 2019 is US$2,319 million, being equivalent to 58% of the total outstanding debt as at 31 
December 2014. Details of the repayment profile of the Group’s borrowings are set out in Note 38 to the Consolidated Accounts.

Debt profile

As at the end of 2014, 99% (2013: 99%) of the Group’s total debt was denominated in US dollars which effectively reduced the risk 
of exchange fluctuations.

Of  the  total  US$3,984.5  million  debt  outstanding  at  the  end  of  2014,  US$278.9  million  was  fixed-rate  debt  and  the  remaining 
US$3,705.6  million  was  subject  to  floating  interest  rates  at  various  competitive  spreads  over  three-month/six-month  LIBOR  (or 
equivalent)  and  related  principally  to  the  financing  of  vessels  and  container  equipment.  The  Group’s  average  cost  of  debt  at  31st 
December 2014 was 1.5% (2013: 1.3%).

Net Debt to equity ratio

This  ratio  changed  to  0.28:  1  as  at  the  end  of  2014  from  0.25:  1  as  at  the  end  of  2013  mainly  due  to  new  debts  relating  to 
newbuilding  orders  and  new  equipment  acquired  in  2014.  This  ratio  will  be  closely  monitored  in  the  light  of  the  delivery  and 
financing of new vessels ordered and business forecasts over the next three years. It is the Group’s objective to keep this key ratio 
below a threshold of 1.0.

Net Debt to equity

Ratio

0.40

0.20

0.00

Net Cash

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

Shareholders’ equity

As  at  31st  December  2014,  the  Company  had  625,793,297  shares  in  issue,  consisting  entirely  of  ordinary  shares.  With  profit  for 
the year, offset in part by the payment of interim dividends, the Group’s consolidated shareholders’ equity increased by US$163.9 
million to US$4,634.8 million as at the end of 2014 with a net asset value per ordinary share of US$7.41 (2013: US$7.14).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

41

Financial Review 
 
operating leases and Commitments

In  addition  to  the  owned  operating  assets,  the  Group  employs  assets  through  operating  lease  arrangements.  The  total  rental 
payments in respect of these leases in 2015 amounted to US$218.2 million as detailed in Note 41(b) to the Consolidated Accounts. 
Assets under operating lease arrangements consist primarily of container boxes, chassis, container vessels and a terminal in North 
America.

As at the  end of  2014, the  Group  had outstanding capital commitments amounting to US$611.6 million, principally represented 
by the orders placed for new container vessels to be delivered in 2015 and new equipment for the Middle Harbor Redevelopment 
Project.

analysis of Change in liquid assets

US$’000

Net inflow from operations

Other inflow:

Interest and investment income

  Sale of property, plant and equipment

  and investments
  New loan drawdown
  Cash from joint ventures and associated companies
  Cash from disposal of a subsidiary, net
  Fair value gain on portfolio investments
  Others

Other outflow:
Interest paid

  Dividends paid to shareholders
  Taxation paid
  Purchase of property, plant and
  equipment and investments

  Loan repayments

Increase in intangible assets

  Fair value loss on portfolio investments
  Others

Net inflow
Beginning liquid asset balances
Changes in exchange rates

Ending liquid asset balances

Represented by:
  Unrestricted bank balances and deposits
  Restricted bank balances
  Portfolio investments
  Available-for-sale listed equity securities
  Held-to-maturity investments

42 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

2014

553,237

2013

477,215

Change

76,022

49,845

47,597

2,248

177,480
686,453
18,336
5,716
6,284
3,218

947,332

(53,790)
(58,784)
(20,916)

(373,746)
(703,662)
(14,228)
–
–

26,839
894,779
11,544
–
–
48

980,807

(38,588)
(44,987)
(25,449)

(593,691)
(658,477)
(12,174)
(9,828)
(1,061)

(1,225,126)

(1,384,255)

275,443
2,411,085
3,226

2,689,754

2,165,914
54,581
223,423
9
245,827

2,689,754

73,767
2,339,531
(2,213)

2,411,085

1,912,346
26,172
217,986
9
254,572

2,411,085

150,641
(208,326)
6,792
5,716
6,284
3,170

(33,475)

(15,202)
(13,797)
4,533

219,945
(45,185)
(2,054)
9,828
1,061

159,129

201,676
71,554
5,439

278,669

253,568
28,409
5,437
–
(8,745)

278,669

Favourable/
(unfavourable)
%

16%

5%

561%
(23%)
59%
N/M
N/M
6,604%

(3%)

(39%)
(31%)
18%

37%
(7%)
(17%)
N/M
N/M

11%

273%
3%
N/M

12%

13%
109%
2%
0%
(3%)

12%

Financial Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  net  inflow  of  US$275.4  million  was  recorded  in  2014  compared  with  a  net  inflow  of  US$73.8  million  in  2013. 
Operating  inflow  of  US$553.2  million  for  the  year  was  US$76.0  million  better  than  that  of  2013  with  improved 
operating  results.  The  capital  payments  and  corresponding  loan  drawdown  amounts  in  2014  mainly  reflected  the 
scheduled stage payments arranged for the ordered vessels and the acquisition of container and terminal equipment. 
Total liquid asset balances increased to US$2,689.8 million at the end of 2014, against US$2,411.1 million in 2013.

liquidity

As  at  31st  December  2014,  the  Group  had  total  liquid  asset  balances  of  US$2,689.8  million  compared  with  debt 
obligations  of  US$388.9  million  repayable  in  2015.  Total  current  assets  at  the  end  of  2014  amounted  to  US$3,184.0 
million  against  total  current  liabilities  of  US$1,344.8  million.  The  Group’s  shareholders’  equity  contains  no  loan 
capital. The Group prepares and updates cashflow forecasts for asset acquisitions, project development requirements, 
as  well  as  working  capital  needs,  from  time  to  time  with  the  objective  of  maintaining  a  proper  balance  between  a 
conservative liquidity level and an effective investment of surplus funds.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

43

Financial ReviewtUNG Chee Chen

Mr.  TUNG  Chee  Chen,  aged  72,  has  been  appointed  as  the  Chairman, 
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since October 1996. 
Mr.  Tung  chairs  the  Executive  Committee,  the  Nomination  Committee 
and  the  Inside  Information  Committee  of  the  Company  and  is  a  member 
of the Remuneration Committee of the Company. He is also the chairman 
or  a  director  of  various  subsidiaries  of  the  Company.  Mr.  Tung  graduated 
from  the  University  of  Liverpool,  England,  where  he  received  his 
Bachelor  of  Science  degree  and  acquired  a  Master’s  degree  in  Mechanical 
Engineering  at  the  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology  in  the  United 
States.  Mr.  Tung  is  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  Cathay 
Pacific  Airways  Limited  and  U-Ming  Marine  Transport  Corp.,  both  of 
which are listed public companies. He was formerly an Independent Non-
Executive Director of BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Limited, Sing Tao News 
Corporation  Limited  and  Zhejiang  Expressway  Co.,  Ltd.,  all  of  which 
are  companies  listed  in  Hong  Kong.  He  was  also  an  Independent  Non-
Executive Director of Wing Hang Bank, Limited (renamed to OCBC Wing 
Hang  Bank  Limited),  a  company  previously  listed  in  Hong  Kong  until 
withdrawal  of  its  listing  on  16th  October  2014.  Mr.  Tung  is  a  member  of 
the Hong Kong Logistics Development Council and the Hong Kong-United 
States  Business  Council.  Mr.  Tung  is  the  brother  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa 
who  has  an  interest  in  a  trust  which  has  an  indirect  interest  in  Fortune 
Crest  Inc.  and  Gala  Way  Company  Inc.  (substantial  shareholders  of  the 
Company);  the  brother-in-law  of  Professor  Roger  King  (a  Non-Executive 
Director  of  the  Company);  and  the  uncle  of  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung 
Andrew  (an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company)  and  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing 
Alan (an Executive Director and the Acting Chief Financial Officer of the 
Company). Mr. Tung is either a director, or a director of a company which 
is a corporate director, of certain substantial shareholders of the Company 
which  have  disclosure  interests  in  the  Company  under  the  provisions  of 
the Securities and Futures Ordinance.

tUNG lieh Cheung andrew

Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung  Andrew,  aged 50, has been an Executive Director and a member of the 
Executive  Committee  of  the  Company  since  2nd  November  2011  and  a  member  of  the  Inside 
Information  Committee  of  the  Company  since  7th  August  2013.  He  has  been  a  Director  and  a 
member  of  the  Executive  Committee  of  Orient  Overseas  Container  Line  Limited  (“OOCLL”),  a 
wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  the  Company,  since  March  2006,  and  the  Chief  Executive  Officer 
and  Senior  Managing  Director  of  OOCLL  since  1st  July  2012.  Mr.  Tung  is  also  a  director  of 
Cargosmart  (Hong  Kong)  Limited,  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  the  Company  as  well  as  a 
director of various subsidiaries of the Company. Between 1993 and 1998, he has served the Group 
in  various  capacities  including  Director  of  Reefer  Trade  of  OOCLL.  The  last  position  Mr.  Tung 
held  in  Hong  Kong  Dragon  Airlines  Limited  prior  to  joining  OOCLL  in  2006  was  the  Chief 
Operating  Officer.  Mr.  Tung  holds  a  Bachelor  degree  from  Princeton  University  and  a  Master  of 
Business  Administration  from  Stanford  University  in  the  USA.  He  is  currently  a  member  of  the 
Executive Committee of Hong Kong Shipowners Association. Mr. Tung was the Vice-Chairman of 
the International Chamber of Commerce Commission for Transport & Logistics. Mr. Tung is the 
son of Mr. Tung Chee Hwa who has an interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in Fortune 
Crest  Inc.  and  Gala  Way  Company  Inc.  (substantial  shareholders  of  the  Company)  and  is  the 
brother of Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan (an Executive Director and the Acting Chief Financial Officer 
of the Company). He is the nephew of Mr. Tung Chee Chen (the Chairman, President and Chief 
Executive  Officer  of  the  Company)  who  has  an  interest  in  a  trust  which  has  an  indirect  interest 
in  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  and  Gala  Way  Company  Inc.  (substantial  shareholders  of  the  Company) 
and Professor Roger King (a Non-Executive Director of the Company). Mr. Tung is a director of 
certain substantial shareholders of the Company which have disclosure interests in the Company 
under the provisions of the Securities and Futures Ordinance.

44 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Board of DirectorstUNG lieh Sing alan

Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan, aged 47, has been an Executive Director of the Company since 1st May 
2005. Mr. Tung has become the Acting Chief Financial Officer of the Company and a member of 
the  Executive  Committee  and  the  Compliance  Committee  of  the  Company  since  1st  June  2013, 
and  a  member  of  the  Inside  Information  Committee  of  the  Company  since  7th  August  2013. 
Mr.  Tung  has  been  with  the  Group  in  various  capacities  for  twenty  two  years  and  is  a  Director 
of  various  subsidiaries  of  the  Company.  Mr.  Tung  graduated  from  Princeton  University,  Politics 
Department  with  a  Bachelor  of  Arts  degree.  Mr.  Tung  is  a  member  of  the  Hong  Kong  Economic 
Development  Commission,  a  board  member  of  the  Hong  Kong  Maritime  Museum,  an  executive 
committee  member  of  the  International  Association  of  Dry  Cargo  Shipowners  (Intercargo),  a 
member  of  the  Advisory  Committee  of  Center  for  Transport,  Trade  and  Financial  Studies  of 
the  City  University  of  Hong  Kong  and  a  member  of  the  Departmental  Advisory  Committee  of 
Department of Logistics and Maritime Studies of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University. He did 
not hold directorships in any other public companies listed in Hong Kong and overseas in the last 
three  years.  Mr.  Tung  is  the  son  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa  who  has  an  interest  in  a  trust  which  has 
an  indirect  interest  in  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  and  Gala  Way  Company  Inc.  (substantial  shareholders 
of  the  Company)  and  is  the  brother  of  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew  (an  Executive  Director  of 
the  Company).  He  is  the  nephew  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  (the  Chairman,  President  and  Chief 
Executive Officer of the Company) who has an interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in 
Fortune  Crest  Inc.  and  Gala  Way  Company  Inc.  (substantial  shareholders  of  the  Company)  and 
Professor Roger King (a Non-Executive Director of the Company).

professor roger KiNG

Professor Roger KING, aged 74, has been a Non-Executive Director of the Company since March 
2000  and  was  an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company  from  1992.  He  is  a  member  of  the  Finance 
Committee  and  the  Share  Committee  of  the  Company.  He  was  a  Director  of  Orient  Overseas 
(Holdings) Limited (“OOHL”) from 1983 to 1992 and the Managing Director and Chief Operating 
Officer of OOHL from 1985 to 1987. Professor King is a graduate of the University of Michigan, 
BSEE;  New  York  University,  MSEE;  Harvard  Business  School,  AMP;  and  The  Hong  Kong 
University of Science and Technology (“HKUST”), PhD in Finance. He is an Adjunct Professor of 
Finance,  Director  of  Tanoto  Center  for  Asian  Family  Business  and  Entrepreneurship  Studies  and 
Director  of  Thompson  Center  for  Business  Case  Studies  at  HKUST.  He  also  worked  in  computer 
research and management consultancy at Bell Telephone Laboratories. Professor King is a member 
of the Supervisory Board of TNT Express N.V. (listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange) and the 
Honorary  Consul  of  the  Republic  of  Latvia  in  Hong  Kong.  Professor  King  was  an  Independent 
Non-Executive  Director  of  Sincere  Watch  (Hong  Kong)  Limited  (listed  on  the  Hong  Kong  Stock 
Exchange),  a  member  of  the  Supervisory  Board  of  TNT  N.V.  (listed  on  the  Amsterdam  Stock 
Exchange), Chairman and founder of System-Pro Computers Limited, one of the largest personal 
computer  reseller  in  Hong  Kong,  Chairman  of  Pacific  Coffee  Limited  and  a  member  of  the 
Standing  Committee  of  Zhejiang  Province  People’s  Political  Consultative  Conference.  Professor 
King  is  the  brother-in-law  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa  who  has  an  interest  in  a  trust  which  has  an 
indirect  interest  in  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  and  Gala  Way  Company  Inc.  (substantial  shareholders  of 
the Company), and Mr. Tung Chee Chen (the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of 
the  Company)  who  has  an  interest  in  a  trust  which  has  an  indirect  interest  in  Fortune  Crest  Inc. 
and Gala Way Company Inc. (substantial shareholders of the Company) and the uncle of Mr. Tung 
Lieh  Cheung  Andrew  (an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company)  and  Mr.  Tung  Lieh  Sing  Alan  (an 
Executive Director and the Acting Chief Financial Officer of the Company).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

45

Board of DirectorsSimon MUrraY

Mr.  Simon  MURRAY,  CBE,  aged  74,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  the 
Company  since  1992  and  was  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  Orient  Overseas  (Holdings)  Limited 
from 1989 until 1992. He serves as a member on the Audit Committee of the Company. He is the 
Chairman  of  General  Enterprise  Management  Services  International  Limited  (GEMS),  a  private 
equity  fund  management  company.  He  is  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  Cheung 
Kong  (Holdings)  Limited  and  Wing  Tai  Properties  Limited  (formerly  known  as  USI  Holdings 
Limited),  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  Greenheart  Group  Limited  and  IRC  Limited,  all  are 
companies  listed  in  Hong  Kong.  Mr.  Murray  is  also  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of 
Spring Asset Management Limited, manager of Spring Real Estate Investment Trust which is listed 
in Hong Kong. On 23rd October 2014, Mr. Murray was appointed an Independent Non-Executive 
Director of China LNG Group Limited, a company listed in Hong Kong. He is the Chairman and 
an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  Gulf  Keystone  Petroleum  Ltd.,  a  company  listed  in 
the  United  Kingdom  and  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  Compagnie  Financière  Richemont  SA,  a 
company listed in Switzerland. Mr. Murray was formerly a Non-Executive Chairman of Glencore 
International  Plc  (renamed  to  Glencore  Plc),  a  company  listed  in  Hong  Kong;  an  Independent 
Director  of  Sino-Forest  Corporation,  previously  listed  in  Canada;  and  the  Vice  Chairman  and 
an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  Essar  Energy  Plc,  a  company  listed  in  the  United 
Kingdom. Mr. Murray is a member of the Former Directors Committee of The Community Chest 
of  Hong  Kong  and  has  been  involved  in  a  number  of  other  charitable  organisations,  including 
Save The Children Fund and The China Coast Community Association.

CHaNG tsann rong ernest

Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest, aged 75, has been an Independent Non-Executive Director of the 
Company  since  30th  December  2008.  He  is  a  member  of  the  Audit  Committee  of  the  Company. 
Mr.  Chang  was  an  Executive  Director  of  the  Company  from  23rd  December  1988,  a  member  of 
the Executive Committee from 30th October 1996 and the Vice Chairman of the Company from 
1st  December  2003,  all  until  30th  June  2006.  He  was  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company 
from  1st  July  2006  until  29th  December  2008  and  was  the  chairman  of  the  Remuneration 
Committee and a member of the Finance Committee, the Share Committee and the Nomination 
Committee of the Company until 8th March 2015. He is a Certified Public Accountant in Taiwan 
and holds a Master of Business Administration degree from Indiana State University, USA. He did 
not hold directorships in any other public companies listed in Hong Kong and overseas in the last 
three years.

CHoW philip Yiu Wah

Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah, aged 67, is an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company 
since  the  re-designation  from  a  Non-Executive  Director  of  the  Company  on  2nd  January  2015. 
He  is  also  the  chairman  of  the  Remuneration  Committee  and  a  member  of  the  Nomination 
Committee,  the  Finance  Committee  and  the  Share  Committee  of  the  Company.  Mr.  Chow  was 
an Executive Director of the Company from 1st December 2003 to 30th June 2012. He had been 
a Non-Executive Director and a consultant of the Company from 1st July 2012 to 31st December 
2014. Mr. Chow holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemistry and Physics from the University 
of  Hong  Kong  and  a  Master  of  Business  Administration  degree  from  the  Chinese  University  of 
Hong Kong. He did not hold directorships in any other public companies listed in Hong Kong and 
overseas in the last three years.

46 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Board of Directorsprofessor WoNG Yue Chim richard

Professor  WONG  Yue  Chim  Richard,  aged  62,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director 
of the Company since December 2003. He is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member 
of  the  Nomination  Committee  and  the  Remuneration  Committee  of  the  Company.  He  graduated 
from University of Chicago with Bachelor’s, Master’s and Ph.D. degrees in Economics and is Chair 
of Economics at The University of Hong Kong. He has been active in advancing economic research 
on policy issues in Hong Kong and China. He was awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star in 1999 by the 
Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for his contributions in education, 
housing,  industry  and  technology  development.  He  was  appointed  Justice  of  the  Peace  in  July 
2000.  Professor  Wong  is  currently  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  four  other  listed 
companies  in  Hong  Kong,  namely  CK  Life  Sciences  Int’l.,  (Holdings)  Inc.,  Great  Eagle  Holdings 
Limited, Pacific Century Premium Developments Limited and Sun Hung Kai Properties Limited. 
He is also an Independent Non-Executive Director of The Link Management Limited, the manager 
of The Link Real Estate Investment Trust, a Hong Kong listed company.

CHeNG Wai Sun edward

Mr.  CHENG  Wai  Sun  Edward,  aged  59,  has  been  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of 
the  Company  since  19th  March  2009.  He  serves  as  a  member  on  the  Audit  Committee  of  the 
Company.  Mr.  Cheng  graduated  from  Cornell  University  with  a  Bachelor’s  degree  in  Political 
Science  and  Economics,  and  Oxford  University  with  a  Bachelor’s  degree  in  Jurisprudence  and  a 
Master’s degree. He was qualified as a solicitor in England and Wales as well as in Hong Kong. He 
is a Justice of the Peace and has been awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star by the Government of the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region.  Mr.  Cheng  is  an  Executive  Director,  Chief  Executive 
and  Deputy  Chairman  of  Wing  Tai  Properties  Limited,  a  company  listed  on  The  Stock  Exchange 
of  Hong  Kong  Limited  and  also  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of  Standard  Chartered 
Bank  (Hong  Kong)  Limited.  Mr.  Cheng  resigned  as  an  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  of 
Television Broadcasts Limited effective 1st January 2015, a company listed on The Stock Exchange 
of Hong Kong Limited. Mr. Cheng has many years of public service experience in urban renewal, 
housing,  finance,  corruption  prevention,  technology  and  education.  He  is  the  Chairman  of  the 
University  Grants  Committee,  a  member  of  the  board  of  The  Airport  Authority  Hong  Kong  and 
a  member  of  the  Commission  on  Strategic  Development  of  the  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region.  Mr.  Cheng  was  the  former  Chairman  of  the  Urban  Renewal 
Authority  and  former  member  of  the  Advisory  Committee  on  Corruption  of  the  Independent 
Commission Against Corruption. He has also previously served on the Government of the Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region’s  Steering  Committee  on  Innovation  &  Technology,  the 
Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Education,  the  Council  of  the  City  University  of  Hong 
Kong, the Council of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, the Executive Committee of the Hong 
Kong  Housing  Society,  the  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified  Public  Accountants, 
the  Securities  and  Futures  Commission’s  Takeovers  and  Mergers  Panel  and  the  Takeovers  Appeal 
Committee, and was a part-time member of the Central Policy Unit.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

47

Board of Directors  Michael Kwok
Mr.  Kwok,  aged  60,  has  been  the  Chief  Operating  Officer  of  OOCL  since 
July  2012,  a  Director  of  OOCL  since  August  2010  and  Head  of  Regions 
Management  since  September  2013.  He  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Business 
Administration  from  Chinese  University  of  Hong  Kong.  Mr.  Kwok  joined 
the  Group  in  1978  and  has  served  the  Group  in  various  capacities  for  36 
years,  including  serving  as  Director  of  Intra  Asia  Trade,  Head  of  Fleet 
Management and Corporate Logistics and Director of Trades.

  erxin Yao
Mr.  Yao,  aged  57,  has  been  a  Director  of  OOCL  since  January  2010  and 
a  Director  of  Corporate  Planning  and  Corporation  Administration  since 
January 2013. He holds a Bachelor of Arts from Toronto/Fudan University 
joint  program  and  a  Master  of  International  Affairs  from  Columbia 
University.  Mr.  Yao  joined  the  Group  in  1993  and  has  served  the  Group 
in  various  capacities  for  21  years,  including  serving  as  Executive  Vice-
President  and  Head  of  Corporate  Services  of  OOCL  Logistics  in  Hong 
Kong, Managing Director of Orient Overseas Container Line (China) Co., 
Ltd. and OOCL Logistics (China) Limited based in Shanghai and President 
of OOCL (USA) Inc.

  Steve Siu
Mr.  Siu,  aged  57,  has  been  the  Chief  Information 
Officer  and  a  Director  of  OOCL  since  November 
2006  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  CargoSmart 
since January 2002. He holds a Bachelor of Science 
and  a  Master  of  Science  from  University  of  Essex, 
UK and a Master of Business Administration jointly 
organised  by  Northwestern  University  and  The 
Hong  Kong  University  of  Science  and  Technology. 
Mr.  Siu  joined  the  Group  in  1987  and  has  served 
the Group in various capacities for 27 years.

  Stephen Ng
Mr.  Ng,  aged  56,  has  been  the  Director  of 
Trades  since  July  2012,  Director  of  Corporate 
Planning  until  June  2012  and  a  Director  of 
OOCL since August 2010. He holds a Bachelor 
of  Social  Sciences  from  University  of  Hong 
Kong and a Master of Business Administration 
from Chinese University of Hong Kong. Mr. Ng 
joined  the  Group  in  1987  and  has  served  the 
Group in various capacities for 27 years. Before 
being  transferred  back  to  Hong  Kong  in  2010, 
he worked in California for seven years as Head 
of Trans-Pacific Trade.

  lammy lee
Ms. Lee, aged 53, has been the Company Secretary 
and Group Legal Advisor of OOIL since February 
1997 and Compliance Officer of OOIL since June 
2004. She was appointed a Director of OOCL and 
a  member  of  the  OOCL  Executive  Committee 
since  1st  April  2011.  Ms.  Lee  holds  a  Bachelor  of 
Laws  from  Queen  Mary  College,  University  of 
London,  a  Barrister  and  member  of  Lincoln’s  Inn 
and  admitted  as  an  advocate  and  solicitor  of  the 
High  Court  of  Malaya.  Ms.  Lee  joined  the  Group 
in  1988  and  has  served  the  Group  in  various 
capacities for 26 years.

48 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Senior ManagementAnnouncement of results for the half year ended 30th June 2014

11th August 2014

Despatch of 2014 Interim Report to shareholders

4th September 2014

Announcement of results for the year ended 31st December 2014

Despatch of 2014 Annual Report to shareholders

Closure of the Register of Members

(to ascertain the shareholders eligible to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting)

2014 Annual General Meeting

Closure of the Register of Members

(to ascertain the shareholders qualified to receive the proposed final dividend

in respect of the year ended 31st December 2014)

9th March 2015

2nd April 2015

24th April 2015 to

30th April 2015

(Both days inclusive)

30th April 2015

8th May 2015 to

12th May 2015

(Both days inclusive)

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

49

Financial Calendar 
orDiNarY SHareS

Issued shares
Nominal value per share
Board lot

aNNUal report

625,793,297 shares (as at 31st December 2014)
US$0.10
500 shares

This annual report is available in both English and Chinese.

Shareholders can obtain copies by writing to:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited
17M Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong

If you are not a shareholder, please write to:
Orient Overseas (International) Limited
33rd Floor, Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road
Wanchai, Hong Kong
Attn: Company Secretary

This annual report is also available at our website at http://www.ooilgroup.com.

SHareHolDer SerViCeS

Any  matter  relating  to  your  shareholding,  including  transfer  of  shares,  change  of  name  or  address,  and  loss  of  share  certificates 
should be addressed in writing to:

Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited
17M Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong
Telephone: (852) 2862 8555 

Facsimile: (852) 2865 0990

SHareHolDer eNQUirieS

Any matter relating to shareholders’ rights should be addressed in writing to:

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
33rd Floor, Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road
Wanchai, Hong Kong
Attn: Company Secretary

Our enquiry hotline is operational during normal office hours:
Facsimile: (852) 2531 8147

Telephone: (852) 2833 3888 

50 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Shareholder InformationSHareHolDer iNforMatioN

Ordinary shareholder information as at 31st December 2014:

Share ownership by type

type of Shareholders

Corporate
Individual

Shareholding Distribution

Size of shareholding

1 – 10,000
10,001 – 100,000
100,001 – 1,000,000
1,000,001 or above

Shareholders

Shares of US$0.10 each

Number

percentage

Number

percentage

25
984

1,009

2.4777%
97.5223%

619,923,716
5,869,581

100.00%

625,793,297

99.0621%
0.9379%

100.00%

Shareholders

Shares of US$0.10 each

Number

percentage

Number

percentage

939
61
5
4

93.0624%
6.0456%
0.4955%
0.3965%

1,357,454
1,936,015
1,493,013
621,006,815

1,009

100.00%

625,793,297

0.2169%
0.3094%
0.2386%
99.2351%

100.00%

ten largest ordinary Shareholders

At  31st  December  2014,  the  interests  of  the  ten  largest  ordinary  shareholders  of  the  Company,  as  recorded  in  the  Company’s 
principal register and Hong Kong branch register of members, were as follows:

Name of ordinary shareholder

Fortune Crest Inc.
HKSCC Nominees Limited
Gala Way Company Inc.
Mok Kwun Cheung
Chang Tsann Rong Ernest
So Tung Lam
Tam Wing Fan
Ho Fuk Chuen
Tai Wing Kee
Leung Man Kit Albo

Number of ordinary
shares held

percentage

350,722,656
189,797,616
79,227,432
1,259,111
612,731
500,000
157,322
116,060
106,900
100,000

56.04%
30.33%
12.66%
0.20%
0.10%
0.08%
0.03%
0.02%
0.02%
0.02%

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

51

Shareholder InformationCorporate GoVerNaNCe CoDe

The  Board  of  Directors  (the  “Board”)  and  the  management  of  the  Company  are  committed  to  maintaining  high  standards  of 
corporate  governance  and  the  Company  considers  that  effective  corporate  governance  makes  an  important  contribution  to 
corporate success and to the enhancement of shareholder value.

The Company has adopted its own corporate governance code (the “CG Code”), which in addition to applying the principles as set 
out in the Corporate Governance Code and Corporate Governance Report (the “SEHK Code”) contained in Appendix 14 to the 
Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”), also incorporates 
and conforms to local and international best practices. The CG Code sets out the corporate governance principles applied by the 
Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) and is constantly reviewed to ensure transparency, accountability and independence.

Throughout the year 2014, the Company complied with the SEHK Code, save for the following:

•  Code provision

Code provision

Deviation

Considered reason for deviation

Separation of the roles 
of chairman and chief 
executive officer of a listed 
issuer.

Mr. TUNG Chee Chen currently 
assumes the roles of both Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer of the 
Company.

The executive members of the Board currently consist 
of chief executive officer of the principal division of the 
Group and there is an effective separation of the roles 
between the chief executive of its principal division and 
the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. The Board 
considers that further separation of the roles of the 
Chief Executive Officer and Chairman would represent 
duplication and is not necessary for the time being.

•  recommended Best practices

• 
• 

the remuneration of senior management is disclosed in bands
operational results are announced and published quarterly instead of financial results

52 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Corporate Governance ReportWe have set out in this report our guiding principles and rationale for implementation of the CG Code as well as the status of the 
Company’s compliance with Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules during the year 2014:

a.  BoarD of DireCtorS

1.  Board Composition

The  Board  currently  comprises  of  three  Executive  Directors,  one  Non-Executive  Director  and  five  Independent  Non-
Executive Directors.

executive Directors

Mr. TUNG Chee Chen (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan (Acting Chief Financial Officer)

Non-executive Director

Professor Roger KING

independent Non-executive Directors

Mr. Simon MURRAY
Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest
Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah*
Professor WONG Yue Chim Richard
Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward

* 

re-designated from a Non-Executive Director to an Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 2nd January 2015.

The  biographical  details  of  the  Directors  and  the  relevant  relationships  between  them  are  set  out  on  the  Company’s 
website at http://www.ooilgroup.com and on pages 44 to 47 of this annual report.

The Directors have formal letters of appointment setting out the key terms and conditions of their appointment, and are 
for a fixed term of three years and subject to re-election by rotation at least once every three years.

The  Directors  have  extensive  corporate  and  strategic  planning  experience  and  industry  knowledge.  All  Independent 
Non-Executive Directors are financially independent from the Group bringing independent and diversified experience, 
competencies, skills and judgment to the Group’s strategy and policies through their informed contributions. The Board 
considers that there is a reasonable balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and has provided adequate 
checks and balances for safeguarding the interests of the shareholders and the Group.

The  Company  has  received  from  each  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  a  written  annual  confirmation  of  their 
independence and considers that all the Independent Non-Executive Directors have satisfied their independence to the 
Group up to the date of this annual report.

During  the  year  2014,  the  Board  complied  with  the  Listing  Rules’  requirement  in  having  at  least  three  Independent 
Non-Executive  Directors  representing  at  least  one-third  of  the  Board,  including  one  with  appropriate  professional 
qualifications or accounting or related financial management expertise.

Among the members of the Board, Professor Roger KING (Non-Executive Director of the Company) is the brother-in-
law of Mr. TUNG Chee Chen (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company). Both Mr. TUNG Lieh 
Cheung Andrew  (Executive Director of the Company) and Mr. TUNG Lieh  Sing Alan (Executive Director and Acting 
Chief  Financial  Officer  of  the  Company)  are  the  nephews  of  both  Mr.  TUNG  Chee  Chen  and  Professor  Roger  KING 
and Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew and Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan are brothers.

Directors’ and officers’ liabilities insurance

Since  1990,  the  Company  has  arranged  insurance  cover  for  directors’  and  officers’  liabilities  including  cover  for 
Directors, officers and senior management of the Group arising out of corporate activities.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

53

Corporate Governance Report2.  Board and Management responsibilities

The  Board  is  responsible  for  the  overall  strategic  direction  and  management  of  the  business  and  affairs  of  the  Group 
with  the  objective  of  enhancing  shareholder  value  and  presenting  a  balanced,  clear  and  understandable  assessment  of 
the Company’s performance, position and prospects in the annual and interim reports, and announcements and other 
financial  disclosures  as  required  under  the  Listing  Rules,  and  reports  to  regulators  any  information  required  to  be 
disclosed pursuant to statutory requirements.

The Board has a fiduciary duty and statutory responsibility towards the Company and the Group. Other responsibilities 
include formulation of the Group’s overall strategies and policies, setting of corporate and management targets and key 
operational  initiatives,  setting  of  policies  on  risk  management  pursuant  to  the  Group’s  strategic  objectives,  monitoring 
and  control  of  operational  and  financial  performance,  and  approval  of  budgets  and  major  capital  expenditures,  major 
investments,  material  acquisitions  and  disposals  of  assets,  corporate  or  financial  restructuring,  significant  operational, 
financial and management matters.

The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business of the Group to the management of the principal division 
under  the  leadership  and  supervision  of  the  Chief  Executive  Officer,  who  will  implement  and  report  to  the  Board  on 
adoption of the Company’s strategies, policies and objectives by the principal division of the Group.

The Board also delegates certain specific responsibilities to eight committees (Executive Committee, Audit Committee, 
Remuneration  Committee,  Nomination  Committee,  Compliance  Committee,  Finance  Committee,  Share  Committee 
and  Inside  Information  Committee).  The  composition  and  functions  of  each  committee  are  described  below.  These 
committees have specific functions and authority to examine issues and report to the Board with their recommendations 
(if appropriate). The final decision rests with the Board, unless otherwise provided for in the terms of reference of the 
relevant committees.

The  Company  Secretary  provides  the  Directors  with  updates  on  developments  regarding  the  Listing  Rules  and  other 
applicable  regulatory  requirements.  Any  Director  may  request  the  Company  Secretary  to  organise  independent 
professional  advice  at  the  expense  of  the  Company  to  assist  the  Directors  to  effectively  discharge  their  duties  to  the 
Company. No such independent professional advice was requested by any Director in 2014.

3.  Chairman and Chief executive officer

Mr.  TUNG  Chee  Chen  is  the  Chairman  and  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the  Company  with  the  respective  roles  set 
out in writing.

a.  The  primary  role  of  the  Chairman  is  to  provide  leadership  to  the  Board  and  to  ensure  that  the  Board  functions 

effectively in the discharge of its responsibilities. His duties include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

ensure that Directors are briefed and have received timely, accurate, complete and clear information on issues 
to be discussed at Board meetings;

ensure  that  the  Board  works  effectively  and  performs  its  responsibilities,  and  that  all  key  and  appropriate 
issues  were  discussed  in  a  timely  manner  and  that  good  corporate  governance  practices  and  procedures  are 
established, implemented and maintained;

approve  the  agenda  drawn  up  by  the  Company  Secretary  for  each  Board  meeting  taking  into  account  any 
matter proposed by other Directors for inclusion in the agenda;

promote a culture of openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors 
(including  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors)  in  particular  and  ensuring  constructive  relations  between 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors; and encourage Directors with different views to voice their concerns, 
allow sufficient time for discussion of issues and ensure that Board decisions fairly reflect Board consensus;

at  least  annually  to  hold  meetings  with  the  Non-Executive  Directors  (including  Independent  Non-Executive 
Directors) without the presence of the other Executive Directors;

54 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Corporate Governance Report– 

– 

ensure effective communication with shareholders and that their views are communicated to the Board; and 
to

attend  the  annual  general  meetings  and  invite  the  chairmen  of  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration 
Committee, the Nomination Committee and the other Board committees, or in the absence of the chairman 
of the respective Board committees, other members of the related Board committees to be available to answer 
questions at the annual general meetings.

In case of an equality of votes at any Board meeting, the Chairman shall be entitled to a second or casting vote.

b.  The primary role of the Chief Executive Officer is to be responsible for the day-to-day management and operation 

of the Company and Group business. His duties include to:

– 

provide leadership and supervise the effective management of the principal division of the Group;

–  monitor and control the operational and financial performance of the principal division of the Group;

– 

– 

– 

implement and report to the Board on the adoption of the Company’s strategies, policies and objectives by the 
principal division of the Group;

provide  information  to  the  Board  (as  necessary)  to  enable  the  Board  to  monitor  the  performance  of 
management and operation of the principal division of the Group; and to

set  up  programmes  for  management  development  and  succession  planning  for  the  principal  division  of  the 
Group.

4.  Board Meetings

Regular Board meetings are scheduled one year in advance to maximise the attendance of Directors. The Board meets at 
least four times each year and has a formal schedule of matters referred to it for consideration and decision. Additional 
meetings may be convened as and when necessary. Notice of at least fourteen days is served for regular Board meetings 
and reasonable notice is given for all other Board meetings. Directors are consulted and provided with an opportunity to 
include matters into the agenda for discussion at the Board meetings. The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in 
preparing the agenda for each Board meeting and to ensure that applicable rules and regulations regarding the meetings 
are observed. The final agenda together with the Board papers are distributed to the Directors at least three days before 
the Board meetings.

If a Director (who may also be a substantial shareholder of the Company) has a conflict of interest in any matter to be 
considered by the Board, the Company Secretary shall ensure that such matter is dealt with by a physical Board meeting 
rather  than  a  written  resolution.  If  considered  appropriate,  the  Board  meeting  shall  be  attended  by  Independent  Non-
Executive Directors who have no material interests in the matter. The affected Director shall abstain from voting on any 
such resolution in which they or any of their associates have a material interest and shall not be counted in the quorum 
present at that Board meeting.

The Company Secretary shall ensure that the procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed. Copies of all 
signed minutes of the Board are sent to the Directors for their record.

5.  professional Development

In addition to Directors’ attendance at meetings and review of papers and circulars sent by the Company, the Directors 
have participated in continuous professional development programme to develop and refresh their knowledge and skills 
to help ensure that their contribution to the Board remains informed and relevant.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

55

Corporate Governance ReportThe programme for continuous professional development of Directors takes various forms including:

• 

• 

• 

• 

the  Company  briefing  Directors  on  important  issues  which  have  material  impact  on  the  Company’s  business, 
financial  and  operational  matters  including  major  investments,  corporate  governance  practices  and  funding 
strategy;

Directors meeting senior management of the Group on issues specific to the Group’s business;

Directors reading materials and updates on the regulatory changes followed by briefings by the Company Secretary 
of the Company, if requested; and

Directors  attending  external  seminars  on  business,  financial,  governance,  regulatory  and  other  issues  relevant  to 
the Group’s activities.

Below is the record of participation in continuous professional development programme by the current Directors of the 
Company  in  year  2014  relevant  to  the  directors’  duties  and  responsibilities,  regulatory  updates  and  business,  financial 
and operational matters of the Group.

executive Directors
Mr. TUNG Chee Chen
Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan

Non-executive Director
Professor Roger KING

independent Non-executive Directors
Mr. Simon MURRAY
Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest
Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah*
Professor WONG Yue Chim Richard
Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward

reading materials

attending external
seminars/briefings

3
3
3

3

3
3
3
3
3

3

3
3

* 

re-designated from a Non-Executive Director to an Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 2nd January 2015.

6.  Supply of and access to information

All Directors have access to Board’s and Committees’ papers and other materials either from the Company Secretary or 
the Chairman so that they are able to make informed decisions on matters placed before them.

7.  Nomination of Directors

The  Nomination  Committee  was  established  in  2012.  The  Committee  reviews  the  structure,  size  and  composition 
(including  the  skills,  knowledge,  experience  and  from  diversity  perspective)  of  the  Board  regularly  and  makes 
recommendation  to  the  Board.  The  Company  follows  a  formal,  considered  and  transparent  procedure  for  the 
appointment  of  new  Directors  to  the  Board.  The  appointment  of  a  new  Director  is  a  collective  decision  of  the  Board, 
taking  into  consideration  the  expertise,  experience,  integrity  and  commitment  of  that  appointee  to  the  principal 
division, the Company and the Group.

Each  Director  shall,  after  his  appointment  and  semi-annually  thereafter,  disclose  to  the  Board  the  number  and  nature 
of  offices  held  by  such  Director  in  other  public  companies  and  organisations  and  any  other  significant  commitments, 
together with the identity of the public companies and organisations and an indication of time involved.

At  the  annual  general  meeting  of  the  Company  held  on  25th  April  2014  (the  “2013  AGM”),  Mr.  TUNG  Lieh  Cheung 
Andrew, Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah and Mr. Simon MURRAY retired and were re-elected as Directors of the Company.

56 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Corporate Governance Report8.  Board Committees

In  addition  to  the  Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee  and  the  Nomination  Committee  established  in 
compliance with the Listing Rules, the other committees comprise of the Executive Committee, the Finance Committee, 
the Share Committee, the Compliance Committee and the Inside Information Committee. Each committee has its own 
well defined scope of duties and terms of reference. The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration 
Committee  and  the  Nomination  Committee  are  available  on  the  Company’s  website  and  the  HKExnews  website.  The 
Company  Secretary  shall  also  make  available  the  terms  of  reference  of  all  the  committees  to  any  shareholder  upon 
receipt of a written request from such shareholder. The members of a committee are empowered to make decisions on 
matters within the terms of reference of such committee. Copies of all signed minutes of the committees are sent to the 
members of the respective committees and the Directors of the Company for their record.

a.  executive Committee

The Executive Committee was established in 1996. All its members are Executive Directors. It currently comprises 
of  Mr.  TUNG  Chee  Chen  (chairman  of  the  Executive  Committee),  Mr.  TUNG  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew  and  Mr. 
TUNG Lieh Sing Alan, with Ms. Lammy LEE as the secretary of the Executive Committee.

The  Executive  Committee  operates  as  an  executive  management  committee  under  the  direct  authority  of  the 
Board. Its primary duties include to:

– 

formulate strategies and policies and to set corporate and management targets and operational initiatives and 
policies on risk management for the principal division of the Group and plans and operational directions for 
the Group;

–  monitor,  control  and  manage  operational  and  financial  performance  and  business  affairs  of  the  principal 

division of the Group;

– 

– 

– 

– 

review,  discuss  and  approve  (if  appropriate)  (i)  press  announcements,  circulars  and  other  documents 
(including  inside  information  and  financial  information)  required  to  be  disclosed  pursuant  to  the  Listing 
Rules,  regulatory  or  statutory  requirements;  (ii)  submissions  from  the  Compliance  Committee,  the  Finance 
Committee  and  the  Share  Committee  and,  if  appropriate,  to  recommend  to  the  Board  for  consideration  and 
approval;

approve capital expenditure for a specified amount;

liaise  and  consult  with,  advise  and  make  recommendations  to  its  subsidiaries  and  make  such  decisions  with 
regard thereto as the Executive Committee shall in its absolute discretion think fit, and refer such matters as it 
thinks fit to the Board of the Company for consideration, approval and/or ratification, if necessary; and to

report to the Board on its decisions, and any matter in respect of which it considers that action is needed, and 
its recommendations as to the steps to be taken.

b.  audit Committee

The  Audit  Committee  was  established  in  1992.  All  its  members  are  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors.  It 
currently  comprises  of  Professor  WONG  Yue  Chim  Richard  (chairman  of  the  Audit  Committee),  Mr.  Simon 
MURRAY,  Mr.  CHANG  Tsann  Rong  Ernest  and  Mr.  CHENG  Wai  Sun  Edward,  with  Mr.  FUNG  Yee  Chung 
Vincent, the Head of Internal Audit as the secretary and Ms. Lammy LEE as the assistant secretary.

The  Audit  Committee  is  delegated  by  the  Board  with  the  responsibility  to  provide  an  independent  review  and 
supervision of financial reporting and to ensure the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and the adequacy 
of the external and internal audit. To perform its duties, the Audit Committee is provided with sufficient resources 
and  is  supported  by  the  Internal  Audit  Department  to  examine  all  matters  relating  to  the  Group’s  adopted 
accounting principles and practices and to review all material financial, operational and compliance controls. The 
terms of reference of the Audit Committee are posted on the Company’s website.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

57

Corporate Governance ReportThe primary duties of the Audit Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

recommend  to  the  Board  on  the  appointment,  reappointment  and  removal  of  the  external  auditor,  and  to 
approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor, and any question of its resignation 
or dismissal;

act as the key representative body overseeing the Company’s relation with the external auditor;

seek from the external auditor, on an annual basis, information about policies and processes for maintaining 
independence  and  monitoring  compliance  with  relevant  requirements,  including  provision  of  non-audit 
services and requirements regarding rotation of audit partners and staff;

discuss  with  the  external  auditor  any  recommendation  arising  from  the  audit,  and  to  review  the  external 
auditor’s  management  letter,  any  material  queries  raised  by  the  external  auditor  to  management  about 
accounting  records,  financial  accounts  or  systems  of  control  and  management’s  response,  and  to  ensure  that 
the Board will provide timely response to the issues raised in the external auditor’s management letter;

establish  and  review  from  time  to  time  the  procedure  to  review  and  monitor  the  external  auditor’s 
independence and objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process and the scope of the external auditor, 
and to discuss and understand the factors considered by the external auditor in determining the scope of the 
audit and reporting obligations before the audit commences;

establish and review from time to time the policy relating to hiring of employees or former employees of the 
external auditor and monitor the application of such policy; and to consider whether as a result of such hiring 
there has been any impairment of the auditor’s judgment or independence in respect of the audit;

establish  and  review  from  time  to time the policy on engaging external auditor to supply non-audit services 
and  to  review  such  services  do  not  impair  the  external  auditor’s  independence  or  objectivity  in  relation  to 
non-audit  services  including  whether  the  skills  and  experience  of  the  external  auditor  make  it  a  suitable 
supplier  of  non-audit  services;  whether  there  are  safeguards  in  place  to  ensure  that  there  is  no  threat  to  the 
objectivity  and  independence  of  the  audit  because  the  external  auditor  provides  non-audit  services;  and  the 
nature  of  the  non-audit  services,  the  related  fee  levels  and  fee  levels  individually  and  in  total  relative  to  the 
external auditor;

review the Group’s financial and accounting policies and practices;

review  the  Company’s  annual,  quarterly  (if  prepared  for  publication)  and  interim  financial  reports  and 
significant financial reporting judgments contained in them, with particular focus on changes in accounting 
policies  and  practices,  major  judgmental  areas,  any  significant  audit  adjustment,  the  going  concern 
assumption  and  any  qualification,  compliance  with  any  applicable  legal  requirements  and  accounting 
standards, and compliance with the requirements of the Listing Rules and other legal requirements in relation 
to financial reporting;

consider  any  significant  or  unusual  item  that  is,  or  may  need  to  be,  reflected  in  the  reports  and  accounts 
and  to  give  due  consideration  to  any  matter  that  has  been  raised  by  the  Financial  Compliance  Officer  of 
the  Company,  the  external  auditor,  the  Head  of  Internal  Audit  Department  or  the  staff  responsible  for  the 
accounting and financial reporting function;

review  with  the  Group’s  management,  the  external  auditor  and  the  internal  auditor,  the  adequacy  of  the 
Group’s  policies  and  procedures  regarding  internal  control  system  (including  financial,  operational  and 
compliance  controls)  and  risk  management  system  to  ensure  that  such  systems  are  effective  with  audit  trails 
to protect the accuracy and integrity of financial data and to pursue relevant enquiries into matters having, or 
likely to have, a material effect on the business and financial conditions of the Group. The result of the review 
is to be reported in the Corporate Governance Report of the Company, including a Directors’ statement that 
they have conducted a review of its internal control system;

58 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Corporate Governance Report– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

discuss  with  the  management  the  scope  and  quality  of  the  internal  control  system  and  to  ensure  that 
management  has  performed  its  duty  to  have  an  effective  internal  control  system  including  the  adequacy  of 
resources,  staff  qualification  and  experience,  training  programmes  and  budget  and  experience  of  staff  of  the 
accounting and financial reporting function;

review findings of internal investigation and management’s response of any suspected frauds or irregularities 
or failures of internal control or infringements of laws, rules and regulations;

review  the  scope  and  effectiveness  of  the  internal  audit  functions  and  to  review  the  results  of  the  internal 
audit  functions  regularly  with  the  internal  auditor  matters  including  planning  of  the  Audit  Committee 
meetings and, if required by the internal auditor, the internal audit programme; and to ensure co-ordination 
between  the  internal  and  external  auditors  and  that  the  internal  audit  function  is  adequately  resourced  and 
has appropriate standing within the Company and to review and monitor its effectiveness;

review  the  effectiveness  and  monitor  the  use  of  the  whistleblowing  policy  and  procedures  for  employees  to 
raise  concerns,  in  confidence,  to  the  Audit  Committee  about  improprieties  in  financial  reporting,  internal 
control  and  other  matters;  and  to  ensure  that  proper  arrangements  are  in  place  for  fair  and  independent 
investigation of these improprieties and for appropriate follow-up action;

report to the Board on the matters raised in the SEHK Code; and to

report to the Board, identifying and making recommendations on any matter where action or improvement is 
needed and to consider other topics identified and referred to the Audit Committee by the Board.

Under  the  Group’s  whistleblowing  policy,  employees  may  report  any  concern  regarding  accounting,  internal 
accounting controls and auditing matters to the Audit Committee without fear of dismissal or retaliation, in order 
to  ensure  that  the  Group  complies  with  all  the  applicable  laws  and  regulations,  accounting  standards,  accounting 
controls and audit practices. The Audit Committee will review each complaint and decide on how the investigation 
should be conducted. In 2014, the Audit Committee received no complaint from employees.

The Audit Committee held two meetings during the year ended 31st December 2014. The following is a summary 
of work performed by the Audit Committee during 2014:

(i) 

reviewed  and  discussed  the  annual  accounts  for  2013  and  the  interim  accounts  for  2014  with  the  external 
auditor and management of the Company, with recommendations to the Board for approval;

(ii)  reviewed the significant audit and accounting issues arising from the external auditor’s statutory audit of the 

2013 annual accounts and issues arising from the review of the 2014 interim accounts;

(iii)  reviewed the impact of the new and revised accounting standards on the Company;

(iv)  reviewed the external auditor’s audit strategy and approach;

(v)  reviewed the non-audit services provided by the external auditor in 2013;

(vi)  reviewed the Internal Audit Department’s audit objectives and approval of the annual internal audit plan;

(vii)  reviewed  the  findings  and  recommendations  of  the  Internal  Audit  Department  on  the  audits  carried  out  on 

the principal activities of the Group during the year 2013;

(viii)  reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

59

Corporate Governance Report(ix)  reviewed  the  relevant  sections  in  the  Corporate  Governance  Report  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2013 

concerning the Audit Committee;

(x)  reviewed the adequacy of the resources, staff qualifications and experience, training programmes and budget 

of the Company’s accounting and financial reporting function;

(xi)  reviewed the continuing connected transactions and their annual caps; and

(xii)  reviewed the continuous implementation of the whistleblowing policy.

The minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are prepared by the secretary of the Audit Committee with details 
of all matters considered by the attendees and of decisions reached, including any concern raised by the attendees 
and  dissenting  views  expressed.  The  final  version  of  the  minutes  is  sent  to  the  attendees  for  their  records.  The 
minutes are open for inspection by the Committee members and the Board members.

c.  remuneration Committee

The Remuneration Committee was established in 2005. A majority of its members are Independent Non-Executive 
Directors.  With  effect  from  9th  March  2015,  the  Remuneration  Committee  comprises  of  Mr.  CHOW  Philip 
Yiu  Wah  (chairman  of  the  Remuneration  Committee),  Mr.  TUNG  Chee  Chen  and  Professor  WONG  Yue  Chim 
Richard, with Ms. Lammy LEE as the secretary of the Remuneration Committee.

The primary duties of the Remuneration Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review  and  recommend  to  the  Board  on  the  Company’s  policy  and  structure  of  the  remuneration  of  the 
Directors  of  the  Company,  senior  management  and  employees  of  the  Group  including  performance-based 
bonus  scheme  on  the  basis  that  they  are  fairly  but  responsibly  rewarded  for  their  individual  contribution  to 
the overall performance of the Company;

establish and review a formal and transparent procedure for developing remuneration policy;

(i)  review  and  approve  the  management’s  remuneration  proposals  with  reference  to  the  Board’s  corporate 
goals  and  objectives;  and  determine  with  delegated  responsibilities  the  remuneration  packages  of  individual 
Executive  Directors  of  the  Company  and  senior  management;  and  (ii)  recommend  to  the  Board  on  the 
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

consult the Chairman of the Board and/or Chief Executive Officer of the Company about their remuneration 
proposals for the other Executive Directors of the Company and senior management;

review and approve compensation payable to the Executive Directors of the Company and senior management 
for any loss or termination of office or appointment to ensure that it is consistent with contractual terms and 
is otherwise fair and not excessive;

review and approve compensation arrangements relating to dismissal or removal of Directors for misconduct 
to ensure that they are consistent with contractual terms and are otherwise reasonable and appropriate;

ensure  that  no  Director  or  any  of  his  associates  or  senior  management  is  involved  in  deciding  his  own 
remuneration; and to

advise  the  Board  any  matter  relating  to  the  remuneration  or  reward  of  the  Executive  Directors  of  the 
Company or senior management or employees of the Group.

60 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Corporate Governance ReportThe Remuneration Committee held three meetings and passed resolutions by way of written resolution during the 
year ended 31st December 2014. The following is a summary of work performed by the Remuneration Committee 
during 2014, including:

(i) 

reviewed the Company’s policy and remuneration structure for the Directors of the Company, and the senior 
management and employees of the Group;

(ii)  reviewed the procedure for developing remuneration policy;

(iii)  reviewed and recommended to the Board the consultancy fee of Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah as consultant of 

the Company;

(iv)  reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  the  director’s  fee  and  committee  member’s  fee  for  several  Non-

Executive Directors of the Company;

(v)  reviewed  the  discretionary  management  bonus  of  the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Company,  and  the  senior 

management and employees of the Group for the year 2013; and

(vi)  reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  or  determined  with  delegated  responsibilities,  as  the  case  may  be, 
in accordance with the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, the remuneration packages of the 
Directors of the Company, and the senior management and employees of the Group for the year 2014.

No Director was involved in determining his own remuneration.

d.  Nomination Committee

The Nomination Committee was established in 2012. A majority of its members of the Nomination Committee are 
Independent  Non-Executive  Directors.  With  effect  from  9th  March  2015,  the  Nomination  Committee  comprises 
of  Mr.  TUNG  Chee  Chen  (chairman  of  the  Nomination  Committee),  Mr.  CHOW  Philip  Yiu  Wah  and  Professor 
WONG Yue Chim Richard, with Ms. Lammy LEE as the secretary of the Nomination Committee.

The primary duties of the Nomination Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

review and make recommendation to the Board on the Company’s policy for nomination of Directors;

establish  and  review  a  formal,  considered  and  transparent  procedures  for  the  appointment  of  new  directors 
and have plans in place for orderly succession for appointments;

review  and  report  annually  on  implementation  of  the  board  diversity  policy  of  the  Company  (the  “Board 
Diversity Policy”), and progress (if relevant);

review  the  structure,  size  and  composition  (including  the  skills,  knowledge,  experience  and  from  diversity 
perspective)  of  the  Board  at  least  annually  and  recommend  on  any  proposed  change  to  the  Board  to 
complement the Company’s corporate strategy;

identify,  nominate  and  recommend  to  the  Board  suitably  qualified  candidate,  based  on  meritocracy  and  the 
Board Diversity Policy appropriate for the Company’s business and specific needs, to become a director of the 
Company either to fill a casual vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board;

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

61

Corporate Governance Report– 

– 

– 

– 

– 

recommend  to  the  Board  on  the  appointment  or  re-appointment/re-election  of  Directors  and  succession 
planning for Directors to maintain a balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of perspectives of 
the Board;

assess and report to the Board the qualifications of any person proposed by a shareholder of the Company for 
election as a director of the Company to ensure compliance with the nomination policy of the Company and 
the requirements as provided in the Listing Rules are satisfied;

assess the independence of Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

regularly  review  and  report  to  the  Board  the  contribution  required  from  a  Director  of  the  Company  to 
perform his responsibilities and whether he is spending sufficient time performing them; and to

assess performance of the Executive Directors and conduct a regular evaluation of the Board’s performance by 
a member of the Nomination Committee, who is an Independent Non-Executive Director, and report results 
of the evaluation to the Board.

The Nomination Committee held two meetings and passed resolutions by way of written resolution during the year 
ended 31st December 2014. The following is a summary of work performed by the Nomination Committee during 
2014, including:

(i) 

reviewed the Company’s policy for nomination of Directors;

(ii)  reviewed procedures for appointment of new Directors and plans for orderly succession;

(iii)  reviewed the implementation of the Board Diversity Policy of the Company;

(iv)  reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board of the Company;

(v)  recommended to the Board the extension of the consultancy contract of Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah;

(vi)  recommended re-election of the retiring directors at the annual general meeting of the Company held on 25th 

April 2014;

(vii)  assessed independence of the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company;

(viii) reviewed the contribution of the Directors of the Company for the year 2013; and

(ix)  evaluated performance of the Board and assessed performance of the Executive Directors of the Company by 
a member of the Nomination Committee who is an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company in 
accordance with the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee.

The Board Diversity Policy is summarized as follows:

– 

the  Company  ensures  that  its  Board  has  the  appropriate  balance  of  skills,  experience  and  diversity  of 
perspective of the Board requires to support the execution of its business strategy and in order for the Board 
to be effective;

62 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Corporate Governance Report– 

– 

selection of candidates will be based on a range of perspectives, including but not limited to age, culture and 
educational  background,  ethnicity,  industry  experience,  skills,  knowledge  and  length  of  service.  The  Board’s 
appointment  should  be  based  on  meritocracy  and  diversity  of  perspectives  appropriate  for  the  Company’s 
business and specific needs and the contribution that the selected candidates will bring to the Board; and

the  Nomination  Committee  will  take  into  consideration  of  the  Board  Diversity  Policy  in  identifying  and 
nominating suitably qualified candidates to become members of the Board.

e.  Compliance Committee

The  Compliance  Committee  was  established  in  2004  and  currently  comprises  of  Ms.  Lammy  LEE  (chairperson 
of  the  Compliance  Committee),  Mr.  TUNG  Lieh  Sing  Alan,  Mr.  MOK  Yun  Lee  Paul  and  Mr.  FUNG  Yee  Chung 
Vincent.  The  Board  has  delegated  the  responsibility  for  monitoring  the  corporate  governance  compliance  to  the 
Compliance Committee.

The primary duties of the Compliance Committee include to:

– 

review, monitor and provide administrative support on the compliance control of the Group and compliance 
of the following corporate governance functions of the Company:

(a)  on  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  corporate  governance  and  make  recommendations  to  the 

Board;

(b)  on  the  training  and  continuous  professional  development  of  Directors  and  senior  management  of  the 

Group;

(c)  on the Company’s policies and practices on compliance with legal and regulatory requirements;

(d)  on the development of the code of conduct and compliance manuals (if any) applicable to employees and 

Directors;

(e)  on the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and the SEHK Code;

(f) 

to report the above items (a) to (e) to the Board regularly; and

– 

– 

(g) 

to  prepare  (i)  the  Corporate  Governance  Report  covering  all  mandatory  disclosure  requirements  as  set 
out in the Listing Rules; and/or (ii) information required to be disclosed by the Compliance Committee 
in  the  Company’s  results  announcements,  the  annual  reports,  the  interim  reports  and  any  other 
documents, pursuant to the Listing Rules;

review  and  report  to  the  Board  regularly  the  shareholders’  communication  policy  to  ensure  its  effectiveness; 
and to

ensure the Company is in compliance with the Listing Rules including disclosure and compliance obligations 
for  matters  including  notifiable  transactions,  connected  transactions,  continuing  connected  transactions, 
advance  to  an  entity,  financial  assistance  and  guarantees  to  affiliated  companies  of  the  Company,  loan 
agreements  with  covenants  relating  to  specific  performance  of  the  controlling  shareholder  of  the  Company, 
breach of a loan agreement by the Company, disclosure of financial information pursuant to Appendix 16 to 
the Listing Rules, and general obligations of disclosure under Rule 13.09 of the Listing Rules.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

63

Corporate Governance ReportThe Compliance Committee held two meetings and passed resolutions by way of written resolution during the year 
ended 31st December 2014. The following is a summary of work performed by the Compliance Committee during 
2014, including:

(i) 

reviewed  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  corporate  governance  and  made  recommendations  to  the 
Board;

(ii)  reviewed and reported to the Board on the amendments to the Listing Rules;

(iii)  reviewed and monitored the training and continuous professional development of Directors of the Company;

(iv)  reviewed  and  monitored  the  Company’s  policies  and  practices  on  compliance  with  legal  and  regulatory 

requirements, particularly on legal, financial and accounting, internal control and audit;

(v)  reviewed  and  monitored  the  code  of  conduct  and  compliance  manuals  (if  any)  applicable  to  employees  and 

Directors of the Company;

(vi)  reviewed the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and the SEHK Code and the disclosure requirements 

in the Corporate Governance Report;

(vii)  reviewed and reported to the Board on the effectiveness of the shareholders’ communication policy;

(viii) reviewed  and  recommended  to  the  Board  on  the  connected  transaction  in  relation  to  the  renewal  of  the 

consultancy contract of Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah; and

(ix)  reviewed and reported to the Board on the continuing connected transactions and the significant contracts of 

the Group.

f.  finance Committee

The  Finance  Committee  was  established  in  1993.  With  effect  from  9th  March  2015,  the  Finance  Committee 
comprises of Professor Roger KING and Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah, with Ms. Lammy LEE as the secretary of the 
Finance Committee.

The primary duties of the Finance Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

assist in the financial requirements of the Group including financing, refinancing, leasing, purchase and sale 
of vessels, properties and equipment and the financing of the business operations of the Group;

report to the Board on its decisions, and any matter in respect of which it considers that action is needed, and 
its recommendation as to the steps to be taken; and to

discuss  and  review  the  disclosure  obligations  of  the  Company  on  financial,  accounting  or  related  issues 
on  compliance  with  the  Listing  Rules  and  refer  transactions  with  their  recommendations  to  the  Executive 
Committee of the Company for its endorsement and/or approval.

64 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Corporate Governance Reportg.  Share Committee

The Share Committee was established in 1992. With effect from 9th March 2015, the Share Committee comprises 
of  Professor  Roger  KING  and  Mr.  CHOW  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  with  Ms.  Lammy  LEE  as  the  secretary  of  the  Share 
Committee.

The primary duties of the Share Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

deal  with  and  grant  approval  on  the  removal  of  the  ordinary  shares  of  the  Company  from  the  Principal 
Register in Bermuda to the Branch Register in Hong Kong or vice versa;

deal  with  share  transactions  including,  but  not  limited  to  share  repurchases,  issue  of  bonus  shares,  scrip 
dividend schemes, top up placings, share subscriptions and placement of the Company’s shares;

give  authorisation  to  the  Company’s  Principal  Registrar  and  Branch  Registrar  to  issue  share  certificates  to 
shareholders who have reported loss of share certificates and in connection with the above share transactions; 
and to

discuss and review the disclosure obligations of the Company on share transactions and compliance with the 
Listing Rules.

h. 

inside information Committee

The  Inside  Information  Committee  was  established  in  2013  and  currently  comprises  of  Mr.  TUNG  Chee  Chen 
(chairman  of  the  Inside  Information  Committee),  Mr.  TUNG  Lieh  Cheung  Andrew,  Mr.  TUNG  Lieh  Sing  Alan 
and Ms. Lammy LEE.

The primary duties of the Inside Information Committee include to:

– 

– 

– 

– 

ensure proper systems and control are in place to collect, review and verify potential inside information;

identify, assess and escalate potential inside information to the attention of the Board; report to the Board on 
the  recommendation  of  the  Inside  Information  Committee,  and  any  matter  in  respect  of  which  it  considers 
that  action  is  needed,  and  its  recommendation  as  to  the  actions  to  be  taken  and  what  information  to  be 
disclosed;

vet and clear announcements or other public disclosures; and to

supervise the Company’s compliance with continuing disclosure obligations.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

65

Corporate Governance Report9.  attendance records of Board Meetings, Board Committees Meetings and General Meetings

The attendance records of each Director and each member of the eight Board Committees at the relevant meetings held 
in year 2014 are as follows:

Meetings attended/Held in 2014

executive 
Committee

audit 
Committee

remuneration 
Committee

Nomination 
Committee

Compliance 
Committee

finance 
Committee

Share 
Committee

Board

inside 
information 
Committee

No. of meetings held during the year

executive Directors
Mr. TUNG Chee Chen

(Chairman, President and

  Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan

(Acting Chief Financial Officer)

Non-executive Director
Professor Roger KING

independent Non-executive Directors
Mr. Simon MURRAY
Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest
Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah*
Professor WONG Yue Chim Richard
Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward

others
Ms. Lammy LEE (Company Secretary)
Mr. MOK Yun Lee Paul

(Group Financial Controller)
Mr. FUNG Yee Chung Vincent

(Chief Auditor)

6

6/6

6/6
6/6

5/6

4/6
6/6
6/6
5/6
5/6

–
–

–

11

11/11

11/11
11/11

–

–
–
–
–
–

–
–

–

2

–

–
–

–

2/2
2/2
–
2/2
2/2

–
–

–

3

3/3

–
–

–

–
3/3
–
3/3
–

–
–

–

2

2/2

–
–

–

–
2/2
–
2/2
–

–
–

–

2

–

–
2/2

–

–
–
–
–
–

2/2
2/2

2/2

0

–

–
–

0

–
0
0
–
–

–
–

–

0

–

–
–

–

–
0
0
–
–

–
–

–

0

0

0
0

–

–
–
–
–
–

–
–

–

2013
aGM

1

1/1

1/1
1/1

0/1

0/1
1/1
1/1
1/1
1/1

–
–

–

Average attendance rate

90.74%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

N/A

N/A

N/A

77.78%

* 

re-designated from a Non-Executive Director to an Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 2nd January 2015.

10.  Securities transactions by Directors

The  Company  has  adopted  its  own  code  of  conduct  regarding  securities  transactions  by  Directors  on  terms  no  less 
exacting than the required standard set out in the Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers 
(the “Model Code”) contained in Appendix 10 to the Listing Rules.

All  Directors  have  confirmed,  following  specific  enquiry  by  the  Company,  that  they  have  fully  complied  with  the 
required  standards  set  out  in  both  the  Company’s  own  code  and  the  Model  Code  for  the  year  ended  31st  December 
2014.

66 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
 
11.  Share interests of Directors and Senior Management

a.  Directors

Directors’ interests in the shares of the Company are set out on pages 74 and 75 of this annual report.

b.  Senior Management

As at 31st December 2014, the number of shares of the Company held by the senior management of the Company 
are as follows:

Name

Mr. Michael KWOK
Mr. Erxin YAO
Mr. Stephen NG
Mr. Steve SIU
Ms. Lammy LEE

Number of shares held

–
5,000
–
–
–

12.  emoluments of Directors and Senior Management#

a.  emoluments of Directors

The emoluments of the Directors of the Company for the year ended 31st December 2014 are set out on page 114 
of this annual report.

b.  emoluments of Senior Management

The  emoluments  of  the  senior  management  of  the  Company  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2014  are  set  out 
below:

emolument bands (US$)

320,501 – 384,600
384,601 – 448,700

Total

Number of individuals 2014

2
3

5

# 

biographical details of senior management are set out on page 48 of this annual report.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

67

Corporate Governance ReportB.  aCCoUNtaBilitY aND aUDit

1.  external auditor

PricewaterhouseCoopers  was  re-appointed  as  the  Company’s  external  auditor  by  shareholders  at  the  2013  AGM  until 
the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.

The Company has established a policy on appointment of external auditor in providing non-audit services, setting out 
the principles by which an external auditor may be appointed to provide non-audit services, with a view to ensuring the 
independence of the external auditor.

The fee in respect of audit and non-audit services provided by the external auditors to the Company for the year ended 
31st December 2014 is set out on page 116 note 11 to the consolidated accounts of this annual report.

2.  Directors’ and auditor’s acknowledgement

All Directors acknowledge their responsibility for preparing the accounts for the year ended 31st December 2014.

PricewaterhouseCoopers,  the  auditor  of  the  Company,  acknowledges  the  reporting  responsibilities  in  the  auditor’s 
report on the financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2014.

3.  internal Controls

The  Board  is  responsible  for  maintaining  sound  and  effective  internal  control  systems  for  the  Group,  and  through  the 
Audit Committee, conducts reviews of the effectiveness of such systems at least annually, covering all material controls 
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management functions. The process used in reviewing 
the  effectiveness  of  these  internal  control  systems  includes  discussion  with  management  on  risk  areas  identified  by 
management of the Company and principal division and review of significant issues arising from internal and external 
audits. The Company’s internal control systems comprise a well established organisational structure and comprehensive 
policies  and  standards.  Procedures  have  been  designed  to  safeguard  assets  against  unauthorised  use  or  disposition, 
to  maintain  proper  accounting  records,  for  assurance  of  the  reliability  of  financial  information  for  internal  use  or 
publication,  and  to  ensure  compliance  with  applicable  laws  and  regulations.  The  purpose  of  the  Company’s  internal 
control is to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss and to manage rather 
than eliminate risks of failure in operational systems and achievement of the Company’s objectives.

The Board has established the following measures to provide effective internal controls:

– 

– 

– 

– 

a  distinct  organisational  structure  for  the  principal  division  with  defined  authority  responsibilities  and  control/
measures;

an  annual  budget  for  the  principal  division  allocating  resources  in  accordance  with  identified  and  prioritised 
business opportunities. The annual budget for the principal division is approved by the Board on an annual basis;

a  comprehensive  management  accounting  system  for  the  principal  division  to  provide  financial  and  operational 
performance  indicators  to  the  relevant  management,  and  financial  information  for  reporting  and  disclosure 
purposes. Actual operational results are measured against budget each month. Detailed forecasts for the year and 
long-term forecasts of profit and loss, cash flow and balance sheets are regularly reviewed and updated. Variances 
to budget are analysed and explained and appropriate action taken, if necessary;

systems and procedures are in place to identify, measure, manage and control risks including business, compliance, 
operational,  financial  and  information  services  risks  that  may  have  an  impact  on  the  Group  and  the  principal 
division.  Exposure  to  these  risks  is  monitored  by  the  Executive  Committee  and  the  management  of  the  principal 
division;

68 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Corporate Governance Report– 

– 

clearly defined procedures are in place for the control of capital and major expenditure commitments, off-balance 
sheet financial instruments and the supervision, control and review of the investment portfolio; and

the  Internal  Audit  Department  performs  independent  reviews  of  the  risks  and  controls  identified  to  provide 
reasonable  assurance  to  management  of  the  Company  and  principal  division  and  the  Audit  Committee  that 
controls have been set in place and adequately addressed.

The  internal  audit  function,  which  is  centrally  controlled,  monitors  compliance  with  policies  and  standards  as  well  as 
the  effectiveness  of  internal  control  structures  across  the  Company  and  the  Group.  To  preserve  the  independence  of 
the internal audit function, the Head of Internal Audit reports functionally to the Audit Committee whose chairman is 
an Independent Non-Executive Director who has direct access to the Board. Using a risk-based approach, the Internal 
Audit  Department  plans  its  internal  audit  schedules  annually  in  consultation  with,  but  independent  of,  management 
of  the  Company  and  the  principal  division.  The  Internal  Audit  Department  has  unrestricted  access  to  information 
that  allows  it  to  review  all  aspects  of  the  Group’s  risk  management,  control  and  governance  processes.  Independent 
reviews of different financial, business and functional operations and activities are conducted with audit resources being 
focused on high risk areas. Ad hoc reviews are also conducted on areas of concern identified by the Audit Committee 
and  management  of  the  Company  and  the  principal  division.  The  management  of  the  Company  and  the  principal 
division including the affected subsidiary are notified of the deficiencies noted for rectification, and the Internal Audit 
Department follows up with the implementation of audit recommendations.

The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board assesses the effectiveness of the internal control system including detecting 
fraud  and  other  irregularities  by  reviewing  the  Internal  Audit  Department’s  work  and  findings.  On  a  yearly  basis,  the 
Internal Audit Department summarises the major audit findings and other relevant information that have come to the 
Internal Audit Department’s attention during the course of the audits and reports to the Audit Committee.

According to the 2014 Internal Audit report, the Group’s internal control system is functioning effectively, there was no 
significant weakness found in the course of the audits carried out during the year, and there is no change in the nature 
and  extent  of  significant  risks  as  well  as  the  scope  and  quality  of  management’s  ongoing  monitoring  of  the  risks  and 
the  internal  control  system.  The  Audit  Committee  has  concluded  that  the  Group  has  maintained  sound  and  effective 
internal  controls  to  safeguard  the  Group’s  assets,  and  there  is  an  ongoing  process  in  place  for  identifying,  evaluating 
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The Board, therefore, is of the view that there are no significant 
frauds,  irregularities,  internal  control  deficiencies  or  suspected  infringement  of  laws,  rules  and  regulations  that  cause 
the Board to believe that the systems of internal control are ineffective or inadequate, and there are no significant areas 
of concern which may affect shareholders. The Board is satisfied that the Company and the Group have fully complied 
with the code provisions on internal control as set forth in the SEHK Code for the year ended 31st December 2014.

To  ensure  on-going  compliance  with  the  SEHK  Code,  the  Audit  Committee  reviewed  the  adequacy  of  staffing  of  the 
accounting  and  financial  reporting  function  on  behalf  of  the  Board  and  was  satisfied  with  the  adequacy  of  resources, 
staff  qualifications  and  experience,  training  programmes  and  budget  of  the  Company’s  accounting  and  financial 
reporting function.

The  Company  has  implemented  the  following  procedures  and  internal  controls  for  the  handling  and  dissemination  of 
inside information:

a) 

it monitors any inside information and makes appropriate announcement as required by the Listing Rules;

b) 

it conducts its affairs by reference to the “Guidelines on Disclosure of Inside Information” issued by the Securities 
and Futures Commission;

c) 

it has established procedures for handling external affairs about the Group; and

d) 

it has established guidelines to be followed by senior management and employees in dealing with confidential and 
inside information.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

69

Corporate Governance ReportC.  CoMMUNiCatioN WitH SHareHolDerS

The  Company  attaches  great  importance  to  communications  with  shareholders.  Extensive  information  on  the  Group’s 
activities,  business  strategies  and  developments  is  provided  in  the  Company’s  annual  reports  and  interim  reports. 
Shareholders  of  the  Company  are  encouraged  to  attend  the  annual  general  meetings  of  the  Company  which  offer  a 
valuable  forum  for  dialogue  and  interaction  with  management.  The  Chairman  of  the  Board  and  the  chairpersons  of  the 
Audit  Committee,  the  Remuneration  Committee,  the  Nomination  Committee  and  other  Board  committees,  or  in  their 
absence,  another  member  of  the  relevant  committee,  are  available  at  the  annual  general  meetings  to  answer  questions  from 
shareholders on the business of the Group. A separate resolution is proposed by the Chairman in respect of each issue at the 
general meetings.

The  Company  has  also  established  a  shareholders’  communication  policy  to  ensure  shareholders  are  provided  with  ready, 
equal and timely access to balanced and understandable information about the Company. The policy is regularly reviewed to 
ensure its effectiveness and is available on written request to the Company Secretary.

The most recent shareholders’ meeting of the Company was the 2013 AGM held at Dynasty Room, 7th Floor, The Dynasty 
Club,  South  West  Tower,  Convention  Plaza,  1  Harbour  Road,  Wanchai,  Hong  Kong  on  25th  April  2014,  at  which  the 
following ordinary resolutions were passed with the voting results as follows:

ordinary resolutions

1.

To consider and adopt the audited Financial Statements and
the Reports of the Directors and the Auditor
for the year ended 31st December 2013.

2.

To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31st December 2013.

3(a). To re-elect Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew as Director.

3(b). To re-elect Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah as Director.

3(c). To re-elect Mr. Simon MURRAY as Director.

4.

5.

To authorise the Board of Directors to fix the Directors’ remuneration.

To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers as Auditor and
to authorise the Board of Directors to fix their remuneration.

6(a). To grant a general mandate to the Directors to allot, issue and

deal with the Company’s shares.

6(b). To grant a general mandate to the Directors to repurchase

the Company’s shares.

6(c). To extend the general mandate to issue shares to cover the shares
repurchased by the Company under Resolution No. 6(b).

Number of Votes (%)

for

against

522,095,479
(99.999713%)

520,834,368
(99.758452%)

500,228,624
(95.812631%)

499,570,624
(95.685683%)

449,738,331
(86.300102%)

518,983,479
(99.977654%)

500,653,297
(95.916018%)

449,389,923 
(86.074115%)

521,965,479 
(99.999713%)

450,115,923 
(86.213417%)

1,500
(0.000287%)

1,261,111
(0.241548%)

21,861,855 
(4.187369%)

22,524,855
(4.314317%)

71,394,690
(13.699898%)

116,000
(0.022346%)

21,317,182
(4.083982%)

72,706,556
(13.925885%)

1,500
(0.000287%)

71,979,056
(13.786583%)

Since  the  publication  of  the  Company’s  2010  interim  report,  the  Company  has  offered  to  the  shareholders  of  the  Company 
the  following  options  to  choose  the  language  and  means  of  receipt  of  the  corporate  communications  of  the  Company  in 
support of environment protection and for the purpose of saving printing and mailing costs:

(1) 

to  read  the  corporate  communication  published  on  the  Company’s  website  at  http://www.ooilgroup.com  in  place  of 
receiving  printed  copies,  and  receive  an  e-mail  notification  or  a  printed  notification  letter  (as  the  case  may  be)  of  the 
publication of the corporate communication on website; or

(2) 

to  receive  either  the  printed  English  version,  the  printed  Chinese  version  or  both  the  printed  English  and  Chinese 
versions of the Company’s corporate communication.

70 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Corporate Governance ReportD.  SHareHolDerS’ riGHtS

1.  Convening a special general meeting

Pursuant to the Bermuda Companies Act and the Company’s Bye-law, the shareholder(s) of the Company holding not 
less than one-tenth of the paid up capital of the Company having the right to vote at general meetings of the Company 
shall have the right, by written requisition sent to the Company’s registered office at Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, 
Hamilton  HM11,  Bermuda  and  to  the  Company’s  principal  office  at  33rd  Floor,  Harbour  Centre,  25  Harbour  Road, 
Wanchai, Hong Kong, for the attention of the Company Secretary of the Company, to require a special general meeting 
(the “SGM”) to be called by the Board for the transaction of any business specified in such requisition.

The written requisition must state the purposes of the general meeting, signed by the shareholder(s) concerned and may 
consist of several documents in like form, each signed by one or more of those shareholders.

Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  Company’s  branch  share  registrar  (the  “Registrar”)  that  the  shareholder(s) 
submitting the requisition is/are qualified to attend and vote at any general meeting, the Company will convene a SGM 
by serving sufficient notice in accordance with the statutory requirements to all the registered shareholders.

2.  putting forward proposals at general meetings

The shareholder(s) of the Company holding (i) not less than one-twentieth of the total voting rights of all shareholders 
having the right to vote at the general meeting of the Company; or (ii) not less than 100 shareholders of the Company, 
can submit:

(i) 

a written request stating the resolution intended to be moved at an annual general meeting; or

(ii)  a statement of not more than 1,000 words with respect to the matter referred to in any proposed resolution or the 

business to be dealt with at a particular general meeting.

The  written  request/statement  must  be  signed  by  the  shareholder(s)  concerned  and  deposited  at  the  Company’s 
registered office at Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda and to the Company’s principal office 
at 33rd Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong, for the attention of the Company Secretary of 
the Company, not less than six weeks before the annual general meeting in the case of a requisition requiring notice of a 
resolution and not less than one week before the general meeting in the case of any other requisition.

Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  Registrar  of  the  Company  that  the  shareholder(s)  making  the  proposal  is/are 
qualified to attend and vote at the general meeting, the Company will:

(i) 

include the resolution in the agenda for the annual general meeting; or

(ii)  circulate the statement for the general meeting,

provided that the shareholder(s) concerned have deposited a sum of money sufficient to meet the Company’s expenses 
in serving the notice of the resolution and/or circulating the statement to all the registered shareholders.

3.  putting enquiries to the Board

Shareholders  who  have  enquiries  to  put  to  the  Board  of  the  Company  may  write  to  the  Company  Secretary  of  the 
Company at 33rd Floor, Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

71

Corporate Governance Reporte.  iNVeStor relatioNS

The  Company  continues  to  promote  and  enhance  investor  relations  and  communication  with  its  investors.  The  Company’s 
investor  relations  team  maintains  regular  dialogue  with  institutional  investors,  analysts  and  fund  managers  to  keep  them 
abreast of the Group’s development.

Shareholders, investors and members of the public are able to access up-to-date corporate information and events related to 
the Group on the Company’s website.

1.  Shareholdings information

As at 31st December 2014:

Authorised  share  capital:  US$205,000,000,  comprising  900,000,000  ordinary  shares  of  US$0.1  each,  65,000,000  limited 
voting convertible redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each and 50,000,000 redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each.

Issued and fully-paid up capital: US$62,579,329.7 comprising 625,793,297 ordinary shares of US$0.1 each.

Details of the shareholding of the ordinary shares of the Company by the type of Shareholders as at 31st December 2014 
are as follows:

type of Shareholders

Corporate
Individual

Total

Number of
Shareholders

Shareholders
% of total

25
984

1,009

2.4777%
97.5223%

100.00%

Number
of Shares

619,923,716
5,869,581

625,793,297

Details of the shareholding of the ordinary shares of the Company by range as at 31st December 2014 are as follows:

Size of shareholding

1 – 10,000
10,001 – 100,000
100,001 – 1,000,000
1,000,001 or above

Total

2.  public float

Number of
Shareholders

Shareholders
% of total

939
61
5
4

1,009

93.0624%
6.0456%
0.4955%
0.3965%

100.00%

Based  on  information  that  is  publicly  available  to  the  Company  and  within  the  knowledge  of  the  Directors,  the 
percentage of its public float exceeds 25% as at 31st December 2014.

3.  financial Calendar

Important dates for the coming financial year are set out on page 49 of this annual report.

4.  Memorandum of association and Bye-laws

There  are  no  changes  to  the  memorandum  of  association  and  bye-laws  of  the  Company  (the  “Constitutional 
Documents”) during the year. The consolidated version of the Constitutional Documents is available on the Company’s 
website and the HKExnews website.

72 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Corporate Governance Report 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors of the Company presents this report together with the audited accounts for the year ended 31st December 
2014.

priNCipal aCtiVitieS

The principal activity of the Company is investment holding and the activities of its principal subsidiaries, associated companies 
and joint ventures are set out on pages 145 to 154 of this annual report.

GroUp reSUltS

The consolidated results of the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Group”) are set out on page 82 of this 
annual report.

DiViDeNDS

An interim dividend of US7.5 cents (HK$0.585) per ordinary share was paid on 16th October 2014.

The  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Company  has  recommended  the  payment  of  a  final  dividend  of  US3.4  cents  (HK$0.27  at  the 
exchange rate of US$1: HK$7.8) per ordinary share for the year ended 31st December 2014 to be paid on 10th June 2015 to the 
shareholders of the Company whose names appear on the register of members of the Company on 12th May 2015. Shareholders 
should  complete  the  dividend  election  form  (if  applicable)  and  return  it  to  the  Company’s  Hong  Kong  branch  share  registrar, 
Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited, not later than 4:30 p.m. on 2nd June 2015.

DireCtorS

The Directors of the Company during the year and up to the date of this report were:

executive Directors

Mr. TUNG Chee Chen (Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan (Acting Chief Financial Officer)

Non-executive Director

Professor Roger KING

independent Non-executive Directors

Mr. Simon MURRAY
Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest
Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah*
Professor WONG Yue Chim Richard
Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward

* 

re-designated from a Non-Executive Director to an Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 2nd January 2015.

In  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Company’s  Bye-laws,  Professor  Roger  King,  Mr.  Chang  Tsann  Rong  Ernest  and  Mr. 
Cheng Wai Sun Edward will retire by rotation at the annual general meeting of the Company to be held on 30th April 2015 (the 
“Annual General Meeting”) and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

73

Report of the DirectorsNone  of  the  Directors  has  a  service  contract  with  the  Company  or  any  of  its  subsidiaries  which  is  not  determinable  by  the 
employing company within one year without payment of compensation, other than statutory compensation.

The  Company  has  received  from  each  Independent  Non-Executive  Director  confirmation  of  his  independence  pursuant  to  Rule 
3.13 of the Listing Rules. With effect from 2nd January 2015, Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah was re-designated from a Non-Executive 
Director to an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company (the “Re-designation”) as recommended by the Nomination 
Committee of the Company and approved by the Board. During the two years immediately prior to the Re-designation, Mr. Chow 
had had no involvement in an executive or management capacity, and had not participated in the daily operation or management 
of the Company. Mr. Chow had confirmed that he had satisfied all factors set out in Rule 3.13 of The Rules Governing the Listing 
of  Securities  on  The  Stock  Exchange  of  Hong  Kong  Limited  (the  “Listing  Rules”).  The  Board  determined  that  Mr.  Chow  was 
independent. The Board considers all of the Independent Non-Executive Directors are independent.

DireCtorS’ riGHtS to aCQUire SHareS or DeBeNtUreS

Neither  the  Company  nor  any  of  its  subsidiaries  was  a  party  to  any  arrangement  to  enable  the  Directors  of  the  Company  to 
acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate at any time 
during the year or at the end of the year.

DireCtorS’ aND CHief eXeCUtiVe’S iNtereSt

1.  Significant Contracts

The  Group  shares  the  rental  of  office  space  at  Harbour  Centre,  Hong  Kong  on  an  actual  cost  reimbursement  basis  with 
Island  Navigation  Corporation  International  Limited  (“INCIL”),  which  is  owned  by  a  Tung  family  trust.  The  total  amount 
of  rental  on  an  actual  cost  reimbursement  basis  paid  by  INCIL  to  the  Group  for  the  year  ended  31st  December  2014  was 
approximately US$1,446,000.

Yuensung Investment Company Limited (“Yuensung”), a company controlled by Mr. C U Tung, the uncle of Mr. Tung Chee 
Chen,  also  shares  the  rental  of  an  office  at  Harbour  Centre,  Hong  Kong  with  our  Group.  The  total  amount  of  rental  on  an 
actual cost reimbursement basis paid by Yuensung to the Group for the year ended 31st December 2014 was approximately 
US$80,000.

Except for the above (other than contracts amongst Group companies), no other contracts or arrangements of significance in 
relation to the Group’s business to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party, and in which a Director of the 
Company had a material interest, subsisted at the year end or at any time during the year.

2.  Shares

As at 31st December 2014, the issued share capital of the Company (the “Issued Capital”) consisted of 625,793,297 ordinary 
shares  (the  “Shares”).  The  interests  and  short  positions  of  the  Directors  and  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Company  in  the 
Shares, the underlying Shares and the debentures of the Company or any of its associated corporations (within the meaning 
of  Part  XV  of  the  Securities  and  Futures  Ordinance  (“SFO”))  as  recorded  in  the  register  kept  by  the  Company  pursuant  to 
Section  352  of  the  SFO  or  otherwise  notified  to  the  Company  and  The  Stock  Exchange  of  Hong  Kong  Limited  (the  “Stock 
Exchange”)  pursuant  to  the  Model  Code  for  Securities  Transactions  by  Directors  of  Listed  Issuers  (the  “Model  Code”) 
contained in the Listing Rules, were as follows:–

Name

Tung Chee Chen

Chang Tsann Rong Ernest
Chow Philip Yiu Wah

Simon Murray
Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard

74 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Direct
interests

–

612,731
133,100

10,000
–

other
interests

429,950,088
(Notes 1 & 2)
–
20,000
(Note 3)
–
500
(Note 4)

total number
of Shares
(long position)

429,950,088

612,731
153,100

10,000
500

percentage

68.70%

0.098%
0.024%

0.002%
0.00008%

Report of the Directors 
 
 
Notes:

1.  Mr. Tung Chee Chen has an interest in a trust which, through Artson Global Limited (“Artson”) as trustee, holds shares of Thelma Holdings 

Limited  (“Thelma”),  which  has  an  indirect  interest  in  429,950,088  Shares,  in  which  Fortune  Crest  Inc.  (“Fortune  Crest”)  and  Gala  Way 

Company  Inc.  (“Gala  Way”),  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  of  Thelma,  have  direct  interests  in  350,722,656  Shares  and  79,227,432  Shares 

respectively. The voting rights in respect of such 429,950,088 Shares are held by Mr. Tung Chee Chen through Tung Holdings (Trustee) Inc. 

(“THTI”).

2. 

Fortune Crest and Gala Way together are referred to as the controlling shareholders.

3. 

20,000 Shares are held by the spouse of Mr. Chow Philip Yiu Wah.

4. 

500 Shares are held by the spouse of Professor Wong Yue Chim Richard.

Save  as  disclosed  above,  as  at  31st  December  2014,  none  of  the  Directors  or  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Company  had  any 
interest  or  short  position  in  the  Shares,  the  underlying  Shares  and  the  debentures  of  the  Company  or  any  of  its  associated 
corporation (within the meaning of the SFO) which were required to be: (a) notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange 
pursuant to Divisions 7 and 8 of Part XV of the SFO (including interests and short positions which they are taken or deemed 
to have under such provisions of the SFO); or (b) entered in the register kept by the Company pursuant to Section 352 of the 
SFO; or (c) notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange pursuant to the Model Code.

Save as disclosed in below section “Substantial Shareholders’ Share Interest”, as at 31st December 2014, none of the Directors 
or the Chief Executive of the Company is a director or an employee of a company which had an interest or short position in 
the Shares and the underlying Shares which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of Divisions 2 
and 3 of Part XV of the SFO.

3.  Directors’ interests in Competing Business

As  at  31st  December  2014,  none  of  the  Directors  and  their  respective  associates  (as  defined  in  the  Listing  Rules)  had  any 
interest in a business, which competes or may compete with the business of the Group.

SUBStaNtial SHareHolDerS’ SHare iNtereSt

As at 31st December 2014, the following persons (other than the Directors or the Chief Executive of the Company) had an interest 
or short position in the Shares and the underlying Shares which would fall to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of 
Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO as recorded in the register required to be kept by the Company under Section 336 of the 
SFO:

Name

Artson Global Limited *
Hanberry Global Limited #
Thelma Holdings Limited *
Tung Chee Hwa
Archmore Investment Limited *
Edgemont Holdings Limited *
Javier Global Limited *
Bartlock Assets Ltd. #
Flowell Development Inc.
Izone Capital Limited *
Jeference Capital Inc. *
Tung Holdings (Trustee) Inc. *
Fortune Crest Inc. *
Gala Way Company Inc. *

Nature of interest

Trustee
Trustee
Indirect
Indirect
Beneficiary of a trust
Indirect
Indirect
Beneficiary of a trust
Beneficiary of a trust
Beneficiary of a trust
Beneficiary of a trust
Voting
Direct
Direct

Number of Shares
interested
(long position)

429,950,088 (Note 1)
429,950,088 (Note 2)
429,950,088 (Note 3)
429,975,319 (Note 4)
429,950,088 (Note 5)
429,950,088 (Note 6)
429,950,088 (Note 7)
429,950,088 (Note 8)
429,950,088 (Note 9)
429,950,088 (Note 10)
429,950,088 (Note 11)
429,950,088 (Note 12)
350,722,656 (Note 13)
79,227,432 (Note 14)

percentage

68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
68.70%
56.04%
12.66%

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

75

Report of the Directors 
 
 
Notes:

1. 

Artson, a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, holds 56.36% of the shares of Thelma and, accordingly, has an indirect interest 

in the same Shares in which Thelma has an interest.

2. 

Hanberry  Global  Limited  (“Hanberry”),  a  company  which  is  wholly  owned  by  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa  (brother  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen,  brother-in-

law of Professor Roger King, and father of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew and Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan), holds 43.64% of the shares of Thelma and, 

accordingly, has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Thelma has an interest.

3. 

Thelma,  a  company  which  is  owned  collectively  by  Artson  and  Hanberry,  has  an  indirect  interest  in  the  same  Shares  in  which  Fortune  Crest  and 

Gala Way, wholly-owned subsidiaries of Thelma, have an interest.

4.  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa  has  an  interest  in  a  trust  which,  through  Hanberry  as  trustee,  holds  shares  of  Thelma,  which  has  an  indirect  interest  in 

429,950,088  Shares.  Mrs.  Tung  Chiu  Hung  Ping  Betty  (spouse  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Hwa,  sister-in-law  of  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen  and  Professor  Roger 

King, and mother of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew and Mr. Tung Lieh Sing Alan) owns 25,231 Shares.

5. 

Archmore Investment Limited (“Archmore”), a company which is wholly owned by Edgemont Holdings Limited (“Edgemont”), has an interest in a 

trust which, through Artson as trustee, holds shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

6. 

Edgemont has an indirect interest in the same Shares in which Archmore, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Edgemont, has an interest.

7. 

Javier  Global  Limited  (“Javier”),  a  company  which  is  wholly  owned  by  Mr.  Tung  Chee  Chen,  has  an  indirect  interest  in  the  same  Shares  in  which 

Edgemont, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Javier, has an interest.

8. 

Bartlock Assets Ltd., a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Hwa, has an interest in a trust which, through Hanberry as trustee, holds 

shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

9. 

Flowell Development Inc., a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, has an interest in a trust which, through Artson as trustee, 

holds shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

10. 

Izone Capital Limited, a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, has an interest in a trust which, through Artson as trustee, holds 

shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

11. 

Jeference Capital Inc., a company which is wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen, has an interest in a trust which, through Artson as trustee, holds 

shares of Thelma, which has an indirect interest in 429,950,088 Shares.

12.  THTI is a company wholly owned by Mr. Tung Chee Chen.

13.  Fortune Crest has a direct interest in 350,722,656 Shares.

14.  Gala Way has a direct interest in 79,227,432 Shares.

* 

For those companies marked with “*”, Mr. Tung Chee Chen is either a director of these companies or a director of a company which is a corporate 

director of these companies.

# 

For those companies marked with “#”, Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew is a director of these companies.

Save as disclosed herein, as at 31st December 2014, the Company has not been notified by any person (other than the Directors 
or the Chief Executive of the Company) who had an interest or short position in the Shares or the underlying Shares which were 
required to be disclosed to the Company under the provisions of Divisions 2 and 3 of Part XV of the SFO, or which were recorded 
in the register required to be kept by the Company under Section 336 of the SFO.

76 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Report of the DirectorsCoNNeCteD traNSaCtioNS

During  the  year  ended  31st  December  2014,  the  Group  had  the  following  continuing  connected  transactions  (the  “Continuing 
Connected  Transactions”)  constituted  by  the  following  agreements  entered  into  by  OOCL  (Taiwan)  Co.,  Ltd.  (“OTWL”),  the 
Group’s Taiwanese subsidiary and acting as the general agent for the carrier of the Group in Taiwan:

a)  CMt Master agreement

Pursuant  to  a  master  agreement  dated  29th  June  2005,  as  supplemented  by  the  supplemental  agreements  dated  10th 
December  2007,  15th  December  2010  and  4th  December  2013,  all  entered  into  between  OTWL  and  Chinese  Maritime 
Transport  Ltd.  (“CMT”),  CMT  agreed  to  provide  and  to  procure  members  of  the  CMT  group  to  provide  various  services 
to  the  Group  including,  inter  alia,  (i)  trucking  service;  (ii)  leasing  of  equipment  (including  chassis  and  tractors);  (iii) 
maintenance  and  repair  services  for  generator  sets  and  chassis;  (iv)  freight  station  depot  and  container  storage  facilities; 
(v)  container  yard  and  gate  services;  and  (vi)  crew  manning  services,  for  successive  periods  of  three  years  expiring  on  31st 
December 2016 subject to the annual caps of not exceeding US$50,000,000, US$52,500,000 and US$55,000,000 for the years 
2014, 2015 and 2016 respectively.

During the year 2014, US$32,914,000 was paid by OTWL to the CMT group for the aforesaid services.

b)  aii Master agreement

Pursuant to a master agreement dated 29th June 2005, as supplemented by the supplemental agreement dated 10th December 
2007, 15th December 2010 and 4th December 2013, all entered into between OTWL and Associated International Inc. (“AII”), 
AII agreed to provide and to procure members of the AII group to provide various services to the Group including, inter alia, 
(i) provision of office premises; and (ii) freight station depot and container storage facilities, for successive periods of three 
years expiring on 31st December 2016 subject to the annual caps of not exceeding US$2,800,000 for the years 2014, 2015 and 
2016 respectively.

During the year 2014, US$1,280,000 was paid by OTWL to the AII group for the aforesaid services.

Mr. John Peng is the controlling shareholder of CMT and AII, and the brother-in-law of Mr. Tung Chee Chen who is an Executive 
Director, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company; the brother-in-law of Professor Roger King, a Non-
Executive Director of the Company; the uncle of Mr. Tung Lieh Cheung Andrew, an Executive Director of the Company, and Mr. 
Tung Lieh Sing Alan, an Executive Director and the Acting Chief Financial Officer of the Company; and the brother-in-law of Mr. 
Tung Chee Hwa who has an interest in a trust which has an indirect interest in certain substantial shareholders of the Company. 
Mr. Peng and accordingly CMT and AII are therefore connected persons of the Company as defined in the Listing Rules.

Pursuant  to  Rule  14A.55  of  the  Listing  Rules,  the  Independent  Non-Executive  Directors  of  the  Company,  namely  Mr.  Simon 
Murray,  Mr.  Chang  Tsann  Rong  Ernest,  Mr.  Chow  Philip  Yiu  Wah,  Professor  Wong  Yue  Chim  Richard  and  Mr.  Cheng  Wai  Sun 
Edward, have reviewed the Continuing Connected Transactions and confirmed that the Continuing Connected Transactions have 
been entered into (a) in the ordinary and usual course of business of the Group; (b) on normal commercial terms or better; and (c) 
according to the relevant agreements governing them on terms that are fair and reasonable and in the interests of the shareholders 
of the Company as a whole.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

77

Report of the DirectorsThe  Company’s  auditor  was  engaged  to  report  on  the  Group’s  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  in  accordance  with  Hong 
Kong  Standard  on  Assurance  Engagements  3000  “Assurance  Engagements  Other  Than  Audits  or  Reviews  of  Historical  Financial 
Information”  and  with  reference  to  Practice  Note  740  “Auditor’s  Letter  on  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  under  the  Hong 
Kong  Listing  Rules”  issued  by  the  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified  Public  Accountants.  The  auditor  has  issued  his  unqualified 
letter  containing  the  findings  and  conclusions  in  respect  of  the  Continuing  Connected  Transactions  as  disclosed  above  in 
accordance  with  Rule  14A.56  of  the  Listing  Rules  and  nothing  has  come  to  his  attention  that  causes  him  to  believe  that  the 
disclosed Continuing Connected Transactions:

(i)  have not been approved by the Board of Directors of the Company;

(ii)  were not entered into, in all material respects, in accordance with the relevant agreements governing the transactions; and

(iii)  have exceeded the maximum aggregate annual caps in respect of each of the disclosed Continuing Connected Transactions.

pUrCHaSe, Sale or reDeMptioN of SHareS

During the year ended 31st December 2014, the Company has not redeemed any of its Shares and neither the Company nor any 
of its subsidiaries has purchased or sold any of the Company’s Shares.

pre-eMptiVe  riGHtS

No pre-emptive rights exist under Bermudan law in relation to the issue of new shares by the Company.

reSerVeS

Movements during the year in the reserves of the Group and the Company are set out in note 37 to the consolidated accounts on 
pages 137 and 138 of this annual report.

Corporate GoVerNaNCe

The  Board  and  management  of  the  Company  are  committed  to  maintaining  high  standards  of  corporate  governance  and  the 
Company  considers  that  effective  corporate  governance  makes  an  important  contribution  to  corporate  success  and  to  the 
enhancement of shareholder value.

The  Company  has  adopted  its  own  corporate  governance  code  (the  “CG  Code”),  which  in  addition  to  applying  the  principles 
as  set  out  in  the  Corporate  Governance  Code  and  Corporate  Governance  Report  (the  “SEHK  Code”)  contained  in  Appendix 
14  to  the  Listing  Rules,  also  incorporates  and  conforms  to  local  and  international  best  practices.  The  CG  Code  sets  out  the 
corporate  governance  principles  applied  by  the  Company  and  its  subsidiaries  and  is  constantly  reviewed  to  ensure  transparency, 
accountability  and  independence.  Further  information  on  the  CG  Code  is  set  out  in  the  corporate  governance  report  (the 
“Corporate Governance Report”) on pages 52 to 72 of this annual report.

Throughout the year of 2014, the Company complied with the SEHK Code, except as set out in the Corporate Governance Report 
on page 52.

pUBliC float

Based  on  information  that  is  publicly  available  to  the  Company  and  within  the  knowledge  of  the  Directors  of  the  Company,  as 
at the date of this report, there is sufficient public float of more than 25% of the Company’s issued Shares as required under the 
Listing Rules.

propertY, plaNt aND eQUipMeNt

Particulars of the movements in property, plant and equipment are set out in note 16 to the consolidated accounts on pages 119 to 
121 of this annual report.

78 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Report of the DirectorsDoNatioNS

Donations made by the Group during the year amount to US$322,000.

aNNUal GeNeral MeetiNG

The Annual General Meeting will be held on 30th April 2015.

A  circular  containing,  inter  alia,  (i)  a  notice  convening  the  Annual  General  Meeting;  (ii)  details  of  the  retiring  Directors  to  be 
re-elected  at  the  Annual  General  Meeting;  (iii)  the  general  mandate  to  authorise  the  allotment  of  and  otherwise  dealing  with 
shares  of  all  classes  in  the  capital  of  the  Company  and  securities  convertible  into  shares  and  options,  warrants  or  similar  rights 
to subscribe for shares or such convertible securities and (iv) the general mandate to authorise the repurchase of the Company’s 
securities together with a proxy form will be distributed to the shareholders of the Company on around 23rd March 2015.

CoMpaNY SeCretarY

The Company Secretary of the Company is Ms. Lee Chee Fun Lammy, Barrister.

aUDitor

The Group’s financial accounts have been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers who will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, 
being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.

On behalf of the Board
orient overseas (international) limited
tung Chee Chen
Chairman

Hong Kong, 6th March 2015

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

79

Report of the DirectorsContent
Independent Auditor’s Report
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Balance Sheet
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts
General information
1.
Summary of significant accounting policies
2.
Financial risk management
3.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
4.
Revenue and segment information
5.
Operating costs
6.
Other operating income
7.
Other operating expenses
8.
Employee benefit expense
9.
Directors’ and management’s emoluments
10.
Operating profit
11.
Finance costs
12.
Taxation
13.
Earnings per ordinary share
14.
Dividends
15.
Property, plant and equipment
16.
Investment property
17.
Prepayments of lease premiums
18.
Subsidiaries
19.
Joint ventures
20.
Associated companies
21.
Intangible assets
22.
Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities)
23.
Pension and retirement benefits
24.
Restricted bank balances
25.
Available-for-sale financial assets
26.
Held-to-maturity investments
27.
Other non-current assets
28.
Inventories
29.
Debtors and prepayments
30.
Amount due from an associated company
31.
Amount due from a joint venture
32.
Portfolio investments
33.
Derivative financial instruments
34.
Cash and bank balances
35.
Share capital
36.
Reserves
37.
Borrowings
38.
Creditors and accruals
39.
Amounts due to joint ventures
40.
Commitments
41.
Financial guarantees
42.
Notes to consolidated cash flow statement
43.
Asset held for sale
44.
45.
Approval of accounts
Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures

80 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Page no.
81
82
83
84
86
87
88

89
89
102
108
109
112
113
113
113
114
116
116
117
118
118
119
121
122
122
123
123
124
125
126
130
130
131
132
132
132
134
134
134
135
136
137
137
138
140
141
141
143
143
144
144
145

Index – Financial Informationto the Shareholders of orient overseas (international) limited
(Incorporated in Bermuda with limited liability)

We  have  audited  the  consolidated  accounts  of  Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (the  “Company”)  and  its  subsidiaries 
(together  the  “Group”)  set  out  on  pages  82  to  154,  which  comprise  the  consolidated  and  company  balance  sheets  as  at  31st 
December  2014,  and  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account,  the  consolidated  statement  of  comprehensive  income,  the 
consolidated cash flow statement and the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended, and a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.

Directors’ responsibility for the consolidated accounts

The  Directors  of  the  Company  are  responsible  for  the  preparation  of  consolidated  accounts  that  give  a  true  and  fair  view  in 
accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants and 
the disclosure requirements of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is 
necessary  to  enable  the  preparation  of  consolidated  accounts  that  are  free  from  material  misstatement,  whether  due  to  fraud  or 
error.

auditor’s responsibility

Our  responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these  consolidated  accounts  based  on  our  audit  and  to  report  our  opinion  solely 
to  you,  as  a  body,  in  accordance  with  Section  90  of  the  Companies  Act  1981  of  Bermuda  and  for  no  other  purpose.  We  do  not 
assume responsibility towards or accept liability to any other person for the contents of this report.

We  conducted  our  audit  in  accordance  with  Hong  Kong  Standards  on  Auditing  issued  by  the  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified 
Public Accountants. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated accounts are free from material misstatement.

An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated accounts. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the 
consolidated  accounts,  whether  due  to  fraud  or  error.  In  making  those  risk  assessments,  the  auditor  considers  internal  control 
relevant to the entity’s preparation of consolidated accounts that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that 
are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal 
control.  An  audit  also  includes  evaluating  the  appropriateness  of  accounting  policies  used  and  the  reasonableness  of  accounting 
estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated accounts.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.

opinion

In  our  opinion,  the  consolidated  accounts  give  a  true  and  fair  view  of  the  state  of  affairs  of  the  Company  and  of  the  Group  as 
at  31st  December  2014,  and  of  the  profit  and  cash  flows  of  the  Group  for  the  year  then  ended  in  accordance  with  Hong  Kong 
Financial Reporting Standards and have been properly prepared in accordance with the disclosure requirements of the Hong Kong 
Companies Ordinance.

pricewaterhouseCoopers
Certified Public Accountants

Hong Kong, 6th March 2015

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

81

Independent Auditor’s ReportUS$’000

Revenue

Operating costs

Gross profit

Fair value gain/(loss) from an investment property

Other operating income

Other operating expenses

operating profit

Finance costs

Share of profits of joint ventures

Share of profits of associated companies

profit before taxation

Taxation

Profit for the year

profit/(loss) attributable to:

Equity holders of the Company

Non-controlling interests

earnings per ordinary share (US cents)

Basic and diluted

Dividends

Note

2014

2013

5

6

17

7

8

11

12

20

21

13

14

15

6,521,589

6,231,583

(5,875,797)

(5,772,046)

645,792

9,653

119,380

459,537

(6,923)

63,242

(445,678)

(425,542)

329,147

(54,000)

4,364

15,072

294,583

(24,145)

270,438

270,538

(100)

270,438

43.2

68,266

90,314

(41,019)

4,001

13,703

66,999

(19,866)

47,133

47,036

97

47,133

7.5

11,765

82 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Consolidated Profit and Loss AccountFor the year ended 31st December 2014 
US$’000

profit for the year

other comprehensive income:

Item that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss:

Remeasurement losses on defined benefit schemes

Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:

Available-for-sale financial assets

  – Change in fair value

  – Assets revaluation reserve realised

Currency translation adjustments

  – Foreign subsidiaries

  – Non-controlling interests

  – Associated companies

  – Joint ventures

  – Release of reserve upon disposal of a subsidiary

Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss

Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax

total comprehensive income for the year

total comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to:

Equity holders of the Company

Non-controlling interests

2014

270,438

2013

47,133

(1,988)

(13,166)

(42,287)

–

1,048

(52)

(525)

(30)

(4,027)

(45,873)

(5,841)

(112)

2,292

185

3,530

240

–

294

(47,861)

(12,872)

222,577

34,261

222,729

(152)

222,577

33,979

282

34,261

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

83

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive IncomeFor the year ended 31st December 2014 
 
 
Note

2014

2013

16

17

18

20

21

22

23

34

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

27

33

25

35

44

36

37

5,608,929

180,000

5,320,251

170,000

9,109

9,011

152,499

48,578

3,887

2,888

54,168

139,636

221,035

19,710

9,543

8,674

134,697

42,663

4,072

4,407

24,731

149,667

254,572

22,928

6,449,450

6,146,205

128,652

574,517

–

237

24,792

223,423

13,010

413

150,058

537,282

7,330

–

–

217,986

17,570

1,441

2,165,914

1,912,346

3,130,958

2,844,013

53,047

–

3,184,005

2,844,013

9,633,455

8,990,218

62,579

4,572,173

62,579

4,408,228

4,634,752

4,470,807

–

5,817

4,634,752

4,476,624

US$’000

aSSetS

Non-current assets

Property, plant and equipment

Investment property

Prepayments of lease premiums

Joint ventures

Associated companies

Intangible assets

Deferred taxation assets

Derivative financial instruments

Restricted bank balances

Available-for-sale financial assets

Held-to-maturity investments

Other non-current assets

Current assets

Inventories

Debtors and prepayments

Amount due from an associated company

Amount due from a joint venture

Held-to-maturity investments

Portfolio investments

Tax recoverable

Restricted bank balances

Cash and bank balances

Asset held for sale

total assets

eQUitY

equity holders

Share capital

Reserves

Non-controlling interests

total equity

84 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Consolidated Balance SheetAs at 31st December 2014 
 
 
US$’000

liaBilitieS

Non-current liabilities

Borrowings

Deferred taxation liabilities

Pension and retirement liabilities

Derivative financial instruments

Current liabilities

Creditors and accruals

Amounts due to joint ventures

Borrowings

Derivative financial instruments

Current taxation

total liabilities

total equity and liabilities

Net current assets

total assets less current liabilities

C C tung
alan tung
Directors

Note

2014

2013

38

23

24

34

39

40

38

34

3,595,625

3,265,555

53,655

1,665

2,949

55,557

2,409

4,728

3,653,894

3,328,249

942,704

7,145

388,877

406

5,677

904,624

6,991

268,310

–

5,420

1,344,809

1,185,345

4,998,703

4,513,594

9,633,455

8,990,218

1,839,196

1,658,668

8,288,646

7,804,873

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

85

Consolidated Balance SheetAs at 31st December 2014 
 
 
 
Note

2014

2013

19

19

25

35

36

37

34

19

34

19

169,487

169,487

103

47

2,175,071

2,194,651

344

11,661

337

41,381

2,187,179

2,236,416

2,356,666

2,405,903

62,579

977,990

62,579

957,062

1,040,569

1,019,641

–

2,022

1,053,229

1,133,229

1,053,229

1,135,251

406

1,376

261,086

262,868

–

1,367

249,644

251,011

1,316,097

1,386,262

2,356,666

2,405,903

1,924,311

1,985,405

2,093,798

2,154,892

US$’000

aSSetS

Non-current assets

Subsidiaries

Current assets

Prepayments

Amounts due from subsidiaries

Restricted bank balances

Cash and bank balances

total assets

eQUitY

equity holders

Share capital

Reserves

total equity

liaBilitieS

Non-current liabilities

Derivative financial instrument

Amount due to a subsidiary

Current liabilities

Derivative financial instrument

Accruals

Amounts due to subsidiaries

total liabilities

total equity and liabilities

Net current assets

total assets less current liabilities

C C tung
alan tung
Directors

86 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Balance SheetAs at 31st December 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note

43(a)

US$’000

Cash flows from operating activities
  Cash generated from operations

Interest paid
Interest element of finance lease rental payments

  Hong Kong profits tax refunded/(paid)
  Overseas taxes paid

  Net cash from operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities
  Sale of property, plant and equipment
  Sale of available-for-sale financial assets
  Redemption on maturity of held-to-maturity investments
  Purchase of property, plant and equipment
  Addition of investment property
  Purchase of held-to-maturity investments

Investment in a joint venture
Increase of investment in an associated company

  Disposal of a subsidiary
  Overseas tax paid on disposal of a subsidiary
  Decrease/(increase) in portfolio investments
Increase in amount due from a joint venture
Increase in amounts due to joint ventures
(Increase)/decrease in bank deposits maturing more than three months 

43(b)
43(b)

from the date of placement

Increase in restricted bank balances
Increase in intangible assets

  Decrease/(increase) in other non-current assets

Interest received

  Dividends received from portfolio investments
  Dividends received from available-for-sale financial assets
  Distribution from available-for-sale financial assets
  Dividends received from joint ventures
  Dividends received from associated companies
  Capital contribution from non-controlling interests

  Net cash used in investing activities

Cash flows from financing activities
  Drawdown of loans
  Repayment of loans
  Capital element of finance lease rental payments
  Dividend paid to equity holders of the Company
  Dividends paid to non-controlling interests

  Net cash (used in)/from financing activities

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

43(d)

2014

2013

553,237
(33,572)
(20,218)
645
(21,561)

478,531

177,443
37
8,878
(360,448)
(347)
(2,737)
(51)
(10,296)
6,152
(436)
847
(237)
154

(30,961)
(28,409)
(14,228)
3,218
37,479
803
7,903
3,660
4,048
14,371
–

477,215
(26,728)
(11,860)
(1,357)
(24,092)

413,178

26,722
116
–
(562,183)
(11,923)
–
–
(20,201)
–
–
(22,387)
–
1,043

72,330
(7,682)
(12,174)
(770)
36,668
700
7,906
2,323
3,177
7,324
48

(183,157)

(478,963)

686,453
(477,485)
(225,864)
(58,784)
–

894,779
(339,189)
(319,430)
(44,987)
(291)

(75,680)

190,882

219,694
1,719,902
3,226

1,942,822

125,097
1,597,018
(2,213)

1,719,902

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

87

Consolidated Cash Flow StatementFor the year ended 31st December 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$’000

Share capital

reserves

Sub-total

interests

total

equity holders

Non-

controlling

At 31st December 2012

62,579

4,419,236

4,481,815

Total comprehensive income for the year

Transactions with owners

  2012 final dividend

  Dividends paid to non-controlling interests

  Capital contribution from 

  non-controlling interests

–

–

–

–

33,979

33,979

(44,987)

(44,987)

–

–

–

–

At 31st December 2013

62,579

4,408,228

4,470,807

Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year

Transactions with owners

  2013 final dividend

  2014 interim dividend

  Disposal of a subsidiary company

–

–

–

–

222,729

222,729

(11,795)

(46,989)

–

(11,795)

(46,989)

–

(5,665)

5,778

282

–

(291)

48

5,817

(152)

–

–

4,487,593

34,261

(44,987)

(291)

48

4,476,624

222,577

(11,795)

(46,989)

(5,665)

at 31st December 2014

62,579

4,572,173

4,634,752

–

4,634,752

88 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Consolidated Statement of Changes in EquityFor the year ended 31st December 2014 
 
 
1.  General information

Orient  Overseas  (International)  Limited  (“the  Company”)  is  a  limited  liability  company  incorporated  in  Bermuda.  The 
address  of  its  registered  office  is  Clarendon  House,  2  Church  Street,  Hamilton  HM11,  Bermuda  and  the  principal  office  is 
33rd floor, Harbour Centre, No. 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong.

The  principal  activity  of  the  Company  is  investment  holding  and  the  activities  of  its  principal  subsidiaries,  associated 
companies and joint ventures are set out on pages 145 to 154 of the accounts.

The Company has its listing on the Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.

2.  Summary of significant accounting policies

The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated accounts are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless otherwise stated.

2.1  Basis of preparation

The  consolidated  accounts  have  been  prepared  in  accordance  with  Hong  Kong  Financial  Reporting  Standards 
(“HKFRS”). They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investment 
property, available-for-sale financial assets, portfolio investments and derivative financial instruments which are carried 
at fair value.

The consolidated accounts are prepared in accordance with the applicable requirements of the predecessor Hong Kong 
Companies Ordinance (Cap. 32) for this financial year and the comparative period.

The preparation of accounts in conformity with HKFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires  management  to  exercise  its  judgement  in  the  process  of  applying  the  Group’s  accounting  policies.  The  areas 
involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the 
consolidated accounts, are disclosed in note 4.

the adoption of revised HKfrS

In 2014, the Group adopted the following amendments and interpretations to existing HKFRS below, which are relevant 
to its operations.

amendments and interpretation to existing standards

HKAS 32 Amendment
HKAS 36 Amendment
HK(IFRIC) – Int 21

Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets
Levies

There are no other new standards, amendments, interpretations and improvements that are effective for the first time in 
2014 that would have a material impact on the Group.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

89

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.1  Basis of preparation (Continued)

New  standards,  amendments  and  improvements  to  existing  standards  that  are  relevant  but  not  yet 
effective to the Group

New standards, amendments and improvements to existing standards

HKAS 19 (2011) Amendment
HKFRSs
HKFRSs
HKFRSs
HKAS 16 and HKAS 38 
  Amendments
HKFRS 15
HKFRS 9

Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions
Annual Improvements 2010-2012 Reporting Cycle
Annual Improvements 2011-2013 Reporting Cycle
Annual Improvements 2012-2014 Reporting Cycle
Classification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation 
  and Amortisation
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Financial Instruments

effective for 
accounting periods 
beginning on or after

1st July 2014
1st July 2014
1st July 2014
1st January 2016
1st January 2016

1st January 2017
1st January 2018

The Group has not early adopted the above new standards, amendments and improvements and is not yet in a position 
to state whether substantial changes to the Group’s accounting policies and presentation of accounts will result.

New Hong Kong Companies ordinance (Cap.622)

In addition, the requirements of Part 9 “Accounts and Audit” of the new Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) 
come into operation as from the Company’s first financial year commencing on or after 3rd March 2014 in accordance 
with  section  358  of  that  Ordinance.  The  Group  is  in  the  process  of  making  an  assessment  of  expected  impact  of  the 
changes in the Companies Ordinance on the consolidated accounts in the period of initial application of Part 9 of the 
new Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622). So far it has concluded that the impact is unlikely to be significant 
and only the presentation and the disclosure of information in the consolidated accounts will be affected.

2.2  Consolidation

The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 31st December.

The consolidated accounts also include the Group’s attributable share of post-acquisition results and reserves of its joint 
ventures and associated companies.

(a)  Subsidiaries

A subsidiary is an entity (including a structured entity) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an 
entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has 
the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on 
which control is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.

The  Group  uses  the  acquisition  method  of  accounting  to  account  for  business  combinations.  The  consideration 
transferred  for  the  acquisition  of  a  subsidiary  is  the  fair  values  of  the  assets  transferred,  the  liabilities  incurred 
and  the  equity  interests  issued  by  the  Group.  The  consideration  transferred  includes  the  fair  value  of  any  asset 
or  liability  resulting  from  a  contingent  consideration  arrangement.  Acquisition-related  costs  are  expensed  as 
incurred.  Identifiable  assets  acquired  and  liabilities  and  contingent  liabilities  assumed  in  a  business  combination 
are  measured  initially  at  their  fair  values  at  the  acquisition  date.  The  Group  recognises  any  non-controlling 
interest  in  the  acquiree  on  an  acquisition-by-acquisition  basis.  Non-controlling  interests  in  the  acquiree  that  are 
present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets in the event 
of  liquidation  are  measured  at  either  fair  value  or  the  present  ownership  interests’  proportionate  share  in  the 
recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. All other components of non-controlling interests are 
measured at their acquisition date fair value, unless another measurement basis is required by HKFRS.

90 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.2  Consolidation (Continued)

(a)  Subsidiaries (Continued)

The  excess  of  the  consideration  transferred,  the  amount  of  any  non-controlling  interest  in  the  acquiree  and  the 
acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net 
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised 
and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the 
case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Inter-company  transactions,  balances  and  unrealised  gains  on  transactions  between  group  companies  are 
eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the 
asset transferred.

In  the  Company’s  balance  sheet,  the  investments  in  subsidiaries  are  stated  at  cost  less  provision  for  impairment 
losses. The results of subsidiaries are recognised by the Company on the basis of dividend received and receivable.

(b)  transactions with non-controlling interests

Transactions  with  non-controlling  interests  that  do  not  result  in  a  loss  of  control  are  accounted  for  as  equity 
transactions – that is, as transactions with the owners of the subsidiary in their capacity as owners. The difference 
between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary 
is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.

When  the  Group  ceases  to  have  control,  any  retained  interest  in  the  entity  is  remeasured  to  its  fair  value,  with 
the  change  in  carrying  amount  recognised  in  profit  or  loss.  The  fair  value  is  the  initial  carrying  amount  for  the 
purposes  of  subsequent  accounting  for  the  retained  interest  as  an  associate,  joint  venture  or  financial  asset.  In 
addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted 
for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.

(c)  Joint arrangements

Joint  arrangements  are  classified  as  either  joint  operations  or  joint  ventures  depending  on  the  contractual  rights 
and obligations of each investor. The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them 
to be joint ventures. Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.

Under  the  equity  method  of  accounting,  interests  in  joint  ventures  are  initially  recognised  at  cost  and  adjusted 
thereafter  to  recognise  the  Group’s  share  of  the  post-acquisition  profits  or  losses  and  movements  in  other 
comprehensive  income.  When  the  Group’s  share  of  losses  in  a  joint  venture  equals  or  exceeds  its  interests  in  the 
joint ventures (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment 
in  the  joint  ventures),  the  Group  does  not  recognise  further  losses,  unless  it  has  incurred  obligations  or  made 
payments on behalf of the joint ventures.

Unrealised  gains  on  transactions  between  the  Group  and  its  joint  ventures  are  eliminated  to  the  extent  of  the 
Group’s interest in the joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence 
of an impairment of the asset transferred.

(d)  associated companies

Associated  companies  are  all  entities  over  which  the  Group  has  significant  influence  but  not  control,  generally 
accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associated companies 
are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investments 
in associated companies includes goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) identified on acquisition.

If  the  ownership  interest  in  an  associate  is  reduced  but  significant  influence  is  retained,  only  a  proportionate 
share of the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where 
appropriate.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

91

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.2  Consolidation (Continued)

(d)  associated companies (Continued)

The  Group’s  share  of  its  associated  companies’  post-acquisition  profits  or  losses  is  recognised  in  the  consolidated 
profit  and  loss  account,  and  its  share  of  post-acquisition  movements  in  reserves  is  recognised  in  reserves.  The 
cumulative  post-acquisition  movements  are  adjusted  against  the  carrying  amount  of  the  investment.  When  the 
Group’s share of losses in an associated company equals or exceeds its interest in the associated company, including 
any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or 
made payments on behalf of the associated company.

Profits  and  losses  resulting  from  upstream  and  downstream  transactions  between  the  Group  and  its  associate  are 
recognised in the Group’s financial statements only to the extent of unrelated investor’s interests in the associates. 
Unrealised  losses  are  also  eliminated  unless  the  transaction  provides  evidence  of  an  impairment  of  the  asset 
transferred. Accounting policies of associated companies have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency 
with the policies adopted by the Group.

2.3  property, plant and equipment

All  property,  plant  and  equipment  are  stated  at  historical  cost  less  depreciation  and  impairment  losses.  Historical  cost 
includes  expenditure  that  is  directly  attributable  to  the  acquisition  of  the  items.  Subsequent  costs  are  included  in  the 
asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic 
benefits  associated  with  the  item  will  flow  to  the  Group  and  the  cost  of  the  item  can  be  measured  reliably.  All  other 
repairs  and  maintenance  are  charged  to  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  during  the  financial  period  in  which 
they are incurred.

No depreciation is provided for assets under construction and freehold land.

Vehicles, computer and other equipment include terminal equipment and improvements.

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their 
residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows:

Container vessels
Containers
Chassis
Terminal equipment and improvements
Freehold buildings
Leasehold buildings
Leasehold improvement
Furnitures, vehicles, computer and other equipment

25 years
5 to 12 years
10 to 12 years
10 to 15 years
Not exceeding 75 years
Over period of the lease
Over period of the lease
3 to 15 years

The  residual  values  of  the  assets  and  their  useful  lives  are  reviewed  and  adjusted  if  appropriate,  at  each  balance  sheet 
date.

The carrying amount of an asset is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount of the 
asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.

Gains  and  losses  on  disposals  are  determined  as  the  difference  between  the  net  disposal  proceeds  and  the  carrying 
amounts of the assets and are dealt with in the consolidated profit and loss account.

92 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.4  investment property

Property  that  is  held  for  long-term  rental  yields  or  for  capital  appreciation  or  both,  and  that  is  not  occupied  by  the 
companies  in  the  Group,  is  classified  as  investment  property.  Investment  property  comprises  freehold  land,  land  held 
under  operating  leases  and  buildings  held  under  finance  leases.  Land  held  under  operating  leases  are  classified  and 
accounted for as investment property when the rest of the definition of investment property is met. The operating lease 
is accounted for as if it were a finance lease.

Investment  property  is  initially  measured  at  cost,  including  related  transaction  costs  and  where  applicable  borrowing 
costs. After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair value. Fair value is based on valuation carried out 
semi-annually  by  an  independent  external  valuer.  Changes  in  fair  values  are  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and 
loss account.

2.5  Vessel repairs and surveys

Upon  acquisition  of  a  vessel,  the  components  of  the  vessel  which  are  required  to  be  replaced  at  the  next  dry-docking 
are  identified  and  their  costs  are  depreciated  over  the  period  to  the  next  estimated  dry-docking  date,  usually  ranging 
from  three  to  five  years.  Costs  incurred  on  subsequent  dry-docking  of  vessels  are  capitalised  and  depreciated  over  the 
period to the next estimated dry-docking date. When significant dry-docking costs incurred prior to the expiry of the 
depreciation period, the remaining costs of the previous dry-docking are written off immediately.

2.6  intangible assets

(a)  Goodwill

Goodwill  represents  the  excess  of  the  cost  of  an  acquisition  over  the  fair  value  of  the  Group’s  share  of  the  net 
identifiable  assets  of  the  acquired  subsidiary,  associated  company  or  joint  ventures  at  the  effective  date  of 
acquisition.

Goodwill on acquisition of a foreign operation is treated as an asset of the foreign operation.

Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiaries is retained at the carrying amount as an intangible asset. Goodwill 
arising  on  acquisition  of  associated  companies  and  joint  ventures  is  included  within  investments  in  associated 
companies  and  joint  ventures  respectively  and  is  tested  for  impairment  as  part  of  overall  balance.  Separately 
recognised  goodwill  is  subject  to  impairment  review  annually  and  when  there  are  indications  that  the  carrying 
value  may  not  be  recoverable.  If  the  cost  of  acquisition  is  less  than  the  fair  value  of  the  Group’s  share  of  the  net 
identifiable assets of the acquired company, the difference is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

The  profit  or  loss  on  disposal  of  subsidiaries,  associated  companies  or  joint  ventures  is  calculated  by  reference 
to  the  net  assets  at  the  date  of  disposal  including  the  attributable  amount  of  goodwill  but  does  not  include  any 
attributable goodwill previously eliminated against reserves.

(b)  Computer software

Costs  associated  with  maintaining  computer  software  programmes  are  recognised  as  an  expense  as  incurred. 
Costs  that  are  directly  associated  with  the  production  of  identifiable  and  unique  software  products  controlled  by 
the  Group,  and  that  will  probably  generate  economic  benefits  exceeding  costs  beyond  one  year,  are  recognised 
as  intangible  assets.  Direct  costs  include  the  software  development  employee  costs  and  an  appropriate  portion  of 
relevant overheads.

Computer  software  development  costs  recognised  as  assets  are  stated  at  cost  less  accumulated  amortisation. 
Amortisation is calculated on the straight-line basis over their estimated useful life of five years.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

93

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.7  impairment of investments in subsidiaries and non-financial assets

Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation, and are at least tested annually for impairment. 
Assets  that  are  subject  to  amortisation  are  reviewed  for  impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which 
the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value 
of an asset less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest 
levels  for  which  there  are  separately  identifiable  cash  flows  (cash  generating  units).  Non-financial  assets  other  than 
goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.

Impairment  testing  of  the  investments  in  subsidiaries  is  required  upon  receiving  dividends  from  these  investments  if 
the dividend exceeds the total comprehensive income of the subsidiary in the period the dividend is declared or if the 
carrying amount of the investment in the separate account exceeds the carrying amount in the consolidated accounts of 
the investee’s net assets including goodwill.

2.8  investments

The  Group  classifies  its  investments  into  the  following  categories:  portfolio  investments,  loans  and  receivables,  held-
to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which the 
investments  were  acquired.  Management  determines  the  classification  of  its  investments  at  initial  recognition  and  re-
evaluates this designation at every reporting date.

(a)  portfolio investments

Portfolio investments include financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through profit or 
loss at inception. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in 
the short term or if so designated by management. Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are 
either held for trading or are expected to be realised within 12 months from the balance sheet date.

(b)  loans and receivables

Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted 
in an active market. They arise when the Group provides money or services directly to a debtor with no intention 
of trading the receivable. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the 
balance sheet date; which are classified as non-current assets.

(c)  Held-to-maturity investments

Held-to-maturity  investments  are  non-derivative  financial  assets  with  fixed  or  determinable  payments  and  fixed 
maturities  that  the  Group’s  management  has  the  positive  intention  and  ability  to  hold  to  maturity.  If  the  Group 
were  to  sell  other  than  an  insignificant  amount  of  held-to-maturity  investments,  the  whole  category  would  be 
reclassified  as  available-for-sale  financial  assets.  Held-to-maturity  investments  are  included  in  non-current  assets, 
except  for  those  with  maturities  less  than  12  months  from  the  balance  sheet  date;  which  are  classified  as  current 
assets.

(d)  available-for-sale financial assets

Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in 
any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the 
investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.

Interest  on  available-for-sale  financial  assets  calculated  using  the  effective  interest  method  is  recognised  in  the 
profit and loss account as part of other income. Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised 
in the profit and loss account as part of other income when the Group’s right to receive payments is established.

94 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.8  investments (Continued)

(e)  recognition and measurement

Regular  way  purchases  and  sales  of  investments  are  recognised  on  trade-date  –  the  date  on  which  the  Group 
commits  to  purchase  or  sell  the  asset.  Investments  are  initially  recognised  at  fair  value  plus  transaction  costs  for 
all  financial  assets  not  carried  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss.  Investments  are  derecognised  when  the  rights 
to  receive  cash  flows  from  the  investments  have  expired  or  have  been  transferred  and  the  Group  has  transferred 
substantially  all  risks  and  rewards  of  ownership.  Available-for-sale  financial  assets  and  portfolio  investments  are 
subsequently carried at fair value. Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method less impairment losses, if any.

Realised  and  unrealised  gains  and  losses  arising  from  changes  in  the  fair  value  of  the  portfolio  investments  are 
included in the consolidated profit and loss account in the period in which they arise. Unrealised gains and losses 
arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets are 
recognised in other comprehensive income. When securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets are sold 
or  impaired,  the  accumulated  fair  value  adjustments  are  included  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  as 
gains and losses from available-for-sale financial assets.

The  fair  values  of  quoted  investments  are  based  on  current  bid  prices.  If  the  market  for  a  financial  asset  is  not 
active  (and  for  unlisted  securities),  the  Group  establishes  fair  value  by  using  valuation  techniques.  These  include 
the  use  of  recent  arm’s  length  transactions,  reference  to  other  instruments  that  are  substantially  the  same, 
discounted cash flow analysis, and option pricing models refined to reflect the issuer’s specific circumstances.

The  Group  may  choose  to  reclassify  a  non-derivative  trading  financial  asset  out  of  the  portfolio  investments 
category  if  the  financial  asset  is  no  longer  held  for  the  purpose  of  selling  it  in  the  near  term.  Financial  assets 
other  than  loans  and  receivables  are  permitted  to  be  reclassified  out  of  the  held  for  trading  category  only  in  rare 
circumstances arising from a single event that is unusual and highly unlikely to recur in the near term. In addition, 
the  Group  may  choose  to  reclassify  financial  assets  that  would  meet  the  definition  of  loans  and  receivables  or 
held-to-maturity investments out of the portfolio investments or available-for-sale financial assets categories if the 
Group has the intention and ability to hold these financial assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity at the 
date of reclassification.

Reclassifications  are  made  at  fair  value  as  of  the  reclassification  date.  Fair  value  becomes  the  new  cost  or 
amortised cost as applicable, and no reversals of fair value gains or losses recorded before reclassification date are 
subsequently  made.  Effective  interest  rates  for  financial  assets  reclassified  to  loans  and  receivables  and  held-to-
maturity  categories  are  determined  at  the  reclassification  date.  Further  increases  in  estimates  of  cash  flows  adjust 
effective interest rates prospectively.

The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group 
of  financial  assets  is  impaired.  In  the  case  of  equity  securities  classified  as  available-for-sale  financial  assets,  a 
significant  or  prolonged  decline  in  the  fair  value  of  the  securities  below  its  cost  is  considered  in  determining 
whether the securities are impaired. If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative 
loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on 
that  financial  asset  previously  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  is  removed  from  equity  and 
recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account. Impairment losses recognised in the consolidated profit and 
loss account on equity instruments are not reversed through the consolidated profit and loss account.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

95

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.8  investments (Continued)

(e)  recognition and measurement (Continued)

Impairment  on  held-to-maturity  investments  is  considered  at  both  an  individual  and  collective  level.  The 
individual  impairment  allowance  is  measured  as  the  difference  between  the  asset’s  carrying  amount  and  the 
present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at asset’s original effective interest rate, where the effect of 
discounting is material.

For loans and receivables category, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount  and  the  present  value  of  estimated  future  cash  flows  (excluding  future  credit  losses  that  have  not  been 
incurred)  discounted  at  the  financial  asset’s  original  effective  interest  rate.  The  carrying  amount  of  the  asset  is 
reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account. If a loan or held-to-
maturity investment has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current 
effective interest rate determined under the contract. As a practical expedient, the Group may measure impairment 
on the basis of an instrument’s fair value using an observable market price.

(f)  offsetting financial instruments

Financial  assets  and  liabilities  are  offset  and  the  net  amount  reported  in  the  balance  sheet  when  there  is  a  legally 
enforceable  right  to  offset  the  recognised  amounts  and  there  is  an  intention  to  settle  on  a  net  basis  or  realise  the 
asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events 
and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of 
the company or the counterparty.

2.9  inventories

Inventories  mainly  comprise bunkers  and consumable stores. Cost is calculated on weighted average basis. Inventories 
are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses.

2.10  Debtors

Debtors  are  recognised  initially  at  fair  value  and  subsequently  measured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective  interest 
method,  less  provision  for  impairment.  A  provision  for  impairment  of  debtors  is  established  when  there  is  objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. The 
amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future 
cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The amount of the provision is recognised in the consolidated profit 
and loss account.

If collection of debtors is expected in one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they 
are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets.

2.11 Cash and cash equivalents

Cash  and  cash  equivalents  include  cash  in  hand,  deposits  held  at  call  with  banks  with  original  maturities  of  three 
months  or  less  and  net  of  bank  overdrafts.  Bank  overdrafts  are  shown  within  borrowings  in  current  liabilities  on  the 
consolidated balance sheet.

2.12 Share capital

Ordinary shares are classified as equity.

Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the 
proceeds.

96 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.13 Creditors

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business 
from suppliers.  Creditors are  classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal 
operating cycle of the business if longer. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.

Trade  creditors  are  recognised  initially  at  fair  value  and  subsequently  measured  at  amortised  cost  using  the  effective 
interest method.

2.14 Borrowings

Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at 
amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in 
the consolidated profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.

Borrowings  are  classified  as  current  liabilities  unless  the  Group  has  an  unconditional  right  to  defer  settlement  of  the 
liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.

Fees  paid  on  the  establishment  of  loan  facilities  are  recognised  as  transaction  costs  of  the  loan  to  the  extent  that  it 
is  probable  that  some  or  all  of  the  facility  will  be  drawn  down.  In  this  case,  the  fee  is  deferred  until  the  draw-down 
occurs. To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is 
capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.

2.15 Current and deferred taxation

The  tax  expense  for  the  year  comprises  current  and  deferred  tax.  Tax  is  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss 
account, except to the extent that it relates to item recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In 
this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.

The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet  date  in  the  countries  where  the  Company’s  subsidiaries,  joint  ventures  and  associated  companies  operate  and 
generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in 
which  applicable  tax  regulation  is  subject  to  interpretation.  It  establishes  provisions  where  appropriate  on  the  basis  of 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.

Deferred taxation is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases 
of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated accounts. However, if the deferred taxation arises 
from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the 
transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred taxation is determined 
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when 
the related deferred taxation asset is realised or the deferred taxation liability is settled.

Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be utilised.

Deferred  taxation  is  provided  on  temporary  differences  arising  on  investments  in  subsidiaries,  associated  companies 
and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it 
is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
against  current  tax  liabilities  and  when  the  deferred  income  tax  assets  and  liabilities  related  to  income  taxes  levied  by 
the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle 
the balances on a net basis.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

97

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.16 employee benefits

(a)  pension obligations

The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension and retirement benefit schemes 
in  the  main  countries  in  which  the  Group  operates.  These  schemes  are  generally  funded  by  payments  from 
employees and by relevant group companies, taking into account of the recommendations of independent qualified 
actuaries where required.

A  defined  benefit  plan  is  a  pension  plan  that  is  not  a  defined  contribution  plan.  Typically  defined  benefit  plans 
define  an  amount  of  pension  benefit  that  an  employee  will  receive  on  retirement,  usually  dependent  on  one  or 
more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.

The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit 
obligation  is  calculated  annually  by  independent  actuaries  using  the  projected  expected  benefit  payments.  The 
present  value  of  the  defined  benefit  obligation  is  determined  by  discounting  the  estimated  future  cash  outflows 
using interest rates of corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and 
that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. In countries where there 
is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.

The  current  service  cost  of  the  defined  benefit  plan,  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  in 
employee benefit expense, except where included in the cost of an asset, reflects the increase in the defined benefit 
obligation results from employee service in the current year, benefit changes, curtailments and settlements.

Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the consolidated profit and loss account.

The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation 
and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in the consolidated profit and 
loss account.

Actuarial  gains  and  losses  arising  from  experience  adjustments  and  changes  in  actuarial  assumptions  are  charged 
or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.

Contributions under the defined contribution schemes are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are 
due and are reduced by contributions forfeited by those employees who leave the scheme prior to vesting fully in 
the contributions. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction 
in the future payments is available.

(b)  Bonus plans

The  Group  recognises  a  liability  and  an  expense  for  bonuses,  based  on  a  formula  that  takes  into  consideration 
the profit attributable to the Company’s shareholders after certain adjustments. The Group recognises a provision 
where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.

(c)  employee leave entitlements

Employee  entitlements  to  annual  leave  are  recognised  when  they  accrue  to  employees.  A  provision  is  made  for 
the estimated liability for annual leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the balance sheet date. 
Employee entitlements to sick leave and maternity leave are not recognised until the time of leave.

98 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.17 provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated.

Where  there  are  a  number  of  similar  obligations,  the  likelihood  that  an  outflow  will  be  required  in  settlement  is 
determined  by  considering  the  class  of  obligations  as  a  whole.  A  provision  is  recognised  even  if  the  likelihood  of  an 
outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.

2.18 insurance contracts

The  Group  regards  its  financial  guarantees  provided  to  its  subsidiaries  as  insurance  contracts.  The  Group  assesses  at 
each balance sheet date the liabilities under its insurance contracts using current estimates of future cash flows. Changes 
in carrying amount of these insurance liabilities are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

2.19 Segment information

Operating  segments  are  reported  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the  internal  reporting  provided  to  the  chief  operating 
decision-maker.  The  chief  operating  decision-maker,  who  is  responsible  for  allocating  resources  and  assessing 
performance of the operating segments and making strategic decisions, has been identified as the Board of Directors.

2.20 foreign currency translation

(a)  functional and presentation currency

Items  included  in  the  accounts  of  each  of  the  Group’s  entities  are  measured  using  the  currency  of  the  primary 
economic  environment  in  which  the  entity  operates  (the  “functional  currency”).  The  consolidated  accounts  are 
presented in US dollar, which is the Company’s functional currency and the Group’s presentation currency.

(b)  transactions and balances

Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and 
from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.

Translation  differences  on  non-monetary  items,  such  as  equities  held  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss,  are 
reported  as  part  of  the  fair  value  gain  or  loss.  Translation  differences  on  non-monetary  items,  such  as  equities 
classified as available-for-sale financial assets, are included in the assets revaluation reserve in other comprehensive 
income.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

99

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.20 foreign currency translation (Continued)

(c)  Group companies

The results and financial position of all the group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary 
economy)  that  have  a  functional  currency  different  from  the  presentation  currency  are  translated  into  the 
presentation currency as follows:

(i) 

assets  and  liabilities  for  each  balance  sheet  presented  are  translated  at  the  closing  rate  at  the  date  of  that 
balance sheet;

(ii) 

income  and  expenses  for  each  profit  and  loss  account  are  translated  at  average  exchange  rates  (unless 
this  average  is  not  a  reasonable  approximation  of  the  cumulative  effect  of  the  rates  prevailing  on  the 
transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rates prevailing on the dates of the 
transactions); and

(iii)  all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.

On  consolidation,  exchange  differences  arising  from  the  translation  of  the  net  investment  in  foreign  entities, 
and  of  borrowings  and  other  currency  instruments  designated  as  hedges  of  such  investments,  are  taken  to  other 
comprehensive  income.  When  a  foreign  operation  is  sold,  such  exchange  differences  are  recognised  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account as part of the gain or loss on sale.

Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities 
of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.

2.21 revenue recognition

Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of services, net of value-added 
tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. The Group recognises revenue when the amount 
of  revenue  can  be  reliably  measured,  it  is  probable  that  future  economic  benefits  will  flow  to  the  entity  and  when 
specific criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities as described below. Revenue is recognised as follows:

(a)  Freight revenues from the operation of the container transport are recognised on a percentage of completion basis, 

which is determined on the time proportion method of each individual vessel voyage.

(b)  Revenues from logistics business are recognised when services are rendered or on an accrual basis.

(c)  Revenues from the operation of container terminals and provision of other services are recognised when services 

are rendered or on an accrual basis.

(d)  Rental income under operating leases is recognised over the periods of the respective leases on a straight-line basis.

(e) 

Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.

(f)  Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.

100 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (Continued)

2.22 leases

(a)  operating lease

Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified 
as  operating  leases.  Payments  made  under  operating  leases,  net  of  any  incentives  received  from  the  lessor,  are 
charged to the consolidated profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.

The up-front prepayments made for the leasehold land and land use rights are expensed in the consolidated profit 
and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease or where there is impairment, the impairment 
is expensed in the consolidated profit and loss account.

(b)  finance lease

Leases of assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance 
leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased assets 
and  the  present  value  of  the  minimum  lease  payments.  Each  lease  payment  is  allocated  between  the  liability  and 
finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the balance outstanding. The corresponding rental obligations, 
net  of  finance  charges,  are  included  in  current  and  non-current  borrowings.  The  interest  element  of  the  finance 
cost  is  recognised  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  over  the  lease  period  so  as  to  produce  a  constant 
periodic rate of interest on the remaining balances of the liability for each period.

2.23 Borrowing costs

Borrowing  costs  are  expensed  in  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  in  the  period  in  which  they  are  incurred, 
except to the extent that they are capitalised as being directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production 
of a qualifying asset which necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale.

The  capitalisation  of  borrowing  costs  as  part  of  the  cost  of  a  qualifying  asset  commences  when  expenditure  for  the 
asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for its 
intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the 
activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.

2.24 Derivative financial instruments

Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and 
are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. Changes in fair value are recognised in the consolidated profit and loss 
account.

2.25 Dividend distribution

Dividend  distribution  to  the  Company’s  equity  holders  is  recognised  as  a  liability  in  the  Group’s  and  the  Company’s 
accounts in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s Directors/equity holders.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

101

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts3.  financial risk management

3.1  financial risk factors

The  Group’s  activities  expose  it  to  a  variety  of  financial  risks:  foreign  exchange  risk,  price  risk,  credit  risk,  liquidity 
risk  and  cash  flow  and  fair  value  interest-rate  risk.  The  Group’s  overall  risk  management  policy  focuses  on  the 
unpredictability  of  financial  markets  and  seeks  to  minimise  potential  adverse  effects  on  the  Group’s  financial 
performance.

The  Group  has  regularly  monitored  current  and  expected  liquidity  requirements  against  the  cash  on  hand,  expected 
net  operating  cash  flow,  committed  facilities  and  its  compliance  with  loan  covenants,  to  ensure  the  Group’s  liquidity 
requirements can be met in the short and longer term.

The Group has paid ongoing attention on credit quality of counterparties, in particular major customers and financial 
institutions with relationship in terms of debt securities, derivatives and cash transactions. Credit qualities of respective 
counterparties are disclosed in respective notes to the consolidated accounts.

(a)  foreign exchange risk

The  Group  operates  internationally  and  is  exposed  to  foreign  exchange  risk  arising  from  various  currency 
exposures,  primarily  with  respect  to  fluctuation  in  the  exchange  rates  of  foreign  currencies  to  the  US  dollar. 
Foreign currency exposures are covered by forward contracts and options whenever appropriate.

Income and expenses from container transport and logistics activities are mainly denominated in US dollar and in 
various currencies, mainly including Euro, Canadian dollar, Japanese yen and Renminbi.

To  limit  currency  exposure,  the  US  dollar  based  activities  are  financed  primarily  by  loans  in  US  dollar.  With  all 
other  variables  held  constant,  an  average  change  in  the  US  dollar  exchange  rate  of  1%,  compared  with  all  other 
non-US  dollar  related  currencies,  has  a  positive/negative  effect  on  the  results  for  2014  of  approximately  US$10.9 
million (2013: US$10.4 million).

(b)  price risk

The  container  transport  and  logistics  activities  are  sensitive  to  economic  fluctuations.  The  Group  is  exposed  to 
freight  rate  risk.  The  Group’s  revenue  will  increase/decrease  by  US$56.5  million  (2013:  US$54.3  million)  for  1% 
increase/reduction of the average container freight rates with all other variables held constant.

The Group is exposed to bunker price risk for its container transport and logistics activities. Bunker cost is one of 
the major cost components of container transport and logistics activities. An increase in bunker price can only be 
partially  compensated  through  freight  surcharge  bunker  price  adjustment.  With  all  other  variables  held  constant, 
the  operating  cost  will  be  increased  by  approximately  US$1.7  million  (2013:  US$1.8  million)  for  one  US  dollar 
increase in bunker price per ton.

The  Group  is  also  exposed  to  equity/debt  securities  price  risk  because  of  investments  held  by  the  Group  include 
available-for-sale financial assets or portfolio investments which are accounted at fair value through profit or loss. 
To  manage  its  price  risk  arising  from  investments  in  equity/debt  securities,  the  Group  diversifies  its  portfolio.  If 
the prices of the respective quoted equity/debt securities of the Group had been increased/decreased by 1% and all 
other  variables  held  constant,  the  profit  after  taxation  and  the  other  comprehensive  income  of  the  Group  for  the 
year  ended  31st  December  2014  would  increase/decrease  by  US$2.1  million  (2013:  US$2.1  million)  and  US$0.7 
million  (2013:  US$0.4  million)  respectively  as  a  result  of  the  changes  in  fair  value  of  equity/debt  securities  under 
portfolio investments and equity securities classified as available-for-sale.

102 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.1  financial risk factors (Continued)

(c)  Credit risk

The  Group  has  no  significant  concentrations  of  credit  risk.  It  has  policies  in  place  to  ensure  that  services  are 

provided to customers with an appropriate credit history.

The  extent  of  the  Group’s  credit  exposure  is  represented  by  the  aggregate  balance  of  cash  and  bank  balances, 

portfolio  investments,  held-to-maturity  investments,  derivative  financial  instruments,  restricted  bank  balances, 

other deposits and debtors and prepayments. The credit quality of these exposures is disclosed in relevant notes to 

the consolidated accounts.

(d)  liquidity risk

Prudent  liquidity  risk  management  implies  maintaining  sufficient  cash  and  cash  equivalents,  the  availability  of 

funding  through  an  adequate  amount  of  committed  credit  facilities  and  the  ability  to  close  out  market  positions. 

The  Group  aims  to  maintain  flexibility  in  funding  by  keeping  sufficient  cash  and  cash  equivalents  and  readily 

realisable liquid assets.

Surplus  cash  held  by  the  operating  entities  over  and  above  balance  required  for  working  capital  management  is 

transferred to the Group Treasury. Group Treasury invests surplus cash in interest bearing current accounts, time 

deposits,  money  market  deposits  and  marketable  securities,  choosing  instruments  with  appropriate  maturities 

or  sufficient  liquidity  to  provide  sufficient  head-room.  At  the  reporting  date,  the  Group  held  liquid  assets  of 

US$2,456.7  million  (2013:  US$2,131.8  million)  that  are  expected  to  readily  generate  cash  inflows  for  managing 

liquidity risk.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

103

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.1  financial risk factors (Continued)

(d)  liquidity risk (Continued)

The  table  below  analyses  the  Group’s  and  the  Company’s  non-derivative  financial  liabilities  and  net-settled 
derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet 
date  to  the  contractual  maturity  date.  The  amounts  disclosed  in  the  table  are  the  contractual  undiscounted  cash 
flows. Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.

US$’000

Group

at 31st December 2014
Borrowings
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to joint ventures
Derivative financial instruments

At 31st December 2013
Borrowings
Creditors and accruals
Amounts due to joint ventures
Derivative financial instruments

Company

at 31st December 2014
Accruals
Amounts due to subsidiaries
Derivative financial instrument

At 31st December 2013
Accruals
Amounts due to subsidiaries
Derivative financial instrument

less than 
1 year

Between 1
 and 2 years

Between 2 
and 5 years over 5 years

443,959
942,704
7,145
1,371

313,761
904,624
6,991
2,657

470,497
–
–
2,503

395,103
–
–
668

1,623,415
–
–
–

1,789,107
–
–
–

1,255,011
–
–
1,732

1,882,274
–
–
–

1,376
261,086
406

–
1,053,229
–

1,367
249,644
2,022

–
1,133,229
–

–
–
–

–
–
–

–
–
–

–
–
–

(e)  Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk

The  Group’s  income  and  operating  cash  flows  are  substantially  independent  of  changes  in  market  interest  rates. 
The Group has a policy to place surplus funds with creditable financial institutions which offer the best return for 
the Group on a short-term basis.

There are no material fixed rate receivables or borrowings in the Group.

The  Group  is  exposed  to  cash  flow  interest  rate  risk  through  the  impact  of  rate  changes  on  interest  bearing 
bank  balances  and  borrowings.  These  exposures  are  partially  managed  through  the  use  of  derivative  financial 
instruments such as interest rate swaps.

At 31st December 2014, if interest rates had been 0.1% higher/lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax 
profit for the year would have been US$1.7 million lower/higher (2013: US$1.6 million lower/higher), mainly as a 
result of higher/lower net interest expense on the net floating rate borrowings.

104 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.2  Capital risk management

The  Group’s  objectives  when  managing  capital  are  to  safeguard  the  Group’s  ability  to  continue  as  a  going  concern 
in  order  to  provide  returns  for  shareholders  and  benefits  for  other  stakeholders  and  to  maintain  an  optimal  capital 
structure to reduce the cost of capital.

In  order  to  maintain  or  adjust  the  capital  structure,  the  Group  may  adjust  the  amount  of  dividends  paid  to  equity 
holders, return capital to equity holders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.

Consistent  with  others  in  the  industry,  the  Group  monitors  capital  on  the  basis  of  the  gearing  ratio.  This  ratio  is 
calculated  as  net  debt  divided  by  total  equity.  Net  debt  is  calculated  as  total  borrowings  (including  “current  and  non-
current borrowings” as shown in the consolidated balance sheet) less restricted bank balances, cash and bank balances 
and portfolio investments.

The gearing ratios at 31st December 2014 and 2013 were as follows:

US$’000

Total borrowings (note 38)
Less:  Restricted bank balances (note 25)
Cash and bank balances (note 35)
Portfolio investments (note 33)

Net debt

Total equity

Gearing ratio

2014

2013

(3,984,502)
54,581
2,165,914
223,423

(3,533,865)
26,172
1,912,346
217,986

(1,540,584)

(1,377,361)

4,634,752

4,476,624

0.33

0.31

The change in net debt position results primarily from the purchase of property, plant and equipment.

3.3  fair value estimation

The  financial  instruments  that  are  measured  in  the  balance  sheet  at  fair  value,  require  disclosure  of  fair  value 
measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy:

•  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).
• 

Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
(that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2).
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).

• 

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

105

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.3  fair value estimation (Continued)

The  following  table  presents  the  Group’s  financial  assets  and  liability  that  are  measured  at  fair  value  at  31st  December 
2014.

US$’000

assets
Portfolio investments
  – Equity securities
  – Debt securities
  – Funds and other investments
Derivative financial instruments
Available-for-sale financial assets
  – Listed equity securities
  – Other investments

level 1

level 2

level 3

total

17,297
194,436
–
–

67,404
–

–
–
11,690
2,888

–
–

–
–
–
–

–
72,232

72,232

17,297
194,436
11,690
2,888

67,404
72,232

365,947

total assets

279,137

14,578

liability
Derivative financial instruments

total liability

–

–

3,355

3,355

–

–

3,355

3,355

The  following  table  presents  the  Group’s  financial  assets  and  liability  that  are  measured  at  fair  value  at  31st  December 
2013.

US$’000

assets
Portfolio investments
  – Equity securities
  – Debt securities
  – Funds and other investments
Derivative financial instruments
Available-for-sale financial assets
  – Listed equity securities
  – Other investments

total assets

liability
Derivative financial instruments

total liability

level 1

level 2

level 3

total

24,322
187,314
–
–

37,521
–

249,157

–

–

–
148
6,202
4,407

–
–

10,757

4,728

4,728

–
–
–
–

–
112,146

112,146

24,322
187,462
6,202
4,407

37,521
112,146

372,060

–

–

4,728

4,728

There were no transfers among levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year.

106 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
3.  financial risk management (Continued)

3.3  fair value estimation (Continued)

The  fair  value  of  financial  instruments  traded  in  active  markets  is  based  on  quoted  market  prices  at  the  balance  sheet 
date. A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, 
industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market 
transactions on an arm’s length basis. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current 
bid price. These instruments are included in level 1. Instruments included in level 1 comprise portfolio investments and 
listed equity securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets.

The  fair  value  of  financial  instruments  that  are  not  traded  in  an  active  market  (for  example,  over-the-counter 
derivatives)  is  determined  by  using  valuation  techniques.  These  valuation  techniques  maximise  the  use  of  observable 
market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required 
to  fair  value  an  instrument  are  observable,  the  instrument  is  included  in  level  2.  Instruments  in  level  2  include  the 
derivative financial instruments.

If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.

Specific valuation techniques used to value level 2 and 3 financial instruments include:

• 
• 

• 

Dealer quotes.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on 
observable yield curves.
The  fair  value  of  forward  foreign  exchange  contracts  is  determined  using  forward  exchange  rates  at  the  balance 
sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value.

•  Marketability discount rate derived from management’s judgement is applied to estimate the fair value of unlisted 

equity security classified as available-for-sale financial asset.

There were no changes in valuation techniques during the year.

Instruments included in level 3 mainly comprise unlisted equity securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets.

The following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments.

US$’000

Opening balance
Disposals
Fair value change recognised in other comprehensive income

Closing balance

2014

112,146
(10)
(39,904)

72,232

2013

115,334
(116)
(3,072)

112,146

For level 3 instruments, the discount rate used to compute the fair value is 15%. The higher the discount rate, the lower 
the fair value.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

107

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts4.  Critical accounting estimates and judgements

Estimates  and  judgements  used  in  preparing  the  accounts  are  continually  evaluated  and  are  based  on  historical  experience 
and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.

The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 
financial year are discussed below.

(a)  income taxes

The  Group  is  subject  to  income  taxes  in  numerous  jurisdictions.  Significant  judgement  is  required  in  determining 
the  worldwide  provision  for  income  taxes.  There  are  many  transactions  and  calculations  for  which  the  ultimate  tax 
determination  is  uncertain  during  the  ordinary  course  of  business.  Where  the  final  tax  outcome  of  these  matters  is 
different  from  the  amounts  that  were  initially  recorded,  such  differences  will  impact  the  income  tax  and  deferred  tax 
provisions in the period in which such determination is made.

Recognition  of  deferred  tax  assets,  which  principally  relate  to  tax  losses,  depends  on  the  management’s  expectation  of 
future taxable profit that will be available against which tax losses can be utilised. The outcome of their actual utilisation 
may be different.

(b)  investment property

The fair value of investment property is determined by an independent valuer on an open market for existing use basis. 
In  making  the  judgement,  consideration  has  been  given  to  assumptions  that  are  mainly  based  on  market  conditions 
existing at the balance sheet date and appropriate capitalisation rates. Management has critically assessed these estimates 
and has regularly compared to actual market data and, if applicable actual transactions entered into by the Group.

(c)  property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

Management  determines  the  estimated  useful  lives  and  residual  values  for  the  Group’s  property,  plant  and  equipment 
and intangible assets. Management will revise the depreciation charge where useful lives and residual values are different 
from previously estimated.

Management  determines  the  estimated  useful  lives  and  related  depreciation  expenses  for  the  vessels  and  containers. 
Management  estimates  useful  lives  of  its  vessels  and  containers  by  reference  to  expected  usage  of  the  vessels  and 
containers,  expected  repair  and  maintenance,  and  technical  or  commercial  obsolescence  arising  from  changes  or 
improvements in the market. It could change significantly as a result of the changes of these factors.

Were  the  useful  lives  of  vessels  and  containers  to  differ  by  10%  from  management  estimates  with  all  other  variables 
held constant, it is estimated that depreciation expense would increase or decrease by approximately US$55.2 million or 
US$38.4 million respectively (2013: US$47.6 million or US$37.8 million respectively).

The  Group’s  management  determines  the  residual  values  for  its  vessels  and  containers.  This  estimate  is  based  on  the 
current scrap values of steels in an active market at each measurement date since management decides to dispose of the 
fully depreciated vessels and containers as scrap steels. Depreciation expense would increase where the residual values 
are less than previously estimated values.

Were the residual values of containers and vessels to differ by 10% from management estimates with all other variables 
held constant, it is estimated that depreciation expense would increase or decrease by approximately US$12.9 million or 
US$14.1 million respectively (2013: US$12.5 million or US$12.5 million respectively).

108 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts4.  Critical accounting estimates and judgements (Continued)

(d)  provision of operating cost

Operating  costs,  which  mainly  comprise  cargo,  vessel  and  voyage  costs,  equipment  repositioning  cost  and  terminal 
operating  cost.  Invoices  in  relation  to  these  expenses  are  received  approximately  up  to  four  months  after  the  expenses 
have  been  incurred.  Consequently,  recognition  of  operating  costs  is  based  on  the  rendering  of  services  as  well  as  the 
latest tariff agreed with vendors.

If  the  actual  expenses  of  a  voyage  differ  from  the  estimated  expenses,  this  will  have  an  impact  on  operating  cost  in 
future periods. Historically, the Group has not experienced significant deviation from the actual expenses.

(e)  Held-to-maturity investments

The  Group  follows  HKAS  39  guidance  on  classifying  non-derivative  financial  assets  with  fixed  or  determinable 
payments  and  fixed  maturity  as  held-to-maturity  investments.  This  classification  requires  significant  judgement.  In 
making this judgement, the Group evaluates its intention and ability to hold such investments to maturity.

5.  revenue and segment information

(a)  revenue

US$’000

Container transport and logistics
Others

2014

2013

6,494,859
26,730

6,205,342
26,241

6,521,589

6,231,583

The principal activities of the Group are container transport and logistics.

Revenue comprises turnover which includes gross freight, charter hire, service and other income from the operation of 
the container transport and logistics and rental income from the investment property.

(b)  Segment information

The  principal  activities  of  the  Group  are  container  transport  and  logistics.  Container  transport  and  logistics  include 
global  containerised  shipping  services  in  major  trade  lanes,  covering  Trans-Pacific,  Trans-Atlantic,  Asia/Europe,  Asia/
Australia and Intra-Asia trades, and integrated services over the management and control of effective storage and flow 
of goods. In accordance with the Group’s internal financial reporting provided to the chief operating decision-makers, 
who  are  responsible  for  allocating  resources,  assessing  performance  of  the  operating  segments  and  making  strategic 
decisions, the reportable operating segments are container transport and logistics and others.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

109

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts5.  revenue and segment information (Continued)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

operating segments

The segment results for the year ended 31st December 2014 are as follows:

US$’000

revenue

Operating profit
Finance costs (note 12)
Share of profits of joint ventures (note 20)
Share of profits of associated companies (note 21)

profit before taxation
Taxation

profit for the year

Capital expenditure
Depreciation
Amortisation

Container 
transport 
and logistics

6,494,859

229,979
(54,000)
4,364
15,072

195,415
(16,727)

178,688

848,422
323,481
8,672

others

elimination

Group

27,638

99,168
–
–
–

99,168
(7,418)

91,750

347
1
–

(908)

6,521,589

–
–
–
–

–
–

–

–
–
–

329,147
(54,000)
4,364
15,072

294,583
(24,145)

270,438

848,769
323,482
8,672

The segment results for the year ended 31st December 2013 are as follows:

US$’000

revenue

Operating profit
Finance costs (note 12)
Share of profits of joint ventures (note 20)
Share of profits of associated companies (note 21)

profit before taxation
Taxation

profit for the year

Capital expenditure
Depreciation
Amortisation

Container 
transport 
and logistics

6,205,342

57,381
(41,019)
4,001
13,703

34,066
(16,476)

17,590

987,525
302,883
8,917

Others

Elimination

Group

27,115

32,933
–
–
–

32,933
(3,390)

29,543

11,926
1
–

(874)

6,231,583

–
–
–
–

–
–

–

–
–
–

90,314
(41,019)
4,001
13,703

66,999
(19,866)

47,133

999,451
302,884
8,917

110 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts5.  revenue and segment information (Continued)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

operating segments (Continued)

The segment assets and liabilities at 31st December 2014 are as follows:

US$’000

Segment assets
Joint ventures
Associated companies

Total assets

Segment liabilities

The segment assets and liabilities at 31st December 2013 are as follows:

US$’000

Segment assets
Joint ventures
Associated companies

Total assets

Segment liabilities

Container 
transport 
and logistics

others

Group

6,861,002
9,248
152,499

2,610,706
–
–

9,471,708
9,248
152,499

7,022,749

2,610,706

9,633,455

(4,938,332)

(60,371)

(4,998,703)

Container 
transport 
and logistics

6,616,682
8,674
142,027

Others

Group

2,222,835
–
–

8,839,517
8,674
142,027

6,767,383

2,222,835

8,990,218

(4,456,967)

(56,627)

(4,513,594)

The segment of “Others” primarily includes assets and liabilities of property and corporate level activities. Assets under 
the  segment  of  “Others”  consist  primarily  of  investment  property,  available-for-sale  financial  assets,  held-to-maturity 
investments  and  portfolio  investments  together  with  cash  and  bank  balances  that  are  managed  at  the  corporate  level. 
Liabilities  under  the  segment  of  “Others”  primarily  include  creditors  and  accruals  and  deferred  taxation  liabilities 
related to corporate level activities.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

111

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  revenue and segment information (Continued)

(b)  Segment information (Continued)

Geographical information

The Group’s two reportable operating segments operate in four main geographical areas, even though they are managed 
on  a  worldwide  basis.  Freight  revenues  from  container  transport  and  logistics  are  analysed  based  on  the  outbound 
cargoes of each geographical territory.

The Group’s total assets mainly include container vessels and containers which are primarily utilised across geographical 
markets  for  shipment  of  cargoes  throughout  the  world.  Accordingly,  non-current  assets  by  geographical  areas  are  not 
presented.

US$’000

Year ended 31st December 2014
  Asia
  Europe
  North America
  Australia
  Unallocated *

Year ended 31st December 2013
  Asia
  Europe
  North America
  Australia
  Unallocated *

revenue

Capital 
expenditure

4,237,331
1,168,338
894,056
221,864
–

6,521,589

4,105,788
908,192
994,121
223,482
–

6,231,583

16,288
391
177,601
14
654,475

848,769

11,353
609
104,438
1,012
882,039

999,451

* 

Unallocated capital expenditure comprises additions to vessels, dry-docking, containers and intangible assets.

2014

3,070,264
2,047,527
742,970

5,860,761
15,036

2013

2,816,731
2,166,513
775,548

5,758,792
13,254

5,875,797

5,772,046

6.  operating costs

US$’000

Cargo
Vessel and voyage
Equipment and repositioning

Investment property

112 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts7.  other operating income

US$’000

Income from available-for-sale financial assets
  – Gain on disposal
  – Distribution
  – Dividend income
Interest income from banks
Interest income from held-to-maturity investments
Portfolio investment income
  – Fair value gain (realised and unrealised)
  – Interest income
  – Dividend income
Net gain on interest rate swap contracts
Fair value gain on foreign exchange forward contracts
Gain on derecognition of borrowings
Profit on disposal of a subsidiary
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Exchange gain
Others

2014

2013

27
3,660
40,175
17,714
12,306

6,284
7,668
810
165
1,130
13,508
4,964
9,697
–
1,272

112
2,323
7,906
15,547
9,949

–
8,122
686
–
2,621
–
–
9,032
5,271
1,673

119,380

63,242

The investment income from listed investments for the year amounts to US$30.7 million (2013: US$21.1 million).

8.  other operating expenses

US$’000

Business and administrative
Portfolio investment loss
  – Fair value loss (realised and unrealised)
Net loss on interest rate swap contracts
Exchange loss

9.  employee benefit expense

US$’000

Wages and salaries
Pension and retirement benefits
  – Defined contribution plans (note 24)
  – Defined benefit plans (note 24)

2014

432,448

–
–
13,230

2013

414,913

9,828
801
–

445,678

425,542

2014

490,616

26,262
1,232

2013

456,656

23,511
1,068

518,110

481,235

Employee  benefit  expenses  of  US$181.1  million  (2013:  US$169.4  million)  are  included  in  “operating  costs”  in  the 
consolidated profit and loss account.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

113

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts10.  Directors’ and management’s emoluments

(a)  Directors’ emoluments

The remuneration of every Director is set out below:

Name of Director
US$’000

for the year ended 31st December 2014

Mr. C C Tung
Mr. Tsann Rong Chang
Prof. Roger King
Mr. Philip Chow
Mr. Andrew Tung
Mr. Alan Tung
Mr. Simon Murray
Prof. Richard Wong
Mr. Edward Cheng

Name of Director 
US$’000

For the year ended 31st December 2013

Mr. C C Tung
Mr. Tsann Rong Chang
Prof. Roger King
Mr. Philip Chow
Mr. Kenneth G Cambie*
Mr. Andrew Tung
Mr. Alan Tung
Mr. Simon Murray
Prof. Richard Wong
Mr. Edward Cheng

Fees

107
59
60
32
–
–
–
32
47
32

Salary
and
benefits

employer’s
contribution
to provident
fund scheme

637
–
–
270
482
331
–
–
–

64
–
–
–
48
33
–
–
–

fees

107
59
60
32
–
–
32
47
32

Salary
and
benefits

Discretionary
bonuses

Employer’s
contribution
to provident
fund scheme

611
–
–
347
208
463
313
–
–
–

99
–
–
45
128
75
48
–
–
–

71
–
–
4
25
54
36
–
–
–

total

808
59
60
302
530
364
32
47
32

Total

888
59
60
428
361
592
397
32
47
32

The discretionary bonuses paid in 2013 relate to performance for year 2012.

* 

Resigned on 1st June 2013.

None of the Directors has waived the right to receive their emoluments.

114 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts10.  Directors’ and management’s emoluments (Continued)

(b)  five highest paid individuals

The  five  individuals  whose  emoluments  were  the  highest  in  the  Group  for  the  year  include  two  (2013:  two)  Directors 
whose  emoluments  are  reflected  in  the  analysis  presented  above.  The  emoluments  payable  to  the  remaining  three 
individuals (2013: three individuals) are as follows:

US$’000

Basic salaries, housing allowances, other allowances and benefits in kind
Discretionary bonuses
Pension costs – defined contribution plans

The emoluments of the five individuals fell within the following bands:

emolument bands (US$)

384,601 ~ 448,700 (HK$3,000,001 ~ HK$3,500,000)
448,701 ~ 512,800 (HK$3,500,001 ~ HK$4,000,000)
512,801 ~ 576,900 (HK$4,000,001 ~ HK$4,500,000)
576,901 ~ 641,000 (HK$4,500,001 ~ HK$5,000,000)
769,201 ~ 833,300 (HK$6,000,001 ~ HK$6,500,000)
833,301 ~ 897,400 (HK$6,500,001 ~ HK$7,000,000)

(c)  Key management compensation

US$’000

Salaries and other employee benefits
Pension costs – defined contribution plans

2014

1,099
–
109

1,208

2013

1,058
160
130

1,348

Number of individuals

2014

2013

3
–
1
–
1
–

5

2014

3,629
322

3,951

2
1
–
1
–
1

5

2013

4,712
422

5,134

The  Group  usually  determines  and  pays  discretionary  bonuses  to  employees  (including  Directors)  around  April/May 
each  year  based  on  the  actual  financial  results  of  the  Group  for  the  preceding  year.  The  discretionary  bonuses  shown 
above  represent  actual  payments  to  the  Directors  and  individuals  during  the  current  financial  year  in  relation  to 
performance for the preceding year.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

115

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
11.  operating profit

US$’000

Operating profit is arrived at after crediting:
  Operating lease rental income

  Land and buildings

and after charging:
  Depreciation

  Owned assets
  Leased assets

  Operating lease rental expense

  Vessels and equipment
  Terminals and berths
  Land and buildings

  Rental outgoings in respect of an

investment property

  Amortisation of intangible assets
  Amortisation of prepayments

  of lease premiums
  Auditors’ remuneration

  Audit
  Non-audit

2014

2013

26,730

26,241

247,301
76,181

323,156
33,865
28,969

15,036
8,310

362

2,974
1,209

226,458
76,426

355,154
34,343
26,069

13,254
8,427

490

3,094
1,573

Operating  lease  rental  expenses  of  US$361.6  million  and  US$24.4  million  (2013:  US$391.0  million  and  US$24.6  million) 
respectively are included in “operating costs” and “other operating expenses” in the consolidated profit and loss account.

12.  finance costs

US$’000

Interest expense

  Bank loans and bank overdrafts

  Wholly repayable within five years
  Not wholly repayable within five years

  Finance lease obligations

  Wholly repayable within five years
  Not wholly repayable within five years

Amount capitalised under assets

Net interest expense

2014

2013

17,243
19,473

12,266
16,895

2,316
19,401

58,433
(4,433)

54,000

1,551
13,730

44,442
(3,423)

41,019

The borrowing costs of the loans to finance the assets under construction (note 16) represent an average capitalisation rate of 
approximately 2.3% (2013: 0.8%) per annum.

116 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13.  taxation

US$’000

Current taxation
  Hong Kong profits tax
  Overseas taxation

Deferred taxation
  Hong Kong profits tax
  Overseas taxation

2014

2013

105
26,043

26,148

43
(2,046)

(2,003)

457
21,360

21,817

–
(1,951)

(1,951)

24,145

19,866

Taxation  has  been  provided  at  the  appropriate  tax  rates  prevailing  in  the  countries  in  which  the  Group  operates  on  the 
estimated assessable profits for the year. These rates range from 11% to 47% (2013: 10% to 47%) and the rate applicable for 
Hong Kong profits tax is 16.5% (2013: 16.5%).

The associated companies in the People’s Republic of China enjoy preferential tax treatment.

The  tax  of  the  Group’s  profit  before  taxation  differs  from  the  theoretical  amount  that  would  arise  using  the  applicable  tax 
rates, being the weighted average of rates prevailing in the territories in which the Group operates, as follows:

US$’000

Profit before taxation
Share of profits of joint ventures
Share of profits of associated companies

Tax calculated at applicable tax rates
Income not subject to tax
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
Tax losses not recognised
Temporary differences not recognised
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses
Utilisation of previously unrecognised temporary differences
Withholding tax
Change in tax rates
Other items

2014

294,583
(4,364)
(15,072)

2013

66,999
(4,001)
(13,703)

275,147

49,295

65,258
(358,254)
315,263
2,584
701
(1,658)
(1,193)
2,515
(121)
(950)

23,769
(235,318)
226,142
3,726
29
(360)
(456)
1,567
542
225

24,145

19,866

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

117

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts14.  earnings per ordinary share

The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share is based on the Group’s profit attributable to equity holders 
of the Company divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.

The basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share are the same since there are no potential dilutive shares.

US$’000

Number of ordinary shares in issue (thousands)

Group’s profit attributable to:
  Equity holders of the Company
  Non-controlling interests

Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the Company (US cents)

15.  Dividends

US$’000

Interim paid: US7.5 cents (2013: nil) per ordinary share
Proposed final of US3.4 cents (2013: US1.88 cents) per ordinary share

2014

2013

625,793

625,793

270,538
(100)

270,438

43.2

2014

46,989
21,277

68,266

47,036
97

47,133

7.5

2013

–
11,765

11,765

The Board of Directors proposes a final dividend in respect of 2014 of US3.4 cents (2013: US1.88 cents) per ordinary share. 
The proposed dividend will be accounted for as an appropriation of retained profit in the year ending 31st December 2015.

118 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts16.  property, plant and equipment

Container 
vessels and 
capitalised 
dry-docking 
costs

assets 
under 
construction

Containers

Chassis

freehold 
land and 
buildings 
outside 
Hong Kong

leasehold 
improvement 
and 
furnitures

Vehicles, 
computer 
and other 
equipment

Buildings 
outside 
Hong Kong

4,635,626
–
21,652
(242,535)
–
272,173
(81,419)

408,221
–
447,502
–
–
(274,373)
–

1,645,525
(8)
339,206
(35,609)
–
–
–

41,393
(21)
40
(17,604)
–
–
–

7,167
(5)
–
–
–
–
–

57,911
(231)
–
–
(4,925)
–
–

50,337
(931)
7,911
(2,729)
(236)
–
–

303,431
(1,003)
17,883
(10,839)
(2,625)
2,200
(204)

total

7,149,611
(2,199)
834,194
(309,316)
(7,786)
–
(81,623)

US$’000

Group
Cost
  At 31st December 2013
  Currency translation adjustments
  Additions
  Disposals
  Disposal of a subsidiary
  Reclassification
  Classified as asset held for sale

  at 31st December 2014

4,605,497

581,350

1,949,114

23,808

7,162

52,755

54,352

308,843

7,582,881

880,063
–
177,393
(89,442)
–
(28,522)

939,492

–
–
–
–
–
–

–

648,317
(7)
117,363
(30,919)
–
–

29,925
(9)
1,344
(10,117)
–
–

2,712
(4)
123
–
–
–

17,755
190
1,817
–
(4,472)
–

40,874
(711)
3,973
(2,659)
(232)
–

209,714
(875)
21,469
(8,433)
(2,624)
(54)

1,829,360
(1,416)
323,482
(141,570)
(7,328)
(28,576)

734,754

21,143

2,831

15,290

41,245

219,197

1,973,952

Accumulated depreciation
  At 31st December 2013
  Currency translation adjustments
  Charge for the year
  Disposals
  Disposal of a subsidiary
  Classified as asset held for sale

  at 31st December 2014

Net book amount
  at 31st December 2014

3,666,005

581,350

1,214,360

  At 31st December 2013

3,755,563

408,221

997,208

Net book amount of leased assets
  at 31st December 2014

1,504,508

103,498

141,339

  At 31st December 2013

1,452,740

–

30,862

2,665

11,468

–

–

4,331

4,455

–

–

37,465

40,156

13,107

9,463

89,646

5,608,929

93,717

5,320,251

–

–

–

–

1,854

1,823

1,751,199

1,485,425

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

119

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
16.  property, plant and equipment (Continued)

Container 
vessels and 
capitalised 
dry-docking 
costs

assets 
under 
construction

Containers

Chassis

freehold 
land and 
buildings 
outside 
Hong Kong

leasehold 
improvement 
and 
furnitures

Vehicles, 
computer 
and other 
equipment

Buildings 
outside 
Hong Kong

total

6,270,554
1,278
975,354
–
(97,575)

283,191
(66)
26,023
–
(5,717)

303,431

7,149,611

195,363
(56)
19,815
(5,408)

1,605,781
580
302,884
(79,885)

209,714

1,829,360

93,717

87,828

1,823

2,055

5,320,251

4,664,773

1,485,425

1,299,743

7,316
(149)
–
–
–

7,167

2,673
(89)
128
–

2,712

4,455

4,643

–

–

56,291
1,620
–
–
–

57,911

15,084
690
1,981
–

17,755

40,156

41,207

–

–

51,980
(157)
3,780
–
(5,266)

50,337

42,319
(7)
3,735
(5,173)

40,874

9,463

9,661

–

–

US$’000

Group
Cost
  At 31st December 2012
  Currency translation adjustments
  Additions
  Reclassification
  Disposals

3,293,465
–
52,344
1,302,077
(12,260)

999,800
–
710,498
(1,302,077)
–

1,494,601
27
182,627
–
(31,730)

83,910
3
82
–
(42,602)

  At 31st December 2013

4,635,626

408,221

1,645,525

41,393

Accumulated depreciation
  At 31st December 2012
  Currency translation adjustments
  Charge for the year
  Disposals

  At 31st December 2013

Net book amount
  At 31st December 2013

  At 31st December 2012

Net book amount of leased assets
  At 31st December 2013

  At 31st December 2012

735,277
–
156,744
(11,958)

880,063

3,755,563

2,558,188

1,452,740

1,198,108

–
–
–
–

–

408,221

999,800

–

–

555,094
31
117,499
(24,307)

648,317

997,208

939,507

30,862

99,580

59,971
11
2,982
(33,039)

29,925

11,468

23,939

–

–

120 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts16.  property, plant and equipment (Continued)

(a)  The  aggregate  net  book  amount  of  assets  pledged  as  security  for  bank  loans  amounts  to  US$2,967.2  million  (2013: 
US$2,799.2  million).  Specific  charges  on  vessels  of  the  Group  include  legal  mortgages  and  assignments  of  insurance 
claims and charter hire income relating to these vessels.

(b)  Interest  costs  of  US$4.4  million  (2013:  US$3.4  million)  during  the  year  were  capitalised  as  part  of  assets  under 

construction.

(c)  Depreciation charge of US$305.9 million (2013: US$287.2 million) for the year has been expensed in “operating costs” 

and US$17.6 million (2013: US$15.7 million) in “other operating expenses”.

(d)  As at 31st December 2014 and 2013, the buildings outside Hong Kong are held under medium-term leasehold land.

The  container  vessels,  containers  and  assets  under  construction  include  the  following  amounts  where  the  Group  is  a  lessee 
under finance leases:

US$’000

Cost – capitalised finance leases
Accumulated depreciation

Net book amount

2014

2013

2,157,312
(407,967)

1,896,714
(413,112)

1,749,345

1,483,602

The  Group  leases  various  container  vessels,  containers  and  assets  under  construction  under  non-cancellable  finance  lease 
agreements. The lease terms are between 5 and 25 years.

17.  investment property

US$’000

Group

Balance at beginning of year
Additions

Fair value gain/(loss)

Balance at end of year

2014

2013

170,000
347

170,347
9,653

180,000

165,000
11,923

176,923
(6,923)

170,000

Background and valuation processes of the Group

The  investment  property,  “Wall  Street  Plaza”,  is  a  commercial  property  located  at  88,  Pine  Street,  New  York,  USA.  The 
property is situated on three parcels of freehold land, two of which are wholly owned by the Group. The freehold interest in 
the third parcel, representing approximately 10% of the site, is owned 50% by the Group and under a long-term lease to the 
Group expiring in the year 2066.

Valuation processes of the Group

The Group’s investment property was valued at 31st December 2014 by an independent professionally qualified valuer who 
holds  a  recognised  relevant  professional  qualification.  The  Group’s  finance  department  reviews  the  valuation  performed  by 
the  independent  valuer  for  financial  reporting  purposes.  This  team  reports  directly  to  the  Chief  Financial  Officer  “CFO”. 
Discussions  of  valuation  processes  and  results  are  held  between  the  CFO,  the  finance  team  and  the  valuer.  As  at  31st 
December 2014, the fair value of the property has been determined by Cushman & Wakefield, Inc.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

121

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts17.  investment property (Continued)

Valuation techniques

Fair  value  of  the  investment  property  is  derived  by  using  the  discounted  cash  flow  method.  The  net  present  value  of  the 
income stream is estimated by applying an appropriate discount rate which reflects the risk profile.

There were no changes to the valuation techniques during the year.

information about fair value measurement using significant unobservable inputs

Discount  rate  is  estimated  by  Cushman  &  Wakefield,  Inc.  based  on  the  risk  profile  of  the  property  being  valued.  If  the 
discount rate is higher, the fair value would be lower. At 31st December 2014, discount rate of 7.5% per annum is used in the 
valuation.

Net operating income growth rate of 3% per annum is used in the valuation. If the growth rate is higher, the fair value would 
be higher.

Prevailing  market  rents  are  estimated  based  on  recent  lettings  of  US$37  per  sq  ft  to  US$40  per  sq  ft,  within  the  subject 
property. If the rents are higher, the fair value would be higher.

18.  prepayments of lease premiums

The Group’s interests in leasehold land and land use rights represent prepaid operating lease payments for leases between 30 
and 50 years and their net book values are analysed as follows:

US$’000

Group

Leasehold land outside Hong Kong

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Amortisation
Disposal of a subsidiary

Balance at end of year

2014

2013

9,109

9,543
(29)
(362)
(43)

9,109

9,543

9,793
240
(490)
–

9,543

Amortisation  of  US$0.4  million  (2013:  US$0.5  million)  is  included  in  “other  operating  expenses”  in  the  consolidated  profit 
and loss account.

19.  Subsidiaries

US$’000

Company

Unlisted shares, at cost less provision

Non-current
Amount due to a subsidiary

Current
Amounts due from subsidiaries

Amounts due to subsidiaries

2014

2013

169,487

169,487

1,053,229

1,133,229

2,175,071

2,194,651

261,086

249,644

The amounts  due  from  and  to  subsidiaries are interest free, unsecured and have no specific terms of repayment, except for 
amount payable of US$1,053.2 million (2013: US$1,133.2 million) which is not repayable within one year.

Particulars of the principal subsidiaries at 31st December 2014 are shown on pages 145 to 154.

122 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts20.  Joint ventures

US$’000

Group

Share of net assets

The Group’s share of assets, liabilities and results of the joint ventures are summarised below:

US$’000

Non-current assets
Current assets
Current liabilities

Share of net assets

Income
Expenses

Share of profits of joint ventures

Share of total comprehensive income of joint ventures

Particulars of the joint ventures at 31st December 2014 are shown on page 154.

21.  associated companies

US$’000

Group

Share of net assets

2014

2013

9,011

8,674

2014

55
10,052
(1,096)

9,011

11,325
(6,961)

4,364

4,334

2013

3
9,477
(806)

8,674

10,363
(6,362)

4,001

4,241

2014

2013

152,499

134,697

The Group’s share of assets, liabilities and results of the associated companies are summarised as follows:

US$’000

Non-current assets
Current assets
Non-current liabilities
Current liabilities

Share of net assets

Income
Expenses

Share of profits of associated companies

Share of total comprehensive income of associated companies

Particulars of the associated companies at 31st December 2014 are shown on page 154.

2014

173,767
13,147
(14,623)
(19,792)

152,499

47,746
(32,674)

15,072

14,547

2013

156,731
13,382
(17,681)
(17,735)

134,697

42,352
(28,649)

13,703

17,233

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

123

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
22.  intangible assets

US$’000

Group

At 1st January 2013
  Cost
  Accumulated amortisation

  Net book amount

Year ended 31st December 2013
  Opening net book amount
  Additions
  Amortisation

  Closing net book amount

At 31st December 2013
  Cost
  Accumulated amortisation

  Net book amount

Year ended 31st December 2014
  Opening net book amount
  Additions
  Amortisation
  Disposal of a subsidiary

  Closing net book amount

at 31st December 2014
  Cost
  Accumulated amortisation

  Net book amount

Computer software
development costs

130,681
(91,765)

38,916

38,916
12,174
(8,427)

42,663

142,855
(100,192)

42,663

42,663
14,228
(8,310)
(3)

48,578

157,055
(108,477)

48,578

Computer software development costs mainly comprise internally generated capitalised software development costs.

Amortisation  of  US$8.3  million  (2013:  US$8.4  million)  is  included  in  “other  operating  expenses”  in  the  consolidated  profit 
and loss account.

124 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts23.  Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities)

US$’000

Group

Deferred taxation assets
Deferred taxation liabilities

2014

2013

3,887
(53,655)

4,072
(55,557)

(49,768)

(51,485)

Deferred  taxation  assets  and  liabilities  are  offset  when  there  is  a  legal  right  to  set  off  current  taxation  assets  with  current 
taxation  liabilities  and  when  the  deferred  taxation  relates  to  the  same  taxation  authority.  The  above  assets/(liabilities) 
shown in the consolidated balance sheet are determined after appropriate offsetting of the relevant amounts and include the 
following:

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets to be recovered after more than twelve months

2014

2,121

2013

357

Deferred taxation liabilities to be settled after more than twelve months

(53,553)

(53,704)

Deferred taxation is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using applicable tax rates prevailing 
in the countries in which the Group operates. The movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities (prior to offsetting of 
balances within the same taxation jurisdiction) during the year were as follows:

US$’000

Deferred taxation assets

At 31st December 2012
Currency translation adjustments
(Charged)/credited to consolidated
  profit and loss account
Credited to other comprehensive income

At 31st December 2013
Currency translation adjustments
(Charged)/credited to consolidated
  profit and loss account
Charged to other comprehensive income

accelerated
accounting
depreciation

pensions

revenue
expenditure

tax
losses

1,185
(8)

(84)
–

1,093
18

(43)
–

–
(2)

(937)
2,819

1,880
(83)

(232)
(115)

9,341
53

(1,055)
–

8,339
(62)

562
–

3,168
(70)

809
–

3,907
(42)

(2,495)
–

total

13,694
(27)

(1,267)
2,819

15,219
(169)

(2,208)
(115)

at 31st December 2014

1,068

1,450

8,839

1,370

12,727

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

125

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
23.  Deferred taxation assets/(liabilities) (Continued)

US$’000

Deferred taxation liabilities

At 31st December 2012
Currency translation adjustments
(Credited)/charged to consolidated
  profit and loss account
Charged to other
  comprehensive income

At 31st December 2013
Currency translation adjustments
(Credited)/charged to consolidated
  profit and loss account

at 31st December 2014

accelerated
tax
depreciation

revaluation
of investment
property

pensions

revenue
expenditure

14,992
(5)

50,630
–

(3,014)

(1,244)

–

11,973
2

(4,473)

7,502

–

49,386
–

4,167

53,553

138
19

(516)

359

–
–

–

–

3,781
8

1,556

–

5,345
–

(3,905)

1,440

total

69,541
22

(3,218)

359

66,704
2

(4,211)

62,495

Deferred  taxation  assets  of  US$28.9  million  (2013:  US$33.1  million)  arising  from  unused  tax  losses  of  US$122.2  million 
(2013:  US$132.8  million)  have  not  been  recognised  in  the  consolidated  accounts.  Unused  tax  losses  of  US$107.1  million 
(2013:  US$109.6  million)  have  no  expiry  date  and  the  remaining  balance  will  expire  at  various  dates  up  to  and  including 
2034.

Deferred taxation liabilities of US$31.4 million (2013: US$30.6 million) on temporary differences associated with investments 
in  subsidiaries  of  US$180.9  million  (2013:  US$189.4  million)  have  not  been  recognised  as  there  is  no  current  intention  of 
remitting the retained profit of these subsidiaries to the holding companies in the foreseeable future.

24.  pension and retirement benefits

The  Group  operates  a  number  of  defined  benefit  and  defined  contribution  pension  and  retirement  schemes  in  the  main 
countries  in  which  the  Group  operates.  The  total  charges  to  the  consolidated  profit  and  loss  account  for  the  year  were 
US$27.5 million (2013: US$24.6 million).

Defined contribution schemes

The  principal  defined  contribution  schemes  are  operated  in  Hong  Kong  and  the  USA.  These  schemes  cover  approximately 
77%  of  the  Group’s  employees.  Contributions  to  the  defined  contribution  schemes,  all  the  assets  of  which  are  held  in  trust 
funds  separate  from  the  Group,  are  based  on  a  percentage  of  an  employee’s  salary,  depending  upon  the  length  of  service  of 
the employee, but the Group’s contributions to certain schemes may be reduced by contributions forfeited by those employees 
who leave the schemes prior to vesting fully in those contributions.

126 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
24.  pension and retirement benefits (Continued)

Defined contribution schemes (Continued)

In  2008,  the  Group  terminated  the  defined  benefit  scheme  and  post-retirement  medical  plans  in  the  USA  at  the  request  of 
the labour unions. All the pension assets and obligations were transferred to a defined benefit multi-employer pension plan 
and a defined benefit multi-employer post-retirement medical plan (the “Plans”) together with other industry players. Since 
the Group is not able to identify its share of the underlying financial position and performance of the Plans with sufficient 
reliability for accounting purposes, accordingly the Plans are accounted for by the Group as defined contribution plans.

The charges for the defined contribution schemes to the consolidated profit and loss account during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Group

Contributions to the schemes
Forfeitures utilised

Defined benefit schemes

The amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are as follows:

US$’000

Group

Net Scheme liabilities

Net scheme liabilities

2014

2013

26,841
(579)

26,262

24,022
(511)

23,511

2014

2013

(1,665)

(2,409)

The  principal  defined  benefit  scheme  is  operated  in  the  United  Kingdom  which  was  valued  by  Barnett  Waddingham  LLP. 
The defined benefit scheme (the “Scheme”) cover approximately 1% of the Group’s employees and are funded. The assets of 
the Scheme are held in trust funds separate from the Group. Contributions to the Scheme are assessed in accordance with the 
advice  of  qualified  actuaries  in  compliance  with  local  practice  and  regulations.  The  actuarial  assumptions  used  to  calculate 
the projected benefit obligations of the Group’s pension schemes vary according to the economic conditions of the countries 
in which they are situated.

The net scheme liabilities recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are determined as follows:

US$’000

Fair value of plan assets
Present value of funded obligations

Deficit of funded plans

2014

252,656
(254,321)

2013

244,639
(247,048)

(1,665)

(2,409)

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

127

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
 
 
 
24.  pension and retirement benefits (Continued)

Net scheme liabilities (Continued)

Movements in the fair value of the plan assets of the schemes during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Interest income on plan assets
Remeasurement gains/(losses) on assets
Contributions from the Group
Contributions from the plan members
Benefits paid

Balance at end of year

Movements in the present value of obligations of the schemes during the year are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Current service cost
Interest expense
Experience (gains)/losses on liabilities
Gains from changes to demographic assumptions
Losses/(gains) from changes to financial assumptions
Contributions from the plan members
Benefits paid
Settlements

Balance at end of year

The charges of the schemes recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account are as follows:

US$’000

Current service cost
Interest expense
Interest income on plan assets

Net expense recognised for the year

2014

244,639
(13,755)
9,929
22,375
3,591
99
(14,222)

252,656

2014

247,048
(13,911)
1,201
9,960
(1,047)
(1,050)
26,345
99
(14,222)
(102)

254,321

2014

1,201
9,960
(9,929)

1,232

2013

250,128
5,131
10,221
(8,907)
3,867
118
(15,919)

244,639

2013

240,043
4,827
1,553
9,736
9,602
(2,715)
(168)
118
(15,919)
(29)

247,048

2013

1,553
9,736
(10,221)

1,068

Charges of US$1.2 million (2013: charges of US$1.1 million) were included in “other operating expenses” in the consolidated 
profit and loss account.

128 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts24.  pension and retirement benefits (Continued)

Net scheme liabilities (Continued)

The main actuarial assumptions made for the schemes were as follows:

Discount rate
Inflation rate
Expected future salary increases
Expected future pension increases

Actual return on plan assets (US$’000)

2014

2013

3%
3%
3%
3%

4%
3%
4%
3%

34,232

1,253

At 31st December 2014, if discount rate had been 0.2% higher/lower, with all other variables held constant, the fair value of 
the funded obligations would have been US$7.4 million lower/US$7.7 million higher. At 31st December 2014, if inflation rate 
had been 0.1% higher/lower, with all other variables held constant, the fair value of the funded obligations would have been 
US$2.4  million  higher/US$2.4  million  lower.  The  sensitivities  show  the  likely  effect  of  a  single  assumption  being  adjusted 
while holding all other assumptions constant.

Plan assets of the schemes comprise the following:

US$’000

Equity
Debt
Others

2014

2013

–
165,243
87,413

252,656

0%
65%
35%

100%

40,023
163,150
41,466

244,639

16%
67%
17%

100%

The  current  agreed  contribution  rate  is  29.1%  of  contributory  salaries  and  the  estimated  duration  of  the  Scheme’s  liability 
was 14 years. Expected normal and deficit reduction contributions to the Scheme for the year ending 31st December 2015 is 
US$3.6 million.

Through its defined benefit pension plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks as follows:

• 

• 

• 

Investment risk. The Scheme holds investments in asset classes, such as equities, which have volatile market values and 
while these assets are expected to provide real returns over the long-term, the short-term volatility can cause additional 
funding to be required if deficit emerges.

Interest rate and market risk. The Scheme’s liabilities are assessed using market yields on high quality corporate bonds 
to  discount  the  liabilities.  As  the  Scheme  holds  assets  such  as  equities,  the  value  of  the  assets  and  liabilities  may  not 
move in the same way.

Inflation risk. A significant proportion of the benefits under the Scheme are linked to inflation. Although the Scheme’s 
assets are expected to provide a good hedge against inflation over the long term, movements over the short-term could 
lead to deficits emerging.

• 

Longevity and other demographic risk. If members live longer than assumed a deficit will emerge in the Scheme.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

129

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts25.  restricted bank balances

US$’000

Group

Non-current
Current

Restricted bank balances

2014

2013

54,168
413

54,581

24,731
1,441

26,172

As  at  31st  December  2014,  the  restricted  bank  balances  of  US$54.6  million  (2013:  US$26.2  million)  are  funds  pledged  as 
securities for banking facilities or required to be utilised for specific purposes.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s restricted bank balances are mainly denominated in US dollar (2013: US dollar).

The credit quality of restricted bank balances by reference to Standard & Poor’s, and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

Group

AA
A
BBB

Company

2014

2013

387
1,027
53,167

54,581

47
1,475
24,650

26,172

Restricted bank balances – current

344

337

26.  available-for-sale financial assets

US$’000

Group

Balance at beginning of year
Currency translation adjustments
Additions
Disposals
Change in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income

Balance at end of year

Available-for-sale financial assets include the following:

US$’000

Listed equity securities
  Hong Kong
  Overseas

Market value of listed equity securities
Unlisted equity security
Others

130 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

2014

2013

149,667
(6)
32,272
(10)
(42,287)

139,636

154,463
1,161
–
(116)
(5,841)

149,667

2014

2013

67,395
9

67,404
71,500
732

139,636

37,512
9

37,521
111,400
746

149,667

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts26.  available-for-sale financial assets (Continued)

The carrying amounts of the Group’s available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

Renminbi
Hong Kong dollar
Other currencies

27.  Held-to-maturity investments

US$’000

Group

Listed debt securities
  Hong Kong
  Overseas

Less: Current portion included in current assets

Market value

Movements in held-to-maturity investments are as follows:

US$’000

Balance at beginning of year
Additions
Redemptions on maturity
Amortisation
Currency translation adjustments

Balance at end of year

2014

138,929
546
161

139,636

2013

148,955
539
173

149,667

2014

2013

165,997
79,830

245,827
(24,792)

221,035

260,750

2014

254,572
2,737
(8,878)
(204)
(2,400)

245,827

166,169
88,403

254,572
–

254,572

265,025

2013

253,956
–
–
(174)
790

254,572

The carrying amounts of held-to-maturity investments are mainly denominated in US dollar (2013: US dollar). 

The  credit  quality  of  held-to-maturity  investments  by  reference  to  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s  credit  ratings  is  as 
follows:

US$’000

AAA
AA
A
BBB
BB
Non-ranking

2014

9,530
19,367
85,917
77,971
6,206
46,836

2013

9,536
19,339
72,514
95,522
7,277
50,384

245,827

254,572

The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying amount of held-to-maturity investments.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

131

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts28.  other non-current assets

US$’000

Group

Other deposit
Others

29.  inventories

US$’000

Group

Bunker
Consumable stores

2014

2013

11,825
7,885

19,710

11,825
11,103

22,928

2014

2013

113,990
14,662

128,652

136,345
13,713

150,058

The  cost  of  inventories  recognised  as  expense  and  included  in  “operating  costs”  amounts  to  US$1,014.0  million  (2013: 
US$1,126.5 million).

2014

2013

226,750
141,228
10,704

378,682
(10,704)

367,978
89,299
106,718
10,522

574,517

231,041
124,604
7,850

363,495
(7,850)

355,645
75,718
97,317
8,602

537,282

30.  Debtors and prepayments

US$’000

Group

Trade receivables
– Fully performing
– Past due but not impaired
– Impaired and provided for

Less: provision for impairment

Trade receivables – net
Other debtors
Other prepayments
Utility and other deposits

132 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts30.  Debtors and prepayments (Continued)

The  credit  quality  of  trade  receivables  net  of  provision  for  impairment,  by  reference  to  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s 
credit ratings (if available) or to historical information about counterparty default rates is as follows:

US$’000

Group

Counterparties with external credit rating
A
BBB
BB

Counterparties without external credit rating
Group 1
Group 2
Group 3

2014

2013

18,592
15,026
4,852

38,470

16,851
312,154
503

329,508

367,978

17,105
4,674
7,753

29,532

36,958
288,794
361

326,113

355,645

Notes:

Group 1 – new customers (less than 6 months).

Group 2 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with no defaults in the past.

Group 3 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with some defaults in the past.

Trade  receivables  are  normally  due  for  payment  on  presentation  of  invoices  or  granted  with  an  approved  credit  period 
ranging mainly from 10 to 30 days. Debtors with overdue balances are requested to settle all outstanding balances before any 
further credit is granted.

The majority of past due but not impaired trade receivables are less than three months old. The ageing analysis of the Group’s 
trade receivables, net of provision for impairment, prepared in accordance with the due dates of invoices, is as follows:

US$’000

Below one month
Two to three months
Four to six months
Over six months

2014

329,896
27,954
8,506
1,622

367,978

2013

327,629
21,812
4,903
1,301

355,645

There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a large number of internationally 
dispersed customers. Other debtors are fully performing.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

133

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts30.  Debtors and prepayments (Continued)

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Canadian dollar
Euro
Japanese yen
Hong Kong dollar
Renminbi
Pound sterling
Australian dollar
Other currencies

Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:

US$’000

Group

Balance at beginning of year
Provision
Write off
Unused amounts reversed

Balance at end of year

2014

128,368
15,720
52,902
13,055
6,703
53,034
16,492
21,927
59,777

367,978

2013

117,136
17,013
50,448
13,090
11,305
45,402
14,713
25,813
60,725

355,645

2014

2013

7,850
3,516
(617)
(45)

10,704

7,365
3,825
(2,288)
(1,052)

7,850

The provision for impairment has been included in “other operating expenses” in the consolidated profit and loss account.

31.  amount due from an associated company

The amount receivable is unsecured, interest free and has no specific repayment terms.

32.  amount due from a joint venture

The amount receivable is unsecured, interest free and has no specific repayment terms.

33.  portfolio investments

US$’000

Group

Listed equity securities
  Hong Kong
  Overseas

Market value of listed equity securities
Unit trust
Listed debt securities
  Hong Kong
  Overseas
Unlisted debt securities
  Overseas

2014

2013

17,297
–

17,297
11,690

149,777
44,659

22,856
1,466

24,322
6,202

133,578
53,736

–

148

223,423

217,986

The carrying amounts of the Group’s portfolio investments are mainly denominated in US dollar (2013: US dollar).

134 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts33.  portfolio investments (Continued)

The credit quality of listed debt securities by reference to Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

Group

AA
A
BBB
Non-ranking

2014

2013

–
24,286
91,999
78,151

2,134
57,293
68,059
59,828

194,436

187,314

The fair value of all equity securities and debt securities are based on their current bid prices in active markets.

34.  Derivative financial instruments

US$’000

Group

assets
Non-current assets

Interest rate swap contracts

liabilities
Non-current liabilities

Interest rate swap contract

  Foreign exchange forward contract

Current liability

Interest rate swap contract

2014

2013

2,888

4,407

–
(2,949)

(2,949)

(406)

(3,355)

(2,022)
(2,706)

(4,728)

–

(4,728)

The  credit  quality  of  derivative  financial  assets  by  reference  to  the  Standard  &  Poor’s  and/or  Moody’s  credit  rating  is  as 
follows:

US$’000

AA
A

2014

377
2,511

2,888

2013

614
3,793

4,407

(a)  foreign exchange forward contract

The notional principal amount of the outstanding foreign exchange forward contract at 31st December 2014 was US$5.4 
million (2013: US$23.4 million).

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

135

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
34.  Derivative financial instruments (Continued)

(b)  interest rate swap contracts

The  notional  principal  amounts  of  the  outstanding  interest  rate  swap  contracts  at  31st  December  2014  were  US$92.4 
million (2013: US$110.5 million).

US$’000

Company

Non-current liability

Interest rate swap contract

Current liability

Interest rate swap contract

2014

2013

–

(2,022)

(406)

–

The  notional  principal  amount  of  the  outstanding  interest  rate  swap  contract  at  31st  December  2014  was  US$50.0  million 
(2013: US$50.0 million).

35.  Cash and bank balances

US$’000

Group

Short-term bank deposits
  – Maturing within three months from the date of placement
Cash at bank and in hand

Short-term bank deposits
  – Maturing more than three months from the date of placement

2014

2013

1,336,547
606,276

1,221,764
498,452

1,942,823

1,720,216

223,091

192,130

2,165,914

1,912,346

The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash and bank balances are mainly denominated in US dollar (2013: US dollar).

The credit quality of cash at bank and in hand and short-term bank deposits by reference to Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and/
or Fitch’s credit ratings is as follows:

US$’000

Group

AA
A
BBB
BB
B
Others

US$’000

Company

Short-term bank deposits
  – Maturing within three months from the date of placement
Cash at bank and in hand

Total cash and bank balances

136 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

2014

2013

696,866
1,248,470
206,074
9,835
1,492
3,177

259,924
1,478,202
164,968
5,185
605
3,462

2,165,914

1,912,346

2014

2013

38
11,623

11,661

39,003
2,378

41,381

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
36.  Share capital

US$’000

Authorised:
  900,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.10 each
  65,000,000 convertible redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each
  50,000,000 redeemable preferred shares of US$1 each

Issued and fully paid:
  At 31st December 2013 and 2014

37.  reserves

Group

2014

2013

90,000
65,000
50,000

90,000
65,000
50,000

205,000

205,000

Number of
shares
(thousands)

ordinary
shares
US$’000

625,793

62,579

US$’000

Balance at 31st December 2012
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 

for the year

Transactions with owners
  2012 final dividend

Balance at 31st December 2013
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 

for the year

Transactions with owners
  2013 final dividend
  2014 interim dividend

Contributed
surplus

Capital
redemption
reserve

available-for-sale
financial assets
revaluation reserve

foreign
exchange
translation
reserve

88,547

4,696

117,614

58,872

retained
profit

3,977,050

total

4,419,236

–

–

–

–

(5,953)

6,062

33,870

33,979

–

–

(44,987)

(44,987)

Share
premium

172,457

–

–

172,457

88,547

4,696

111,661

64,934

3,965,933

4,408,228

–

–
–

–

–
–

–

–
–

(42,287)

(3,534)

268,550

222,729

–
–

–
–

(11,795)
(46,989)

(11,795)
(46,989)

Balance at 31st December 2014

172,457

88,547

4,696

69,374

61,400

4,175,699

4,572,173

Company

US$’000

Share Contributed
surplus

premium

Capital
redemption
reserve

retained
profit

total

Balance at 31st December 2012
Total comprehensive loss for the year
Transactions with owners
  2012 final dividend

Balance at 31st December 2013
Total comprehensive income for the year
Transactions with owners
  2013 final dividend
  2014 interim dividend

172,457
–

–

172,457
–

–
–

88,547
–

–

88,547
–

–
–

4,696
–

736,486
(137)

1,002,186
(137)

–

(44,987)

(44,987)

4,696
–

–
–

691,362
79,712

(11,795)
(46,989)

957,062
79,712

(11,795)
(46,989)

Balance at 31st December 2014

172,457

88,547

4,696

712,290

977,990

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

137

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
37.  reserves (Continued)

The  profit  attributable  to  shareholders  for  the  year  is  dealt  with  in  the  accounts  of  the  Company  to  the  extent  of  US$79.7 
million (2013: loss of US$0.1 million).

Under  the  Companies  Act  of  Bermuda  and  the  Bye-laws  of  the  Company,  the  contributed  surplus  is  also  distributable. 
Accordingly,  total  distributable  reserves  of  the  Company  amount  to  US$800.8  million  as  at  31st  December  2014  (2013: 
US$779.9 million).

2014

2013

2,015,399
100,447
1,479,779

1,881,785
100,447
1,283,323

3,595,625

3,265,555

1

314

256,389
–
132,487

168,588
9,908
89,500

388,877

268,310

3,984,502

3,533,865

38.  Borrowings

US$’000

Group

Non-current
Bank loans
– Secured
– Unsecured
Finance lease obligations

Current
Bank overdrafts, unsecured
Bank loans
– Secured
– Unsecured
Finance lease obligations

Total borrowings

138 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts38.  Borrowings (Continued)

The maturity of borrowings is as follows:

US$’000

As at 31st December 2014
  2015
  2016
  2017
  2018
  2019
  2020 onwards

Wholly repayable within five years
Not wholly repayable within five years

As at 31st December 2013
  2014
  2015
  2016
  2017
  2018
  2019 onwards

Wholly repayable within five years
Not wholly repayable within five years

finance leases

Bank
loans

Bank
overdrafts

present
value

Minimum
payments

256,389
244,081
243,981
260,028
376,690
991,066

2,372,235

858,401
1,513,834

2,372,235

178,496
167,349
208,184
208,072
247,666
1,150,961

2,160,728

631,689
1,529,039

2,160,728

1
–
–
–
–
–

1

1
–

1

314
–
–
–
–
–

314

314
–

314

132,487
176,745
297,488
237,502
93,274
674,770

151,733
194,592
322,366
251,331
104,493
764,534

1,612,266

1,789,049

687,614
924,652

1,612,266

89,500
186,551
124,710
258,141
103,324
610,597

101,395
197,658
135,941
276,959
111,918
690,005

1,372,823

1,513,876

593,271
779,552

1,372,823

Borrowings are secured by property, plant and equipment of the Group (note 16(a)).

The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows:

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations

2014

US$

1.6%
1.4%

£

–
0.7%

2013

US$

1.6%
1.0%

£

–
0.6%

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

139

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
 
38.  Borrowings (Continued)

The carrying amounts and fair values of the non-current borrowings are as follows:

US$’000

Bank loans
Finance lease obligations

Carrying amounts

fair values

2014

2,115,846
1,479,779

2013

1,982,232
1,283,323

2014

2,116,610
1,489,738

2013

1,984,035
1,275,871

3,595,625

3,265,555

3,606,348

3,259,906

The fair values are based on cash flows discounted using rates based on the borrowing rates ranging from 2.1% to 4.0% (2013: 
1.7% to 4.8%).

The carrying amounts of short-term borrowings approximate their fair values.

The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Pound sterling
Other currencies

2014

3,966,862
17,640
–

2013

3,510,065
23,502
298

3,984,502

3,533,865

The  fixed  interest  rate  borrowings  of  the  Group  as  at  31st  December  2014  amounted  to  US$278.9  million  (2013:  US$152.0 
million). The remaining borrowings of US$3,705.6 million (2013: US$3,381.9 million) were subject to floating interest rates.

39.  Creditors and accruals

US$’000

Group

Trade payables
Other creditors
Accrued expenses
Deferred revenue

2014

2013

238,149
114,675
509,265
80,615

942,704

303,829
76,741
455,583
68,471

904,624

2013

171,269
122,463
6,102
3,995

303,829

The ageing analysis of the Group’s trade payables, prepared in accordance with the dates of invoices, is as follows:

US$’000

Below one month
Two to three months
Four to six months
Over six months

2014

162,147
58,567
7,929
9,506

238,149

140 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts39.  Creditors and accruals (Continued)

The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade payables are denominated in the following currencies:

US$’000

US dollar
Canadian dollar
Euro
Japanese yen
Hong Kong dollar
Renminbi
Other currencies

40.  amounts due to joint ventures

The amounts payable are unsecured, interest free and have no specific repayment terms.

41.  Commitments

Group

(a)  Capital commitments – property, plant and equipment

US$’000

Contracted but not provided for
Authorised but not contracted for

(b)  operating lease commitments

2014

120,246
10,100
20,118
19,694
17,182
21,170
29,639

238,149

2013

166,848
13,976
27,877
26,061
3,311
22,168
43,588

303,829

2014

528,983
82,648

2013

722,055
333,750

611,631

1,055,805

The future aggregate minimum lease rental expenses under non-cancellable operating leases are payable in the following 
years:

US$’000

At 31st December 2014
  2015
  2016
  2017
  2018
  2019
  2020 onwards

At 31st December 2013
  2014
  2015
  2016
  2017
  2018
  2019 onwards

Vessels and
equipment

land and
buildings

189,333
110,329
100,080
70,455
54,921
143,044

668,162

211,998
98,058
69,504
69,273
68,788
199,048

716,669

28,826
24,262
16,563
6,856
4,913
14,436

95,856

26,914
14,190
11,099
7,213
3,997
15,520

78,933

total

218,159
134,591
116,643
77,311
59,834
157,480

764,018

238,912
112,248
80,603
76,486
72,785
214,568

795,602

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

141

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts41.  Commitments (Continued)

Group (Continued)

(b)  operating lease commitments (Continued)

The  Group  entered  into  the  Preferential  Assignment  Agreement  (the  “Agreement”)  with  the  Port  of  Long  Beach 
(“POLB”)  for  the  use  of  the  Middle  Harbor  Terminal  (the  “Terminal”)  in  Long  Beach,  California  USA  on  30th  April 
2012.  The  term  of  the  Agreement  is  40  years  commencing  on  the  1st  of  July  2011.  On  27th  March  2013,  the  Group 
signed  the  First  Amendment  to  Preferential  Assignment  Agreement  (the  “Amendment”)  with  POLB,  which  has 
amended certain terms within the Agreement and has altered the expected guaranteed minimum annual compensation 
to be made for the relevant period of the lease term.

The guaranteed minimum annual compensation is computed based on the guaranteed minimum annual compensation 
per  acreage  (ranging  from  US$180,000  to  US$270,000  in  the  first  5  years  of  the  lease)  multiplied  by  the  number 
of  acreages  of  the  Terminal  delivered,  which  is  subject  to  mutual  agreement  between  the  Group  and  POLB  along 
the  Terminal  construction  and  based  on  the  milestones  set  out  in  the  Agreement.  The  construction  is  expected  to 
be  completed  by  2019  and  the  estimated  number  of  acreages  of  the  Terminal  upon  completion  is  estimated  to  be 
approximately 304.7 acreages. As of 31st December 2014, the acreages of the Terminal available is 90.8 acres. The Group 
and POLB will renegotiate the guaranteed minimum annual compensation per acre every 5 years which will not be less 
than the highest guaranteed minimum annual compensation in the previous 5 years.

(c)  operating lease rental receivable

The  future  aggregate  minimum  lease  rental  income  under  non-cancellable  operating  leases  are  receivable  in  the 
following years:

Vessels and
equipment

land and
buildings

80,526
45,485
–
–
–
–

23,613
22,448
21,394
15,511
12,805
26,626

126,011

122,397

96,701
80,300
45,485
–
–
–

24,857
22,793
21,621
20,567
14,684
37,778

222,486

142,300

total

104,139
67,933
21,394
15,511
12,805
26,626

248,408

121,558
103,093
67,106
20,567
14,684
37,778

364,786

US$’000

As at 31st December 2014
  2015
  2016
  2017
  2018
  2019
  2020 onwards

As at 31st December 2013
  2014
  2015
  2016
  2017
  2018
  2019 onwards

142 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts42.  financial guarantees

Group

The Group has not given any corporate guarantee as at 31st December 2014 (2013: nil).

Company

(a)  The  Company  has  given  corporate  guarantees  of  approximately  US$4,118.8  million  (2013:  US$3,582.0  million)  for 
its  subsidiaries.  As  at  31st  December  2014,  the  amounts  utilised  by  the  subsidiaries  were  US$3,920.5  million  (2013: 
US$3,534.4 million).

(b)  The Company has given corporate guarantees for its subsidiaries in respect of future payment of operating lease rentals 

amounting to US$265.4 million (2013: US$304.9 million).

(c)  The  Company  has  given  corporate  guarantees  of  approximately  US$34.8  million  (2013:  US$201.0  million)  to  its 

subsidiaries in respect of the instalments of shipbuilding contracts.

The Directors consider that the subsidiaries are financially resourceful in settling the obligations.

43.  Notes to consolidated cash flow statement

(a)  reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations

US$’000

Operating profit
Interest income from banks
Interest income from portfolio and held-to-maturity investments
Dividend income from portfolio investments
Depreciation
Fair value (gain)/loss from portfolio investments
Fair value (gain)/loss from an investment property
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Dividend income from available-for-sale financial assets
Distribution from available-for-sale financial assets
Gain on disposal of a subsidiary
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets
Amortisation of intangible assets
Amortisation of prepayments of lease premiums
Net gain on derivative financial instruments

Operating profit before working capital changes
Decrease in inventories
Increase in debtors and prepayments
Increase in creditors and accruals
Change in net pension liabilities
Settlement of derivative financial instruments

Cash generated from operations

2014

329,147
(17,714)
(19,974)
(810)
323,482
(6,284)
(9,653)
(9,697)
(40,175)
(3,660)
(4,964)
(27)
8,310
362
(1,295)

547,048
21,397
(41,630)
27,598
(2,617)
1,441

553,237

2013

90,314
(15,547)
(18,071)
(686)
302,884
9,828
6,923
(9,032)
(7,906)
(2,323)
–
(112)
8,427
490
(1,820)

363,369
3,727
(8,715)
120,221
(3,132)
1,745

477,215

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

143

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts43.  Notes to consolidated cash flow statement (Continued)

(b)  Disposal of a subsidiary

US$’000

Net assets disposed
  Property, plant and equipment
  Prepayments of lease premiums

Intangible assets
Inventories

  Cash and bank balances
  Debtors and prepayments
  Amounts receivable from group companies
  Creditors and accruals

Non-controlling interests
Release of reserve upon disposal
Gain on disposal, net of tax
Taxation

Cash consideration

Net cash inflow arising on disposal:
Cash consideration
Less: Cash and bank balances disposed

Net proceeds

(c)  Major non-cash transactions

2014

2013

458
43
3
9
3,718
4,532
5,861
(462)

14,162
(5,665)
(4,027)
4,964
436

9,870

9,870
(3,718)

6,152

–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

–
–
–
–
–

–

–
–

–

During  the  year,  major  non-cash  transactions  included  the  inception  of  finance  leases  of  US$465.5  million  (2013: 
US$409.7 million)  and  dividend  received from available-for-sale financial assets of US$32.3 million (2013: US$ nil) in 
form of shares.

(d)  analysis of cash and cash equivalents

US$’000

2014

2013

Bank balances and deposits maturing within three months from the date of placement
Bank overdrafts

1,942,823
(1)

1,720,216
(314)

1,942,822

1,719,902

44.  asset held for sale

Subsequent to the year ended 31st December 2014, the Group entered into an agreement with a third party to dispose of its 
interest in a container vessel, for a consideration of US$53.6 million. The transaction is expected to be completed in March 
2015.

45.  approval of accounts

The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 6th March 2015.

144 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 
 
Name of Company

Subsidiaries 
Cargo System Warehouse and
  Transport Ltd.

Consolidated Leasing &
  Terminals, Inc.

Containers No. 1 Inc.

Containers No. 2 Inc.

Dongguan Orient Container
  Co. Ltd.

Far Gain Investment Ltd.

Glory Top Investment Ltd.

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Hai Dong Transportation Co. Ltd.

100

Kenwake Ltd.

Laronda Company Ltd.

LBCT LLC

100
100

100

100

Long Beach Container Terminal, Inc.

100

Loyalton Shipping Limited

Maritime Delivery Services Inc.

100

100

effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

3,000 ordinary shares
HK$300,000

Investment holding and
container transportation

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

1 common stock 
US$100

Investment holding,
equipment owning
and leasing

USA

USA

10,000 ordinary shares
US$100,000

Equipment owning
and leasing

Marshall Islands Worldwide

10,000 ordinary shares
US$100,000

Equipment owning
and leasing

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Registered capital
HK$29,000,000

10,000 ordinary shares
HK$10,000

10,000 ordinary shares 
HK$10,000

100,000 ordinary shares
HK$100,000

1,600,000 ordinary shares
520,000 5% cumulative
preference shares 
£2,120,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Capital of 
US$500,000

5,000 common stock
US$500,000

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

1,000 common stock 
US$10,000

Container depot

China *

China

Investment holding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Portfolio investment

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Container transport

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Investment holding 

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

Portfolio investment

British Virgin
Islands

Worldwide

Terminal operating

USA

Maintenance of union office
workers and provision of
labour services

USA

USA

USA

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Trucking service

USA

USA

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

145

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies andJoint Ventures as at 31st December 2014effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Luxembourg

Worldwide

Ship owning

Liberia †

Worldwide

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

100 ordinary shares 
US$25,000

100 ordinary shares 
US$25,000

600 ordinary shares
US$150,000

600 ordinary shares
US$150,000

600 ordinary shares
US$150,000

600 ordinary shares
US$150,000

100 ordinary shares
US$25,000

100 ordinary shares
US$25,000

100 ordinary shares
US$25,000

100 ordinary shares
US$25,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Name of Company

Subsidiaries  (Continued)
Newcontainer 2002 Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer 2004 Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer 2010 Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer 2011 Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 36 (Luxembourg)
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 37 (Luxembourg)
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 40 (Luxembourg)
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 41 (Luxembourg)
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 42 (Luxembourg)
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 43 (Luxembourg)
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 45 (Luxembourg)
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 48 (Luxembourg)
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 49 (Luxembourg)
  Shipping S.à r.l.

Newcontainer No. 50 (Luxembourg)
  Shipping S.à r.l.

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

Newcontainer No. 5 Shipping Inc.

100

146 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures as at 31st December 2014Name of Company

Subsidiaries  (Continued)
Newcontainer No. 6 Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 9 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 10 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 15 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 31 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 32 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 51 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 52 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 53 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 55 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 56 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 57 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 60 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 61 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

Ship owning

Liberia †

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

147

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures as at 31st December 2014Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)
Newcontainer No. 66 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 67 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 68 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 69 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 70 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 73 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 75 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

Newcontainer No. 78 (Marshall Islands)
  Shipping Inc.

effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide 

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

OLL Logistics (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

100

10,000 ordinary shares
RM10,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding 

Malaysia

Malaysia

OOCL (Agencies) Ltd.

OOCL (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

100

100

200 ordinary shares
US$20,000

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

Investment holding

Bermuda

Worldwide

Transportation

Hong Kong

Asia Pacific

148 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures as at 31st December 2014Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)
OOCL (Assets) Holdings Inc.

effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

100

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

OOCL (Assets USA) Holdings Inc.

100

OOCL (Australia) Pty Ltd.

OOCL BENELUX

OOCL (Cambodia) Ltd.

OOCL (Canada) Inc.

OOCL (China) Investment Ltd.

100

100

100

100

100

OOCL (Corporate Services) Limited

100

OOCL (Denmark) A/S

OOCL (Europe) Ltd.

OOCL (Finland) Ltd. Oy

OOCL (France) SA

OOCL (India) Private Ltd.

OOCL (Infotech) Holdings Ltd.

100

100

100

100

100

100

50,000 ordinary shares
US$50,000

200,000 ordinary shares
A$200,000

226,271 ordinary shares
€609,799

50,000 ordinary shares
Riel200,000,000

10,000 common stock
C$91,000

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

1,000 ordinary shares
DKK500,000

5,000,000 ordinary shares
£5,000,000

150 ordinary shares
€2,522.82

60,000 ordinary shares
€914,694.10

1,000 equity shares
Rupees100,000

2 ordinary shares 
US$2

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Investment holding

Liberia †

USA

Liner agency

Australia

Australia

Liner agency

Belgium

Belgium

Liner agency

Cambodia

Cambodia

Liner agency

Canada

Canada

Investment holding

Hong Kong

China

Provision of corporate
services

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Liner agency

Denmark

Northern Europe

Container transport,
investment holding and
liner territorial office

United Kingdom Worldwide

Liner agency

Finland

Finland

Liner agency

France

France

Liner agency

India

India

Investment holding

British Virgin
Islands

Worldwide

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

149

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures as at 31st December 2014Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)
OOCL (Ireland) Ltd.

OOCL (Italy) S.r.l.

OOCL (Korea) Ltd.

OOCL (Liners) Holdings Ltd.

OOCL (Logistics) Holdings Ltd.

OOCL (New Zealand) Ltd.

OOCL Pakistan (Private) Ltd.

OOCL (Philippines) Inc.

OOCL (Poland) Ltd sp. z o.o.

OOCL (Portugal), Lda

OOCL (Russia) Ltd.

OOCL (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

OOCL (Sweden) AB

OOCL (Switzerland) AG

effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100 ordinary shares 
€125

1 quota 
€10,000

16,000 common stock 
Won160,000,000

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

10,000 ordinary shares
US$10,000

100 ordinary shares
NZD1,000

1,350,000 ordinary shares
PKR13,500,000

55,000 common stock
Peso5,500,000

1,000 ordinary shares
PLN50,000

2 quotas 
€25,000

1 participatory share
Rub10,000

100,000 ordinary shares
S$100,000

100,000 ordinary shares
SEK100,000

200,000 ordinary shares
CHF200,000

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

Liner agency

Ireland

Ireland

Liner agency

Italy

Italy

Liner agency

Korea

Korea

Investment holding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Investment holding

British Virgin
Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

New Zealand

New Zealand

Liner agency

Pakistan 

Pakistan

Liner agency

Philippines

Philippines

Liner agency

Poland 

Poland

Liner agency

Portugal

Portugal

Liner agency

Russia

Russia

Liner agency

Singapore

Singapore

Liner agency

Sweden

Sweden

Liner agency

Switzerland

Switzerland

150 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures as at 31st December 2014Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)
OOCL (Taiwan) Co. Ltd.

effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

100

10,000,000 ordinary shares
NT$100,000,000

OOCL (Terminals) Investment Ltd.

100

OOCL (USA) Inc.

OOCL (Vietnam) Co. Ltd.

OOCL China Domestics Ltd.

OOCL LLC

OOCL Logistics Limited

100

100

100

100

100

OOCL Logistics (Asia Pacific) Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (Australia)
  Pty. Limited

OOCL Logistics (Cambodia) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (Canada) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (China) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (Europe) Ltd.

100

100

100

100

100

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

Liner agency

Taiwan

Taiwan

Investment holding

British Virgin
Islands

Worldwide

Liner agency

USA

USA

Liner agency

Vietnam

Vietnam

Freight agency and cargo
consolidation

Investment holding and
equipment owning

Investment holding

Investment holding,
management of international
transportation and logistics

China ±

China

USA

USA

British Virgin
Islands

Hong Kong

Bermuda

Asia Pacific

500 ordinary shares 
US$500

1,030 common stock
US$1,030

Legal capital 
US$500,000

Registered capital
RMB21,250,000

Capital of 
US$500,000

10,000 ordinary shares
US$10,000

200 ordinary shares
US$20,000

200,000 ordinary shares
A$200,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding 

Australia

Australia

1,250 ordinary shares
Riel5,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding 

Cambodia

Cambodia

1,000 common stock 
C$1,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding

Canada

Canada

Registered capital
US$4,840,000

2 ordinary shares 
£2

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding

China *

China

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding 

United Kingdom

Europe

OOCL Logistics (Hong Kong) Ltd.

100

50,000 ordinary shares
HK$500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding

Hong Kong

Hong Kong

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

151

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures as at 31st December 2014Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)
OOCL Logistics (India) Private Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (Japan) Ltd.

OOCL Logistics (Korea) Ltd.

effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

100

100

100

35,000 equity shares
Rupee3,500,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding

India

India

200 ordinary shares
Yen10,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation
and forwarding 

Japan

Japan

30,000 common stock
Won300,000,000

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Korea

Korea

OOCL Logistics Mexico, S.A. de CV

100

OOCL Logistics (Russia) Limited

100

OOCL Logistics (Singapore) Pte Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (Taiwan) Ltd.

100

OOCL Logistics (USA) Inc.

100

OOCL Logistics Line Limited

OOCL Logistics Warehousing and
  Transportation (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.

OOCL Logistics Warehousing and
  Transportation (Tianjin) Co. Ltd.

# OOCL Transport & Logistics
  Holdings Ltd.

OOCL Warehousing (Shanghai)
  Limited

100

100

100

100

100

10 minimum fixed
capital shares 
499,990 variable capital shares
Peso500,000

1 share 
Rub10,000

2 ordinary shares 
S$2

4,250,000 ordinary shares
NT$42,500,000

100 common stock 
US$200

2 ordinary shares 
HK$2

Registered capital
US$1,000,000

Registered capital
US$4,700,000

169,477,152 ordinary shares
US$169,477,152 

Registered capital
US$10,000,000 

Logistics, cargo consolidation 
and forwarding

Mexico

Mexico

Logistics, cargo
consolidation and
forwarding 

Logistics, cargo
consolidation and
forwarding

Logistics, cargo
consolidation and
forwarding 

Logistics, cargo
consolidation,
forwarding and
investment holding

Russia

Russia

Singapore

Singapore

Taiwan

Taiwan

USA

Worldwide

Ocean freight forwarding

Hong Kong

Worldwide

Warehousing and
logistics services

China *

China

Warehousing, transportation 
and logistics services

China *

China

Investment holding

Bermuda

Worldwide

Warehousing, freight
forwarding and
logistics services

China *

China

152 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures as at 31st December 2014Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)
# OOIL (Investments) Inc.

Orient Overseas Associates

Orient Overseas Building Corp.

Orient Overseas Container
  Line (China) Co. Ltd.

Orient Overseas Container Line

(Europe) Ltd.

Orient Overseas Container Line

(Malaysia) Sdn Bhd

Orient Overseas Container Line

(Spain), S.L.

Orient Overseas Container Line

(UK) Ltd.

Orient Overseas Container
  Line Inc.

Orient Overseas Container
  Line Ltd.

Planet Era Limited

Soberry Investments Ltd.

Union Faith (H.K.) Limited

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

100

effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

500 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Limited partnership

Property owning

Property owning

USA

USA

USA

USA

10 common stock 
US$150,000

Registered capital 
US$2,800,000

66,000,000 ordinary shares
£66,000,000

500,000 ordinary shares
RM500,000

3,100 ordinary shares 
€3,100

Liner agency

China *

China

Investment holding

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

Liner agency

Malaysia

Malaysia

Liner agency

Spain

Spain

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

Container transport and
ship management

Cayman Islands

Worldwide

500 ordinary shares
US$25,000,000

10,000 ordinary shares
HK$1,000,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

5,000 ordinary shares
US$5,000

1 ordinary share 
HK$1

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Container transport

Hong Kong

Worldwide

Ship owning

Marshall Islands Worldwide

Portfolio investment

British Virgin 
Islands

Worldwide

Ship owning

Hong Kong

Worldwide

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

153

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures as at 31st December 2014 
 
 
 
100
100
100

100

100

100

principal activities

Country of
incorporation

area of
operations

Investment holding

USA

USA

Investment holding

Liberia †

Worldwide

Terminal operating

China §

China

Terminal operating

China §

China

Liner agency

Egypt

Egypt

Liner agency

Dubai

Dubai

Container depot

China §

China

40 class A common stock
160 class B common stock
20,000 12% series A
non-cumulative
non-voting preferred stock
18,000 11% series B
non-cumulative
non-voting preferred stock 
19,500 12% series C
non-cumulative
non-voting preferred stock 
19,000 12% series D
non-cumulative
non-voting preferred stock 
US$76,500,200

500 ordinary shares 
US$5,000

Registered capital
RMB2,500,000,000

Registered capital
US$160,000,000

3,675 ordinary shares
EGP367,500

300 ordinary shares
AED300,000

Registered capital
RMB69,900,000

effective 
percentage
held by
Group

issued and fully
paid up capital/
registered capital/
contributed cash capital

Name of Company

Subsidiaries (Continued)
Wall Street Plaza, Inc.

Wealth Capital Corporation

100

associated companies
Ningbo Yuan Dong Terminal Co. Ltd.

Tianjin Port Alliance International
  Container Terminal Co. Ltd.

Joint ventures
OOCL (Egypt) Shipping Agency S.A.E.

OOCL (UAE) LLC

Qingdao Orient International
  Container Storage &
  Transportation Co. Ltd.

20

20

49

49

59

#  Direct subsidiaries of the Company.

† 

Companies incorporated in Liberia but redomiciled to the Marshall Islands.

*  Wholly foreign-owned enterprise.

§ 

± 

Sino-foreign equity joint venture enterprise.

Domestic joint venture enterprise.

154 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Principal Subsidiaries, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures as at 31st December 2014fleet

The following table sets out the Group’s vessels as at 31st December 2014.

VeSSel NaMe

NYK Hercules
NYK Hermes
NYK Hyperion
OOCL America
OOCL Atlanta
OOCL Australia
OOCL Bangkok
OOCL Beijing
OOCL Belgium
OOCL California
OOCL Canada
OOCL Charleston
OOCL Chicago
OOCL Chongqing
OOCL Dalian
OOCL Guangzhou
OOCL Le Havre
OOCL London
OOCL Luxembourg
OOCL Memphis
OOCL Miami
OOCL Nagoya
OOCL New York
OOCL Norfolk
OOCL Rotterdam
OOCL San Francisco
OOCL Seoul
OOCL Shanghai
OOCL Washington
OOCL Zhoushan
NYK Helios
OOCL Asia
OOCL Berlin
OOCL Brisbane
OOCL Brussels
OOCL Busan
OOCL Europe
OOCL Hamburg
OOCL Houston
OOCL Jakarta
OOCL Kobe
OOCL Korea
OOCL Montreal
OOCL New Zealand

teU
CapaCitY

oWNerSHip

SerViCe iN
WHiCH USeD

Date
plaCeD iN
SerViCe

13,208
13,208
13,208
5,344
8,063
4,583
13,208
8,888
2,808
5,344
8,888
4,578
5,714
13,208
4,578
4,578
4,578
8,063
8,063
8,888
8,888
4,578
5,770
4,578
8,063
5,714
8,063
5,770
8,063
4,583
13,208
8,063
13,208
4,578
13,208
4,578
8,063
8,063
4,578
4,578
4,578
13,208
4,402
4,578

Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Owned
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease

N/A
N/A
N/A
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia-New Zealand
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
N/A
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Europe
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia

2013
2013
2013
1995
2005
2006
2013
2011
1998
1995
2011
2010
2000
2013
2009
2010
2010
2010
2010
2013
2013
2009
1999
2009
2004
2000
2010
1999
2010
2006
2013
2006
2013
2009
2013
2008
2006
2004
2007
2010
2007
2014
2003
2009

flaG

Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

155

Fleet and Container InformationVeSSel NaMe

OOCL Ningbo
OOCL Panama
OOCL Qingdao
OOCL Savannah
OOCL Singapore
OOCL Southampton
OOCL Texas
OOCL Tokyo
OOCL Yokohama
Allise P
Augusta Kontor
Andreas
Annaba
Herma P
Hermes
Hs Mozart
Japan

(ex. OOCL Japan)

Jules Verne
Kaethe P
King Bruce
Kuo Hung
Madinah
Navi Baltic
Nordic Philip
Nordic Stani
OOCL Antwerp
OOCL Britain
OOCL China
OOCL Dubai
OOCL Halifax
OOCL Hong Kong
OOCL Istanbul

(ex ZIM Kingston)

OOCL Italy
OOCL Kaohsiung
OOCL Kuala Lumpur
OOCL Long Beach
OOCL Mexico
OOCL Netherlands
OOCL Novorossiysk
(ex ZIM Dalian)

OOCL Oakland
OOCL Rauma
(ex. Elysee)
OOCL Shenzhen
OOCL Taichung

(ex. Sinar Batam)

OOCL Tianjin
OOCL Vancouver

teU
CapaCitY

8,063
4,578
8,063
4,578
13,208
8,063
4,578
8,063
4,578
5,044
5,060
2,210
1,578
5,044
2,510
4,515
5,344

4,245
5,044
1,710
1,295
4,258
1,421
1,036
1,036
5,888
5,344
5,344
5,888
4,992
5,344
4,253

5,888
5,888
5,888
8,063
4,992
5,390
4,253

5,888
1,440

8,063
1,560

8,063
5,888

oWNerSHip

Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Finance Lease
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

SerViCe iN
WHiCH USeD

Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Chartered
Chartered

Chartered
Chartered

Chartered
Chartered

Asia-Australia-New Zealand
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Asia-Australia-New Zealand
Intra-Europe
Intra-Europe
Intra-Europe
Trans-Pacific
N/A
N/A
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Asia-Australia
Asia-Europe

Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Pacific
Trans-Atlantic
Intra-Asia
Asia-Europe

Trans-Pacific
Intra-Europe

Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia

Asia-Europe
Trans-Pacific

Date
plaCeD iN
SerViCe

2004
2008
2004
2010
2014
2007
2008
2007
2007
2014
2014
2014
2014
2014
2014
2014
1996

2014
2014
2009
2014
2014
2013
2011
2012
2006
1996
1996
2006
2014
1995
2013

2007
2006
2007
2003
2014
1997
2013

2007
2012

2003
2008

2005
2006

flaG

Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Liberia
Marshall Islands
Liberia
Liberia
Liberia
Antigua and Barbuda
Malta
Hong Kong

Liberia
Liberia
Marshall Islands
Panama
Hong Kong
Cyprus
Cyprus
Cyprus
Panama
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Singapore
United Kingdom
Hong Kong
Malta

Singapore
Singapore
Singapore
Hong Kong
Liberia
Hong Kong
Malta

Panama
The Netherlands

Hong Kong
Hong Kong

Hong Kong
Panama

156 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Fleet and Container Information 
 
 
 
 
VeSSel NaMe

Pacific Trader
Perla
RDO Concert
SFL Avon
Silvia
Singapore
Sonderborg Strait
Spirit of Bangkok
Star of Luck
Teng Yun He
Warnow Chief
Warnow Mate
Willi
Wehr Blankenese
YM Efficiency
total 104 VeSSelS

teU
CapaCitY

oWNerSHip

SerViCe iN
WHiCH USeD

Date
plaCeD iN
SerViCe

1,118
1,118
6,969
1,740
4,239
5,390
1,085
1,620
1,645
1,702
1,500
1,500
2,210
1,730
4,218
593,182

Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered
Chartered

Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Europe
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Intra-Asia
Trans-Pacific

2013
2012
2014
2012
2014
1997
2012
2013
2013
2009
2013
2014
2014
2014
2014

flaG

Cyprus
Marshall Islands
Liberia
Marshall Islands
Marshall Islands
Hong Kong
Antigua and Barbuda
Marshall Islands
Liberia
China
Cyprus
Cyprus
Marshall Islands
Marshall Islands
Liberia

Container information

The  Group  owned,  purchased  on  finance  lease  terms  or  leased  under  operating  lease  agreements  611,125  units  (982,880  TEU) 
as of 31st December 2014. Approximately 75.20% of the container fleet in TEU capacity was owned or purchased under finance 
leases with the remainder leased under operating lease agreements.

In addition, at 31st December 2014 the Group owned or leased under operating lease terms 94 trailer chassis.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

157

Fleet and Container Informationlong  Beach  Container  terminal,  llC.  (lBCt 
llC)

Kaohsiung Container terminal (KaoCt)

location:

Long Beach, California, USA

Status of terminal:

A  90.8  acre,  three  berth  container  facility  operated  under  a 
long-term  preferential  use  agreement  from  the  Port  of  Long 
Beach.

equipment/facilities:

Three  container-vessel  berths;  seven  Post-Panamax  quayside 
container gantry cranes; five side picks; 12 rubber-tired gantry 
cranes;  75  yard  tractors;  11  top  handlers;  12  utility  forklifts; 
56 yard chassis; various pick-up trucks and other vehicles and 
handling equipment.

location:

Building facilities:

13,000 sq ft main office building; 3,200 sq ft marine operations 
building; 9,600 sq ft repair shop.

principal Customers:

APL, Hapag Lloyd, HMM, MOL, NYK and OOCL.

Pier 65 and 66 Kaohsiung Harbour, Kaohsiung, Taiwan

Status of terminal:

As  one  of  the  original  container  facilities  in  the  Kaohsiung 
Harbour,  the  Kaohsiung  Container  Terminal  has  deep-
water  berths  of  14.5  meters  and  the  entire  facility  has  been 
modernized  since  2002  and  upgraded  in  2012  with  the  ability 
to handle two 10,000-TEU vessels at the same time.

equipment/facilities:

Two  container-vessel  berths  (760  meters  long)  on  a  total  of 
approximately 56 acres operating 24-hour, 7-days a week basis 
for  vessel  and  gate  activities:  Six  Post-Panamax  quay  cranes 
including  four  with  19  rows  and  two  with  22  rows  of  twin  20 
ft  lifting  capacity;  18  rail-mounted  gantry  cranes;  5  empty 
stackers and various shipside handling equipment.

To  further  enhance  services  and  improve  efficiency,  terminal 
upgrade projects will continue to be carried out which include 
the  completion  of  an  expansion  of  the  container  storage  area 
by  1,500  TEU  in  January  2014.  After  the  completion  of  these 
projects, the rail-mounted gantry cranes will be able to handle 
1.4  million  TEU  per  annum  and  carbon  emission  will  be 
further reduced.

Building facilities (approximate area):

2,174 sqm office building, 7,000 sqm container freight station, 
720 sqm maintenance building

principal Customers:

ANL, APL, COSCO, CSCL, EMC, HPL, HYMM, MOSK, NYK, 
OOCL, PIL, WHL, YMI, ZIM and various feeder operators.

158 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Terminal InformationUS$’000

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

Consolidated profit and loss Data
Revenue
Operating profit/(loss)
Finance costs
Profit/(loss) before taxation
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing 
  operations
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued 
  operations
Profit/(loss) for the year
Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary 

shareholders
Per Ordinary Share
  Earnings/(loss) (US cents)

from continuing operations
from discontinued operations

  Dividends (US cents)
Weighted average number of
  ordinary shares in issue (’000)

Consolidated Balance Sheet Data
Property, plant and equipment
Liquid assets
Assets held for sale
Liabilities directly associated with assets
  classified as held for sale
Other net current (liabilities)/assets
Total assets
Long-term debt
Total long and short-term debt
Net debt/(liquid assets)
Ordinary shareholders’ equity

other financial information
Depreciation
Capital expenditure

Consolidated financial ratios/percentages
Debt to equity ratio
Net debt/(cash) to equity ratio
Return/(loss) on average ordinary

shareholders’ equity (%)

Accounts payable as a % of revenue
Accounts receivable as a % of revenue
Net asset value per ordinary share (US$)

4,345,647
693,563
(55,744)
644,685

4,609,751
621,364
(71,721)
553,218

5,651,030
687,437
(99,078)
592,024

6,530,855
397,764
(81,016)
322,546

4,350,195
(332,237)
(35,347)
(361,870)

6,033,402
918,807
(29,091)
898,776

6,011,836
174,598
(26,179)
162,457

6,459,059
327,904
(32,877)
310,134

6,231,583
90,314
(41,019)
66,999

6,521,589
329,147
(54,000)
294,583

615,198

528,335

553,749

297,569

(376,104)

869,817

139,354

296,317

47,133

270,438

36,093
651,291

52,805
581,140

1,994,653
2,548,402

(22,040)
275,529

(24,501) 1,004,554
(400,605) 1,874,371

43,000
182,354

–
296,317

–
47,133

–
270,438

650,854

580,603

2,546,979

272,337

(402,294) 1,866,780

181,645

295,387

47,036

270,538

98.2
5.8
27.00

84.4
8.4
103.00

88.3
318.7
103.00

47.1
(3.6)
11.00

(60.4)
(3.9)
–

137.8
160.5
283.80

22.1
6.9
7.00

47.2
–
11.84

7.5
–
1.88

43.2
–
10.90

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

625,793

2,593,946
1,286,579
–

2,777,004
1,167,924
406,232

3,350,844
2,244,865
–

3,780,945
2,077,087
–

3,798,048
1,354,387
1,268,254

3,860,367
4,132,897
–

4,205,194
2,413,132
–

4,664,773
2,339,531
–

5,320,251
2,411,085
–

5,608,929
2,689,754
53,047

–
(165,629)
4,814,916
1,650,044
1,838,592
552,013
2,284,330

(178,992)
56,348
5,600,003
1,870,890
2,068,798
900,874
2,727,206

–
75,034
7,213,644
1,864,436
2,206,184
(38,681)
4,176,368

–
342,756
7,701,635
2,218,251
2,372,146
295,059
4,387,071

–
(142,406)
(475,304)
(582,807)
9,075,183
7,330,174
2,416,367
2,135,967
2,568,022
2,664,122
1,213,635 (1,468,775)
5,548,446
3,944,684

–
(543,133)
7,711,478
2,233,095
2,672,206
259,074
4,233,468

–
(654,625)
8,231,039
2,325,777
2,881,530
541,999
4,481,815

–
(473,105)
8,990,218
3,265,555
3,533,865
1,122,780
4,470,807

–
(628,393)
9,633,455
3,595,625
3,984,502
1,294,748
4,634,752

157,302
635,494

178,761
633,128

173,988
752,903

181,898
650,568

207,275
380,161

255,010
345,255

242,534
744,603

235,346
784,562

302,884
999,451

323,482
878,769

0.80
0.24

31.8
13.9
9.6
3.65

0.76
0.33

23.2
12.2
8.3
4.36

0.53
(0.01)

73.8
13.3
12.3
6.67

0.54
0.07

6.4
12.8
6.7
7.01

0.65
0.31

(9.7)
13.8
8.7
6.30

0.48
(0.26)

39.3
12.6
7.5
8.87

0.63
0.06

3.7
11.8
7.8
6.76

0.64
0.12

6.8
12.1
8.4
7.16

0.79
0.25

1.1
14.5
8.9
7.14

0.86
0.28

5.9
14.5
8.8
7.41

Note:

(1)  The results of discontinued operations prior to 2008 have not been restated or reclassified.

(2)  The accounting policy on HKAS 12 ‘Income taxes’ was changed in 2012 and the figures prior to 2010 have not been restated to reflect this change.

(3)  The accounting policy on HKAS 19 Amendment ‘Employee Benefits’ was changed in 2013 and the figures prior to 2011 have not been restated to 

reflect this change.

Orient Overseas (International) Limited
Annual Report 2014

159

10-Year Financial Summary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
executive Directors

principal registrar

Solicitors

Conyers Dill & Pearman
  Clarendon House
  2 Church Street
  Hamilton HM11
  Bermuda

  and at

  2901 One Exchange Square
  8 Connaught Place
  Central
  Hong Kong

Ince & Co
  Rooms 3801-6, 38th Floor

ICBC Tower, Citibank Plaza

  3 Garden Road, Central
  Hong Kong

Slaughter and May
  47th Floor, Jardine House
  One Connaught Place
  Central
  Hong Kong

auditor

PricewaterhouseCoopers
Certified Public Accountants
  22nd Floor
  Prince’s Building, Central
  Hong Kong

Mr. TUNG Chee Chen

(Chairman, President and

  Chief Executive Officer)
Mr. TUNG Lieh Cheung Andrew
Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan

(Acting Chief Financial Officer)

MUFG Fund Services 
(Bermuda) Limited
  The Belvedere Building
  69 Pitts Bay Road
  Pembroke HM08
  Bermuda

Non-executive Director

Branch registrar

Professor Roger KING

independent  Non-e xecutive 
Directors

Mr. Simon MURRAY
Mr. CHANG Tsann Rong Ernest
Mr. CHOW Philip Yiu Wah
Professor WONG Yue Chim Richard
Mr. CHENG Wai Sun Edward

Company Secretary

Ms. LEE Chee Fun Lammy

authorised representatives

Mr. TUNG Lieh Sing Alan
Ms. LEE Chee Fun Lammy

principal office

33rd Floor
Harbour Centre
25 Harbour Road, Wanchai
Hong Kong

registered office

Clarendon House
2 Church Street
Hamilton HM11
Bermuda

Computershare Hong Kong Investor
Services Limited
  Shops 1712-1716, 17th Floor
  Hopewell Centre
  183 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai
  Hong Kong

listing exchange

The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong
Limited
Stock Code: 316

Website

http://www.ooilgroup.com

Major Bankers

Bank of America, N.A.
Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited
Citibank, N.A.
HSBC Holdings plc
HSH Nordbank
National Australia Bank Limited
Overseas-Chinese Banking
  Corporation Limited
Standard Chartered Bank
(Hong Kong) Limited

160 Orient Overseas (International) Limited

Annual Report 2014

Corporate Information 
 
 
 
Orient Overseas (International) Limited
(Incorporated in Bermuda with Limited Liability)

33rd Floor Harbour Centre, 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong   Telephone: (852) 2833 3838
www.ooilgroup.com

Design and Production by: Toppan Vite Limited

This report is printed on paper in accordance with the standards below

Acid Free     Lignin Free     Dioxin Free     Biodegradable     ISO9001     ISO14001

