Corporate Information

Financial Highlights

Chairman’s Statement

Biographies of Directors

公司資料 

財務概要 

主席報告 

董事簡歷 

Directors’ Report

董事會報告 

Corporate Governance Report

企業管治報告 

Independent Auditor’s Report

獨立核數師報告 

Consolidated Statement of
  Comprehensive Income

Consolidated Statement of
  Financial Position

綜合全面收益表 

綜合財務狀況報表 

Statement of Financial Position

財務狀況報表 

Consolidated Statement of
  Changes in Equity

綜合權益變動表 

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

綜合現金流轉表 

Notes to the Consolidated
  Financial Statements

綜合財務報表附註 

Summary of Financial Information

財務資料摘要 

2

4

5

12

15

21

32

34

36

38

39

41

43

135

1

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDContents目錄2014 Annual Report  年度報告董事
執行董事
莊友衡（主席）
張榮平
張嘉儀
文惠存

獨立非執行董事
邱恩明
繆希
杜東尼

審核委員會
邱恩明（主席）
繆希
杜東尼

薪酬委員會
繆希（主席）
邱恩明
杜東尼
文惠存

提名委員會
莊友衡（主席）
繆希
邱恩明
杜東尼
張嘉儀

DIRECTORS
Executive Directors
Chuang Yueheng, Henry (Chairman)
Cheung Wing Ping
Cheung Ka Yee
Man Wai Chuen 

Independent Non-executive Directors
Yau Yan Ming, Raymond
Frank H. Miu
Antonio Maria Santos

AUDIT COMMITTEE
Yau Yan Ming, Raymond (Chairman)
Frank H. Miu
Antonio Maria Santos

REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Frank H. Miu (Chairman)
Yau Yan Ming, Raymond
Antonio Maria Santos
Man Wai Chuen

NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Chuang Yueheng, Henry (Chairman)
Frank H. Miu
Yau Yan Ming, Raymond
Antonio Maria Santos
Cheung Ka Yee

2

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Corporate Information公司資料 2014 Annual Report  年度報告COMPANY SECRETARY
Man Wai Chuen

AUDITOR
Mazars CPA Limited
Certified Public Accountants

REGISTERED AND PRINCIPAL OFFICE
32/F, China United Centre
28 Marble Road
North Point
Hong Kong

PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Chong Hing Bank Limited
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited

SHARE REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER OFFICE
Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited
Transfer Office
Shops 1712-1716
17/F, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East
Hong Kong

Investor Centre
17M Floor, Hopewell Centre
183 Queen’s Road East
Hong Kong

公司秘書
文惠存

核數師
瑪澤會計師事務所有限公司
香港執業會計師

註冊及主要辦事處
香港
北角
馬寶道 28 號
華匯中心 32 樓

主要往來銀行
創興銀行有限公司
香港上海滙豐銀行有限公司

股份註冊及過戶處
香港中央證券登記有限公司
過戶處
香港
皇后大道東 183 號
合和中心 17 樓
1712-1716 號舖

投資者服務中心
香港
皇后大道東 183 號
合和中心 17M 樓

INTERNET ADDRESS
http://www.willie273.com
http://www.irasia.com/listco/hk/willie/index.htm

網址
http://www.willie273.com
http://www.irasia.com/listco/hk/willie/index.htm

3

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDCorporate Information公司資料2014 Annual Report  年度報告TURNOVER SUMMARY

營業額概要

NET ASSETS SUMMARY

資產淨值概要

4

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Financial Highlights財務概要2014 Annual Report  年度報告On behalf of the board of directors (the “Board”) of Willie International 
Holdings  Limited  (the  “Company”),  I  present  to  the  shareholders  the 
results of the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) for the year 
ended 31 December 2014 (the “Year”).

本人謹代表威利國際控股有限公司（「本
公司」）的董事會（「董事會」）向股東呈報
本公司及其附屬公司（「本集團」）截至二
零一四年十二月三十一日止年度（「本年
度」）的業績。

DIVIDEND

股息

The Board does not recommend the payment of a dividend for the Year 
(2013: nil).

董事會建議不派付本年度股息（二零一三
年：無）。

FINAL RESULTS

全年業績

During  the  Year,  the  Group  reported  a  turnover  of  approximately 
HK$568  million  compared  with  a  turnover  of  approximately  HK$45 
million for the corresponding period in 2013. The increase in turnover 
was  mainly  attributable  to  the  increase  in  net  realised  gain  from  sale 
of  investments  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss  by  approximately 
HK$503 million and the increase in dividend income from investments 
by HK$17 million.

年 內， 本 集 團 呈 報 之 營 業 額 約
568,000,000 港元，而二零一三年同期之
營業額約為 45,000,000 港元。營業額增
加主要原因是出售按公平值計入損益之
投 資 變 現 收 益 淨 額 增 加 約 503,000,000
港 元 以 及 來 自 投 資 之 股 息 收 入 增 加
17,000,000 港元。

The  Group  reported  a  profit  of  approximately  HK$744  million 
attributable to shareholders for the Year (2013: profit of approximately 
HK$82 million).  The  rise  in  profitability  in  the  Year  was  primarily 
attributable  to  the  higher  amount  of  realized  and  fair  value  gains 
(approximately HK$668 million in 2014 vs. approximately HK$86 million 
in 2013) on financial assets held by the Group for investment trading 
purpose  plus  fair  value  gains  (approximately  HK$63  million  in  2014 
vs. loss of approximately HK$0.4 million in 2013) on the Group’s long-
term investments. The amount of earnings per share for the Year was 
approximately HK5.27 cents (2013: HK0.59 cents (adjusted)).

本 集 團 於 本 年 度 呈 報 股 東 應 佔 溢 利 約
744,000,000 港 元（二零一三年：溢利
約82,000,000港元）。 本 年 度 盈 利 表 現
上揚，主要由於本集團持作投資買賣的
金 融 資 產 方 面， 錄 得 實 現 收 益 及 公 平
值收益的總金額較高（二零一四年約為
668,000,000 港 元， 而 二 零 一 三 年 則 約
為 86,000,000 港 元 ）， 再 加 上 本 集 團 持
有的長期投資方面亦錄得公平值收益（二
零一四年約為 63,000,000 港元，而二零
一三年則錄得虧損約為 400,000 港元）所
致。本年度每股盈利金額約為 5.27 港仙

（二零一三年：0.59港仙（經調整））。

5

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDChairman’s Statement主席報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告BUSINESS REVIEW & PROSPECTS

Business Review & Prospect

The  local  stock  market  in  the  year  2014  experienced  a  pick-up  of  a 
number  of  small-cap  stocks  outperforming  Hang  Seng  Index,  which 
rose only 1.3% year-on-year. Having capitalized on the opportunities 
amid  these  stock  market  conditions,  the  Group  managed  to  achieve 
impressive performance in its securities trading segment by realizing a 
net gain from sale of investments of almost HK$520 million and a net 
fair value gain on investments held for trading of approximately HK$119 
million  together  with  dividend  and  interest  income  from  investments 
amounting to approximately HK$35 million, resulting in a profit to the 
securities  trading  segment  of  approximately  HK$674  million (2013: 
approximately HK$89 million).

For the property investment segment, the Group has generated a stable 
rental income of approximately HK$0.40 million (2013: approximately 
HK$0.40 million).  This  segment  reported  a  profit  from  net  fair  value 
gain on investment properties of approximately HK$0.55 million (2013: 
approximately HK$0.30 million).

During the Year, the Group expanded its portfolio of loans targeted at 
low  credit  risk  borrowers.  The  money  lending  business  generated  an 
interest income of  approximately  HK$13  million (2013: approximately 
HK$9 million).  The  performance  of  loans  receivable  warrantied  a 
reversal of allowance for doubtful debt for approximately HK$1 million 
(2013: approximately HK$7 million) resulted in a profit (after expenses) 
of approximately HK$12 million during the Year (2013: approximately 
HK$15 million).

業務回顧及展望

業務回顧及展望

二 零 一 四 年 本 港 股 市 出 現 多 家 細 市 值
公 司 的 股 份 表 現 跑 贏 恒 生 指 數， 後 者
按 年 僅 增 長 1.3%。 透 過 抓 住 股 市 中 所
蘊 藏 之 機 遇， 本 集 團 證 券 交 易 分 部 取
得 可 觀 表 現， 實 現 出 售 投 資 收 益 淨 額
近 520,000,000 港 元 及 持 作 買 賣 投 資 之
公 平 值 收 益 淨 額 約 119,000,000 港 元
以 及 投 資 所 產 生 之 股 息 及 利 息 收 入 約
35,000,000 港元，令證券買賣分部之溢
利達約 674,000,000 港元（二零一三年：
約89,000,000港元）。

物業投資分部方面，本集團之租金收入
保 持 平 穩， 約 為 400,000 港 元。（二零
一三年：約400,000港元）。 該 分 部 中
投資物業公平值收益淨額錄得溢利約為
550,000 港 元（二零一三年：約300,000
港元）。

年內，本集團在擴大貸款組合時，專注
吸納低信貸風險借款人。貸款業務產生
利 息 收 入 約 13,000,000 港 元（二零一三
年：約9,000,000港元）。 應 收 貸 款 的
表 現 令 呆 賬 撥 備 得 以 撥 回 約 1,000,000
港 元（二 零 一 三 年： 約7,000,000港
元），為本年度錄得溢利（經扣除開支）
約 12,000,000 港 元（二零一三年：約
15,000,000港元）。

6

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Chairman’s Statement主席報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告For the investment holding segment, the Company has taken concrete 
steps  to  develop  the  strategic  alliance  with  Freeman  Financial 
Corporation  Limited  (“Freeman”,  stock  code:  279).  In  June  2014,  the 
Group  through  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  the  Company  formed  a 
joint venture company called Freewill Holdings Limited with Freeman 
Financial  Services  Limited  (a  subsidiary  of  Freeman)  to  jointly  hold 
both  parties’  investments  in  HEC  Capital  Limited  (“HEC”)  aiming  at 
exercising more influence on HEC’s financial and operational policies 
with the combined shareholding in HEC (currently representing about 
29%  of  HEC’s  issued  share  capital).  In  September  2014,  the  Group 
through another wholly-owned subsidiary acquired an equity stake in 
Freeman  Corporation  Limited  (“FCL”,  a  subsidiary  of  Freeman)  with 
an aim to participate in its development of business in the provision of 
financial services and securities trading. Since then, FCL has become 
an associate of the Company. After taking these steps, the investment 
holding segment recorded a net gain of approximately HK$79 million 
for the Year (2013: approximately HK$4 million).

After reaching contracts with various consultants, engineers, suppliers 
and  service  providers,  construction  work  for  the  hotel  development 
project in the Kingdom of Bhutan commenced during the Year, ahead 
of  the  initial  schedule  date  in  year  2015.  This  hotel  development 
project  is  owned  by  the  project  company  called  “Bhutan  Ventures 
Hospitality  Private  Limited”,  of  which  the  Group  holds  one-third  of 
the  equity  capital.  According  to  the  construction  cost  consultant, 
the  estimated  sum  of  costs  of  construction  would  be  higher  than 
the  initial  estimate  by  around  US$5  million.  The  shareholders  of 
the  project  company  have  financed  the  additional  cost  by  making 
additional equity capital contribution during the Year. The Group so far 
has  injected  a  sum  of  investment  for  approximately  US$6.67  million 
(equivalent to approximately HK$52 million) into the project company. 
Apart  from  equity  capital,  the  project  company  is  processing  the 
documentation to  procure  a  long-term  project loan for US$30 million 
(equivalent  to  approximately  HK$234  million)  from  a  bank  without 
shareholders’  guarantee  to  finance  the  construction  costs.  With  the 
active  participation  of  our  Bhutan  partner  (namely,  Dasho  Sangay 
Wangchuk)  and  the  renowned  hotel  operator  (namely,  Sustainable 
Luxury Management (Thailand) Limited trading as “Six Senses Resorts 
and Spas”) in this hotel development project, the Board believes that 
the construction work and the bank loan being procured by the project 
company can go ahead in full swing in the coming year.

投資控股分部方面，本公司已採取與民
豐 企 業 控 股 有 限 公 司（「民 豐 」， 股 份 代
號：279）發展策略聯盟的具體步驟。於
二零一四年六月，本集團透過本公司全
資附屬公司與民豐金融服務有限公司（民
豐的附屬公司）成立一間合營公司，名為
Freewill Holdings Limited，共同持有雙
方於中南融資有限公司（「中南融資」）的
投資，旨在利用於中南融資的合併股權
（目前佔中南融資已發行股本約 29%）對
中南融資的財務及營運策略行使更大影
響力。於二零一四年九月，本集團透過
另外一間全資附屬公司收購民豐控股有
限公司（「民豐控股」，民豐的附屬公司）
之股權，旨在參與發展其提供的金融服
務及證券買賣之業務。自此，民豐控股
成為本公司之聯營公司。於完成上述步
驟後，本年度投資控股分部錄得收益淨
額 約 79,000,000 港 元（二零一三年：約
4,000,000港元）。

經與多名顧問、工程師、供應商及服務
供 應 商 達 成 合 約 後， 不 丹 王 國 境 內 酒
店發展項目的建設工程於本年度動工，
較二零一五年的原定日期為早。該酒店
發展項目由本集團持有三分之一股本的
項 目 公 司「Bhutan Ventures Hospitality 
Private Limited」擁 有。 根 據 建 築 工 程
成本顧問的意見，建築成本估計金額較
原 先 估 計 超 出 約 5,000,000 美 元。 項 目
公 司 各 股 東 已 於 年 內 透 過 額 外 注 資 股
本、 為 額 外 成 本 提 供 資 金。 本 集 團 目
前 已 向 項 目 公 司 注 資 約 6,670,000 美 元
（相 等 於 約 52,000,000 港 元 ）。 除 股 本
外， 項 目 公 司 現 正 向 一 所 銀 行 申 請 辦
理 一 筆 為 數 30,000,000 美 元（相 等 於 約
234,000,000 港 元 ）而 毋 須 股 東 擔 保 的
長期項目貸款，為建築成本籌集融資。
由於本集團的不丹合夥人（即不丹王子
Sangay Wangchuk） 及 以「Six Senses 
Resorts and Spas」名義經營的知名酒店
營運商 Sustainable Luxury Management 
(Thailand) Limited 積極參與該酒店發展
項目，董事會相信，相關的建築工程及
項目公司正在尋求的銀行貸款於來年能
夠全速進行。

7

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDChairman’s Statement主席報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告With shareholders’ approval, the Company implemented a subdivision 
of  each  issued  share  into  five  subdivided  shares  effective  in  March 
2014 and another subdivision of each issued share into ten subdivided 
shares  effective  in  December  2014.  The  reduction  in  the  market 
value  per  board  lot  of  shares  in  the  Company  as  a  result  of  the 
share  subdivisions  has  improved  the  trading  liquidity  of  the  shares 
in  the  Company,  apart  from  enabling  the  Company  to  broaden  its 
shareholders’  base.  Having  considered  the  impressive  financial 
performance  of  the  Group  during  the  Year  and  in  recognition  of  the 
continual  support  of  the  shareholders,  the  Company  issued  bonus 
shares in September 2014 on the basis of one bonus share for every 
four  shares  and  issued  another  round  of  bonus  shares  in  December 
2014  on  the  basis  of  one  bonus  share  for  every  two  shares.  These 
share subdivisions and bonus issues increased the number of issued 
shares  in  the  Company  from  150,554,164  shares  to  14,114,452,875 
shares during the Year, represented by the Company’s paid-up share 
capital currently standing at approximately HK$2,400 million.

經股東批准後，自二零一四年三月起本
公司將每股已發行股份分拆為五股拆細
股份，另外自二零一四年十二月起又將
每股已發行股份分拆為十股拆細股份。
由於股份拆細，本公司每手買賣單位股
份之市值相應降低，從而已提高本公司
股份買賣之交投量，並使本公司擴闊股
東基礎。經考慮本集團於本年度取得驕
人 財 務 表 現， 亦 為 答 謝 股 東 向 來 之 支
持，本公司於二零一四年九月按每四股
股份獲送一股紅股之基準派送紅股，並
於 二 零 一 四 年 十 二 月 按 每 兩 股 股 份 獲
送 一 股 紅 股 之 基 準 派 送 另 一 輪 紅 股。
股 份 分 拆 及 派 送 紅 股 使 本 年 度 本 公 司
已 發 行 股 份 數 目 由 150,554,164 股 增 至
14,114,452,875 股， 組 成 現 時 本 公 司 繳
足股本達約 2,400,000,000 港元。

Taking  advantage  of  the  Group’s  low  gearing  ratio  and  credit-
worthiness,  the  Company  has  attempted  to  raise  long-term  debt 
finance  to  strengthen  the  Group’s  working  capital.  During  the  Year, 
the Company successfully issued two unsecured bonds with principal 
amount of HK$10 million each to two independent third-party investors 
separately. The bonds would last for 7 years and would accrue interest 
at 5% per annum payable to the investors.

憑藉本集團之低資產負債比率及信譽，
本公司力圖籌集長期債務融資，以增強
本集團之營運資金。於本年度，本公司
向兩名獨立第三方投資者分別成功發行
兩項本金額均為 10,000,000 港元之無抵
押債券。債券為期 7 年，每年應向投資者
支付之利息按 5% 計算產生。

Given  the  prospect  of  interest  rate  rises  in  the  United  States  coming 
along with big quantitative easing programs rolling out in the Eurozone 
and  Asia  Pacific,  uncertainties  and  volatility  in  the  worldwide  stock 
markets  are  expected  to  resurface.  Under  such  macroeconomic 
environment, the Board envisages challenges as well as opportunities 
in managing the Group’s investments in the coming year.

鑒於美國未來可能提高利率，以及歐元
區 及 亞 太 地 區 推 出 大 規 模 量 化 寛 鬆 計
劃，預期全球股票市場將重現不確定性
及不穩定性。在此宏觀經濟條件下，董
事 會 預 見 來 年 在 管 理 本 集 團 之 投 資 方
面，挑戰與機遇並存。

In  view  of  the  persistent  rising  trend  of  property  prices  due  to  the 
limited land supply in Hong Kong, the Group has recently strengthened 
its  portfolio  of  properties  by  acquiring  one  more  property  in  January 
2015 amounting to HK$24 million and will complete acquisition of one 
more  property  in  April  2015  amounting  to  HK$25.5  million.  To  pave 
way for the Company to develop future business opportunities jointly 
with business partners, the Company signed a subscription agreement 
with Mission Capital Holdings Limited (stock code: 1141) to issue and 
hold shares of each  other  amounting  to  HK$150 million and pending 
completion.  Save  as  disclosed  above,  there  has  been  no  important 
event affecting the Company and its subsidiaries since the end of the 
Year.

由於香港土地供應有限，房價一直呈上
升趨勢，本集團近期於二零一五年一月
以 24,000,000 港 元 收 購 多 一 項 物 業，
並 將 於 二 零 一 五 年 四 月 以 25,500,000
港元完成收購另一項物業，以增強物業
組合。為本公司與商業合作夥伴共同發
掘未來商機而鋪路，本公司與保興資本
控 股 有 限 公 司（股 份 代 號：1141）簽 署
認購協議，以發行及相互持有對方為數
150,000,000 港元之股份，有關事項尚待
完成。除上文所披露者外，自本年度末
以來並無影響本公司及其附屬公司之重
大事件。

8

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Chairman’s Statement主席報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告FINANCIAL REVIEW

財務回顧

Liquidity and Capital Resources

流動資金及資本資源

As  at  31  December  2014,  the  Group  had  a  secured  bank  loan  of 
approximately HK$4 million (2013: approximately HK$4 million) carrying 
floating interest rates calculated by reference to the Hong Kong Inter-
bank Offer Rate and containing a repayment on demand clause, which 
is repayable over five years according to the repayment schedule of the 
loan facility and denominated in Hong Kong dollars.

於 二 零 一 四 年 十 二 月 三 十 一 日， 本 集
團 之 有 抵 押 銀 行 貸 款 約 4,000,000 港 元
（二零一三年：約4,000,000港元）， 當
中之浮動利率參考香港銀行同業拆息而
計算，含按要求償還條款，按照獲授貸
款信貸之還款時間表，還款時間超逾五
年，並以港元計值。

As  most  of  the  Group’s  transactions  and  bank  balances  were 
denominated in Hong  Kong  dollars  and  US  dollars and a transaction 
in  Euro  being  hedged  by  a  back-to-back  transaction,  the  Group’s 
exposure  to  foreign  exchange  rate  was  minimal.  The  Group  did  not 
have any financial instruments used for hedging purpose.

由於本集團之交易及銀行結餘均以港元
及美元計值，以及以歐元計值的交易由
背對背交易所對沖，故本集團之外匯匯
率風險極低。本集團並無持有任何用作
對沖之財務工具。

During  the  Year,  the  Company  successfully  raised  long-term  debt 
finance  by  issuing  two  bonds.  The  Company  issued  two  unsecured 
bonds  in  the  principal  amount  of  HK$10  million  each,  one  in  May 
2014 and the other in November 2014, to two independent third-party 
investors  separately.  The  bonds  would  last  for  7  years  and  would 
accrue interest at 5% per annum payable to the investors.

As  at  31  December  2014,  the  Group’s  total  equity  amounted  to 
approximately  HK$2,566  million,  an  increase  of  42  %  as  compared 
with  approximately  HK$1,811  million  as  at  31  December  2013.  The 
Group  had  net  current  assets  of  approximately  HK$989  million 
including bank balances and cash of approximately HK$176 million as 
compared to approximately HK$1,169 million including bank balances 
and  cash  of  approximately  HK$50  million  as  at  31  December  2013. 
As at 31 December 2014, a bank loan of approximately HK$4 million 
(at 31 December 2013: approximately HK$4 million)  carrying  floating 
interest rates by reference to the Hong Kong Inter-bank Offer Rate and 
containing  a  repayment  on  demand  clause.  The  Group  continued  to 
maintain nil gearing ratio as computed on the basis of net borrowings 
to  total  equity  and  with  a  current  ratio  of  74  times (at 31 December 
2013: 168 times).

於本年度，本公司透過發行兩次債券籌
得 長 期 債 務 融 資。 本 公 司 向 兩 名 獨 立
第三方投資者分別發行兩次本金額均為
10,000,000 港 元 之 無 抵 押 債 券， 一 次
於二零一四年五月發行，另一次於二零
一四年十一月發行。債券為期 7 年，每年
應向投資者支付之利息按 5% 計算產生。

於 二 零 一 四 年 十 二 月 三 十 一 日， 本 集
團 之 總 權 益 約 為 2,566,000,000 港 元，
較 於 二 零 一 三 年 十 二 月 三 十 一 日 約
1,811,000,000 港元增加 42%。本集團之
淨流動資產約為 989,000,000 港元（包括
銀行結餘及現金約 176,000,000 港元），
而 於 二 零 一 三 年 十 二 月 三 十 一 日 約 為
1,169,000,000 港 元（包 括 銀 行 結 餘 及 現
金 約 50,000,000 港 元 ）。 於 二 零 一 四 年
十二月三十一日，銀行貸款約 4,000,000
港元（於二零一三年十二月三十一日：約
4,000,000港元）參考香港銀行同業拆息
按浮動年利率計息，並設有按要求時償
還條款。本集團繼續維持零資產負債比
率（按借貸淨額與總權益之比率計算），
而流動比率則為 74 倍（於二零一三年十二
月三十一日：168倍）。

9

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDChairman’s Statement主席報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告Pursuant  to  a  subscription  agreement  dated  17  March  2015,  the 
Company  agreed  to  allot  and  issue  1,250,000,000  new  shares  to 
Mission Capital Holdings Limited under the existing general mandate 
for a total consideration of HK$150 million, which is intended to finance 
the  Company’s  proposed  subscription  for  1,500,000,000  new  shares 
to be issued by Mission Capital Holdings Limited. These transactions 
contemplated  under  the  subscription  agreement  have  not  yet  been 
completed.

根據日期為二零一五年三月十七日之認
購協議，本公司同意根據現有一般授權
以總代價 150,000,000 港元，向保興資本
控股有限公司配發及發行 1,250,000,000
股 新 股， 此 舉 旨 在 為 本 公 司 計 劃 認
購 保 興 資 本 控 股 有 限 公 司 將 予 發 行 之
1,500,000,000 股新股提供資金。根據認
購協議擬進行之此等交易尚未完成。

PLEDGE OF ASSETS

資產抵押

As  at  31  December  2014,  the  Group’s  financial  assets  at  fair  value 
through  profit  or  loss  and  certain  available-for-sale  financial  assets 
(2013: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, bank balances 
and certain available-for-sale financial assets)  with  an  aggregate 
carrying amount of approximately HK$384 million (2013: approximately 
HK$1,011 million)  were  pledged  to  certain  financial  institutions  and 
securities brokers to secure certain margin financing and loan facilities 
amounted  to  approximately  HK$166  million (2013: approximately 
HK$483 million)  granted  to  the  Group  of  which  none  of  the  amount 
(2013: none) was utilised at the end of the Year.

As  at  31  December  2014,  the  Group’s  investment  properties  were 
pledged  to  secure  a  bank  loan  facility  of  approximately  HK$5  million 
(2013: HK$5 million).

於二零一四年十二月三十一日，本集團
賬面總值約 384,000,000 港元（二零一三
年：約1,011,000,000港元）之按公平值
計入損益之財務資產及若干可供出售財
務資產（二零一三年：按公平值計入損益
之財務資產、銀行結餘及若干可供出售
財務資產）已抵押予若干金融機構及證券
經紀，作為本集團所獲若干孖展融資及
信貸約 166,000,000 港元（二零一三年：
約483,000,000港元）之擔保，於本年度
末並無動用任何款項（二零一三年：無）。

於 二 零 一 四 年 十 二 月 三 十 一 日， 本 集
團 之 投 資 物 業 已 予 以 抵 押， 作 為 銀 行
信 貸 約 5,000,000 港 元（二零一三年：
5,000,000港元）之擔保。

CAPITAL EXPENDITURE COMMITMENTS

資本開支承擔

As  at  31  December  2014,  the  Group  had  capital  expenditure 
commitments  contracted  but  not  provided  for  amounting  to 
approximately HK$65 million (2013: approximately HK$13,000).

於 二 零 一 四 年 十 二 月 三 十 一 日， 本 集
團 已 訂 約 但 未 撥 備 之 資 本 開 支 承 擔 約
65,000,000 港元（二零一三年：約13,000
港元）。

CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

或然負債

As at 31 December 2014, the Group had provided corporate guarantee 
for banking facilities amounting to approximately HK$14 million (2013: 
approximately HK$14 million)  granted  to  an  ex-subsidiary,  which 
was  utilised  to  the  extent  of  approximately  HK$14  million (2013: 
approximately HK$14 million).

於 二 零 一 四 年 十 二 月 三 十 一 日， 本 集
團 已 就 一 家 前 附 屬 公 司 獲 授 之 銀 行 信
貸 約 14,000,000 港 元（二零一三年：約
14,000,000港元）提供公司擔保，其中已
動用信貸額約 14,000,000 港元（二零一三
年：約14,000,000港元）。

10

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Chairman’s Statement主席報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告EMPLOYEES

僱員

As at 31 December 2014, the Group employed 23 (2013: 20) employees 
excluding  directors.  The  Group  remunerates  its  employees  based 
on  their  performance,  working  experience  and  prevailing  market 
standards.  Employee  benefits  include  medical  insurance  coverage, 
mandatory provident fund and share option scheme.

於二零一四年十二月三十一日，本集團
共聘用 23 名僱員（二零一三年：20名僱
員）不包括董事。本集團根據僱員之表
現、工作經驗及當時之市場標準釐定僱
員酬金。員工福利包括醫療保險、強制
性公積金及購股權計劃。

APPRECIATION

致謝

I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  Mr.  Wen  Louis  for  his 
contributions  to  the  Board  until  his  resignation  by  the  end  of  August 
2014; and to appreciate Mr. Wong Ying Seung Asiong’s contributions 
to the Group by continuing his service in the capacity as an employee 
of the Group after his resignation from the Board in mid-October 2014.

本人謹此感謝溫耒先生於二零一四年八
月底辭任前對董事會所作之貢獻；並感
謝王迎祥先生於二零一四年十月中旬從
董事會缷任後，透過以本集團僱員身份
繼續提供服務而對本集團作出貢獻。

I would like to express its sincere gratitude to our business partners, 
employees, and shareholders for their continuous support.

本 人 謹 此 向 一 直 支 持 本 公 司 之 業 務 夥
伴、僱員及股東致以誠摯謝意。

By order of the Board
Willie International Holdings Limited

承董事會命
威利國際控股有限公司

Dr. Chuang Yueheng, Henry
Chairman

主席
莊友衡博士

30 March 2015

二零一五年三月三十日

11

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDChairman’s Statement主席報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

執行董事

Dr.  Chuang  Yueheng,  Henry,  aged  59,  has  been  appointed  as 
the  Chairman  of  the  Company  since  year  2002.  He  holds  Master’s 
degrees  in  Petroleum  Engineering  and  in  Business  Administration 
from  the  University  of  Southern  California  in  the  United  States  of 
America. In 2007, Dubna University of Russia awarded Dr. Chuang an 
Honorary  Doctorate  degree  in  Petroleum  Engineering  in  recognition 
of  his  achievements  in  the  field  of  petroleum  engineering.  He  has 
over  20  years  of  experience  in  corporate  finance  and  development. 
From  February  2011  to  November  2012,  he  was  formerly  the  deputy 
chairman and a non-executive director of Mascotte Holdings Limited, 
a company listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the 
“Stock Exchange”).

Mr.  Cheung  Wing  Ping,  aged  48,  was  initially  appointed  as  an 
independent non-executive director of the Company from 2009 to June 
2013 and since July 2013, he has been re-designated as an executive 
director of the Company. Mr. Cheung has over 20 years of experience 
in  auditing  and  accounting  fields.  He  holds  a  Bachelor’s  degree  in 
Accountancy with honours from City University of Hong Kong and is a 
fellow member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants 
and  an  associate  member  of  the  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified 
Public Accountants. Mr. Cheung was formerly an executive director of 
Radford Capital Investment Limited from June 2011 to November 2013 
and  is  presently  an  independent  non-executive  director  of  Freeman 
Financial Corporation Limited, all of which are publicly listed companies 
in Hong Kong.

Ms. Cheung Ka Yee, aged 33, has been appointed as a Director of the 
Company since July 2013. She holds a Master’s degree in Mathematics 
from  the  California  State  University  in  the  United  States  of  America. 
Ms.  Cheung  first  joined  the  Company  in  September  2009  as  the 
management assistant responsible for assisting the senior management 
of the Company in  business  administration  and development. Before 
joining the Company, Ms. Cheung worked as an instructor in a tertiary 
college in the United States of America for around 2 years.

莊友衡博士，現年 59 歲，自二零零二年
起獲委任為本公司主席。彼持有美國南
加州大學石油工程學碩士學位及工商管
理碩士學位。於二零零七年，俄羅斯杜
布納大學向莊博士頒授石油工程學榮譽
博士學位，表揚其於石油工程領域之成
就。彼於企業財務及發展工作方面積逾
二十年經驗。由二零一一年二月至二零
一二年十一月，彼曾擔任馬斯葛集團有
限公司（於香港聯合交易所有限公司（「聯
交所」）上市之公司）的副主席兼非執行董
事。

張榮平先生，現年 48 歲，最初由二零零
九年至二零一三年六月獲委任為本公司
之獨立非執行董事，其後自二零一三年
七月，彼調任為本公司之執行董事。張
先生於審核及會計領域擁有逾二十年經
驗。彼持有香港城市大學榮譽會計學士
學位，並為英國特許會計師公會資深會
員及香港會計師公會會員。張先生於二
零一一年六月至二零一三年十一月曾擔
任萊福資本投資有限公司之執行董事，
及現為民豐企業控股有限公司之獨立非
執行董事，上述公司均為於香港之上市
公司。

張嘉儀小姐，現年 33 歲，自二零一三年
七月起獲委任為本公司董事。彼持有美
國加尼福尼亞州立大學數學碩士學位。
張小姐自二零零九年九月起加入本公司
最初出任管理層助理，負責協助本公司
高層管理人員管理及拓展業務。在加入
本公司之前，張小姐曾於美國一所專上
學院擔任約兩年的導師工作。

12

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Biographies of Directors董事簡歷 2014 Annual Report  年度報告Mr.  Man  Wai  Chuen,  aged  51,  has  been  appointed  as  a  Director  of 
the Company since July 2013 and also acts as the Company Secretary 
of  the  Company.  Mr.  Man  holds  a  Master’s  degree  in  Business 
Administration from the University of Sheffield in the United Kingdom. 
He  is  a  fellow  member  of  the  Association  of  Chartered  Certified 
Accountants  and  the  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Chartered  Secretaries 
and  an  associate  member  of  the  Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified 
Public Accountants.  He  has  over  20  years  of  experience in company 
secretarial and accounting fields. Mr. Man is presently an independent 
non-executive director of Mission Capital Holdings Limited, which is a 
company listed on the Stock Exchange.

文 惠 存 先 生， 現 年 51 歲， 自 二 零 一 三
年七月起獲委任為本公司董事，彼同時
擔任本公司之公司秘書。文先生獲英國
謝菲爾德大學工商管理碩士學位。彼為
英國特許公認會計師公會及香港特許秘
書公會資深會員，亦為香港會計師公會
會員。彼於公司秘書及會計領域擁有逾
二十年經驗。文先生現為保興資本控股
有限公司（於聯交所上市之公司）之獨立
非執行董事。

INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

獨立非執行董事

Mr.  Yau  Yan  Ming,  Raymond,  aged  46,  has  been  appointed  as  a 
Director of the Company since year 2006. He holds a Master’s degree 
in  Science  majoring  in  Japanese  business  studies  and  Bachelor’s 
degree in Business Administration majoring in accounting in the United 
States  of  America.  He  is  a  Certified  Public  Accountant  both  in  Hong 
Kong and in the United States of America and is also a Certified Tax 
Adviser  in  Hong  Kong.  He  is  also  an  associate  member  of  both  the 
Hong  Kong  Institute  of  Certified  Public  Accountants  and  American 
Institute of Certified Public Accountants and also a fellow member of 
the Taxation Institute of Hong Kong. He has over 20 years of working 
experience  in  the  areas  of  auditing,  accounting,  taxation,  company 
secretarial, corporate finance and financial management. Mr. Yau was 
formerly an executive director of Capital VC Limited from March 2012 
to May 2012 and an independent non-executive director of Birmingham 
International Holdings Limited from October 2007 to May 2013. He is 
presently  an  executive  director  of  Chinese  Energy  Holdings  Limited, 
an  independent  non-executive  director  of  Tack  Fiori  International 
Group  Limited,  Chanceton  Financial  Group  Limited  and  Enterprise 
Development  Holdings  Limited,  all  of  which  are  publicly  listed 
companies in Hong Kong.

邱恩明先生，現年 46 歲，自二零零六年
起獲委任為本公司董事。彼持有美國理
學碩士學位（主修日本商業研究）及工商
管理學士學位（主修會計）。彼為香港及
美國註冊會計師及香港註冊稅務顧問，
亦為香港會計師公會及美國會計師公會
會員以及香港稅務學會資深會員。彼於
審核、會計、稅務、公司秘書、企業財
務及財務管理方面累積逾二十年經驗。
邱先生於二零一二年三月至二零一二年
五月期間曾為首都創投有限公司之執行
董事及於二零零七年十月至二零一三年
五月期間曾為伯明翰環球控股有限公司
之獨立非執行董事。彼現為華夏能源控
股有限公司之主席兼執行董事，以及野
馬國際集團有限公司、川盟金融集團有
限公司及企展控股有限公司之獨立非執
行董事，上述公司均為香港之上市公司。

13

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDBiographies of Directors董事簡歷2014 Annual Report  年度報告Mr. Frank H. Miu, aged 66, has been appointed as a Director of the 
Company  since  June  2011.  He  holds  a  Juris  Doctor  degree  from 
Harvard Law School and a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics and 
Accounting from St. John’s University of Minnesota. He is a member 
of the American Bar Association and the American Institute of Certified 
Public  Accountants.  He  is  also  a  Fellow  of  Hong  Kong  Institute  of 
Directors. Apart from  professional  experience  in law and accounting, 
he  has  extensive  exposure  to  various  industries  including  financial 
services. Mr. Miu was formerly an independent non-executive director 
of  the  Company  from  March  2004  to  March  2007;  an  independent 
non-executive director of Freeman Financial Corporation Limited from 
December  2011  to  August  2013;  and  an  independent  non-executive 
director of Tack Fiori International Group Limited from August 2011 to 
May 2014. Mr. Miu is presently an independent non-executive director 
of  Mascotte  Holdings  Limited  and  China  Jinhai  International  Group 
Limited (formerly known as ICube Technology Holdings Limited). Aside 
from  directorships  in  the  aforesaid  public  companies  listed  on  the 
Stock Exchange, he is also an independent non-executive director of 
Duoyuan Global Water Inc., a public company formerly listed on New 
York Stock Exchange.

Dr. Antonio Maria Santos, aged 58, has been appointed as a Director 
of the Company since 1 August 2012. Dr. Santos holds a Ph. D. degree 
in Business Administration from the Neuva Ecija University of Science 
&  Technology  in  the  Philippines,  a  Master’s  degree  in  Management 
Studies  from  University  of  Northumbria  at  Newcastle,  U.K.  and  a 
Master’s  degree  in  Criminal  Justice  from  the  Tarlac  State  University, 
the Philippines. He is a Fellow of the Chartered Management Institute, 
U.K.  Dr.  Santos  retired  from  the  Hong  Kong  Police  Force  in  January 
2012 after more than 30 years of service there. Apart from volunteering 
for  community  services,  he  is  currently  the  chief  operations  officer 
of  Advance  Tactics  Service  Limited  (a  private  company  principally 
engaged  in  providing  personal  and  commercial  security  services  in 
Hong Kong). Dr. Santos is also presently an independent non-executive 
director  of  Auto  Italia  Holdings  Limited  (a  publicly  listed  company  in 
Hong  Kong)  and  the  chairman  &  executive  director  of  China  Solar 
Energy Holdings Limited (a publicly listed company in Hong Kong with 
the trading of shares having been suspended).

繆希先生，現年 66 歲，自二零一一年六
月起獲委任為本公司董事，彼獲美國哈
佛大學法學院 Juris Doctor 法律學位及明
尼蘇達州聖約翰大學經濟及會計文學士
學位。彼為美國律師協會會員、美國註
冊會計師公會會員及香港董事學會資深
會員。除擁有法律及會計專業經驗外，
繆先生在其他各領域（包括金融服務）亦
具有豐富經驗。繆先生曾於二零零四年
三月至二零零七年三月期間擔任本公司
之獨立非執行董事；於二零一一年十二
月至二零一三年八月期間曾任民豐企業
控股有限公司之獨立非執行董事；以及
於二零一一年八月至二零一四年五月期
間曾任野馬國際集團有限公司之獨立非
執行董事。繆先生現為馬斯葛集團有限
公司及中國金海國際集團有限公司（前稱
中國微電子科技集團有限公司）之獨立非
執行董事。除在上述於聯交所上市之公
司擔任董事外，彼亦為過往曾於紐約交
易所上市之公司多元環球水務出任獨立
非執行董事。

杜東尼博士，58 歲，自二零一二年八月
一日起獲委任為本公司董事。杜博士持
有菲律賓共和國紐省科技大學工商管理
博士學位、英國紐卡素諾桑比亞大學管
理學碩士學位及菲律賓太歷國立大學刑
事審判學碩士學位。彼亦為英國特許管
理學院資深會員。杜博士在香港警務處
服務逾三十年於二零一二年一月退休。
彼現時除參與社區服務之義務工作外，
現為領先策略事務所有限公司（一家於香
港主力提供個人及商業保安服務之私人
公司）之營運總監。杜博士現亦為意達利
控股有限公司（香港上市公司）之獨立非
執行董事及中國源暢光電能源控股有限
公司（香港上市公司而有關股份暫停買
賣）之主席兼執行董事。

14

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Biographies of Directors董事簡歷 2014 Annual Report  年度報告The  board  of  Directors  (the  “Board”)  submits  their  annual  report 
together with the audited consolidated financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2014 (the “Year”).

董事會（「董事會」）提呈截至二零一四年
十二月三十一日止年度（「本年度」）之年
度報告及經審核綜合財務報表。

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

主要業務

The  Group  is  principally  engaged  in  the  business  of  trading  of 
investments,  provision  of  financial  services,  property  investment 
and  investment  holding.  Details  of  the  principal  activities  and  other 
particulars of the Company’s principal subsidiaries are set out in note 
16 to the consolidated financial statements.

本集團主要從事買賣投資、提供金融服
務、物業投資及投資控股業務。有關本
公司之主要附屬公司的主要業務之詳情
及其他資料，載於綜合財務報表附註 16。

RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS

業績及股息

The results of the  Group  for  the  Year  are  set  out in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income on pages 34 and 35.

本集團之本年度業績載於第 34 及 35 頁之
綜合全面收益表內。

The  Board  does  not  recommend  the  payment  of  a  dividend  for  the 
Year.

董事會不建議派付本年度股息。

RESERVES

儲備

Movements  in  the  reserves  of  the  Group  and  the  Company  during 
the  Year  are  set  out  in  the  consolidated  statement  of  changes  in 
equity from pages 39 to 40 and note 30 to the consolidated financial 
statements respectively.

本集團及本公司於本年度之儲備變動分
別載於第 39 至 40 頁之綜合權益變動表及
綜合財務報表附註 30。

FINANCIAL SUMMARY

財務摘要

A summary of the results and of the assets and liabilities of the Group 
for the past five financial years is set out on pages 135 and 136.

本集團於過去五個財政年度之業績與資
產及負債摘要載於第 135 及 136 頁。

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

物業、廠房及設備

Details of movements in property, plant and equipment of the Group 
during  the  Year  are  set  out  in  note  15  to  the  consolidated  financial 
statements.

本集團之物業、廠房及設備於本年度之
變動詳情載於綜合財務報表附註 15。

BORROWINGS

借款

Details  of  the  interest-bearing  borrowing  of  the  Group  are  set  out  in 
note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.

本集團之計息借款詳情載於綜合財務報
表附註 26。

15

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDDirectors’ Report董事會報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE OPTIONS

股本及購股權

Details of movements in the Company’s share capital and share options 
during  the  Year  are  set  out  in  notes  29  and  31  to  the  consolidated 
financial statements respectively. As at 31 December 2014, neither the 
Company nor any of its subsidiaries had outstanding share options.

本公司於本年度之股本及購股權變動詳
情分別載於綜合財務報表附註 29 及 31。
於二零一四年十二月三十一日，本公司
或其任何附屬公司概無尚未行使之購股
權。

PURCHASE, SALE OR REDEMPTION OF SECURITIES

購買、出售或贖回證券

During  the  Year,  neither  the  Company  nor  any  of  its  subsidiaries 
purchased,  sold  or  redeemed  any  of  the  listed  securities  of  the 
Company.

本年度內，本公司及其任何附屬公司概
無購買、出售或贖回本公司之任何上市
證券。

DIRECTORS

董事

The Directors of the  Company  during  the  Year and up to the date of 
this report were:

於本年度及截至本報告日期止，本公司
之董事為：

Executive Directors
Chuang Yueheng, Henry
Cheung Wing Ping
Cheung Ka Yee
Man Wai Chuen
Wong Ying Seung, Asiong (resigned with effect from 16 October 2014)

執行董事
莊友衡
張榮平
張嘉儀
文惠存
王迎祥（於二零一四年十月十六日辭任）

Independent Non-executive Directors
Yau Yan Ming, Raymond
Frank H. Miu
Antonio Maria Santos
Wen Louis (resigned with effect from 1 September 2014)

獨立非執行董事
邱恩明
繆希
杜東尼
溫耒（於二零一四年九月一日辭任）

Pursuant to Article 115 of the Articles of Association, Mr. Cheung Wing 
Ping, Mr. Yau Yan Ming, Raymond and Dr. Antonio Maria Santos will 
retire by rotation at the forthcoming annual general meeting and, being 
eligible, offer themselves for re-election at that meeting.

根據章程細則第 115 條，張榮平先生、
邱恩明先生及杜東尼博士將於應屆股東
週年大會上輪席告退，彼等合符資格膺
選連任。

16

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Directors’ Report董事會報告 2014 Annual Report  年度報告The term of office for Dr. Antonio Maria Santos is for a period of one 
year and that for Mr. Yau Yan Ming, Raymond is for a period of three 
years while Mr. Cheung Wing Ping has no fixed length of service, but 
subject to retirement by rotation and re-election at the general meetings 
of the Company in accordance with the Articles of Association of the 
Company.  The  Directors  proposed  for  re-election  at  the  forthcoming 
annual  general  meeting  do  not  have  service  contracts  which  are  not 
determinable  by  the  Company  within  one  year  without  payment  of 
compensation other than statutory compensation.

杜東尼博士之任期為一年，邱恩明先生
之任期為三年，而張榮平先生則無固定
服務年期，惟須根據本公司之章程細則
於本公司股東大會上輪席告退及膺選連
任。於應屆股東週年大會上獲提名膺選
連任之董事，並無訂立本公司不可於一
年內不作補償（法定補償除外）而終止之
服務合約。

DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS AND SHORT POSITIONS IN SHARES 

董事於股份及相關股份之權益及淡倉

AND UNDERLYING SHARES

As  at  31  December  2014,  the  interests  and  short  positions  of  the 
Directors  and  chief  executive  of  the  Company  in  shares,  underlying 
shares and debentures of the Company or its associated corporation 
(within the meaning of Part XV of the Securities and Futures Ordinance 
(the  “SFO”)),  as  recorded  in  the  register  required  to  be  kept  by  the 
Company pursuant to Section 352 of the SFO, or as otherwise notified 
to the Company and the Stock Exchange pursuant to the Model Code 
for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers (the “Model 
Code”), were as follows:

於二零一四年十二月三十一日，本公司
董事及最高行政人員於本公司或其相聯
法團（定義見證券及期貨條例（「證券及期
貨條例」）第 XV 部）之股份、相關股份及
債券中擁有須記錄於本公司根據證券及
期貨條例第 352 條存置之登記冊或根據
上市發行人之董事進行證券交易之標準
守則（「標準守則」）須知會本公司及聯交
所之權益及淡倉如下：

Long  positions  in  ordinary  shares  and  underlying  shares  of  the 
Company as at 31 December 2014:

於二零一四年十二月三十一日，於本公
司普通股及相關股份之好倉如下：

Name of Director
董事姓名

Nature of interest
權益性質

Chuang Yueheng, Henry
莊友衡

Beneficial interest
實益權益

Number of
ordinary
shares held
所持普通股數目

Approximate
percentage
of shareholding
股權概約百分比

2,918,464,965

20.68%

At  no  time  during  the  Year  was  the  Company,  any  of  its  holding 
company, subsidiaries or fellow subsidiaries a party to any arrangement 
to enable the Directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of 
the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the Company or any other 
body corporate.

本公司、其任何控股公司、附屬公司或
同系附屬公司概無於本年度任何時間訂
立任何安排，致使本公司董事透過收購
本公司或任何其他法人團體之股份或債
券而獲取利益。

17

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDDirectors’ Report董事會報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS

董事於合約之權益

There  was  no  contract  of  significance  to  which  the  Company,  its 
holding company or subsidiaries was a party and in which a Director 
of the Company had a material interest, whether directly or indirectly, 
subsisted at the end of the Year or at any time during the Year.

於本年度末或於本年度任何時間，概無
任何本公司、其控股公司或附屬公司參
與訂立而本公司董事於其中直接或間接
擁有重大權益之重大合約。

SUBSTANTIAL  SHAREHOLDERS’  AND  OTHER  PERSONS’ 

主要股東及其他人士於股份及相關股份

INTERESTS  AND  SHORT  POSITIONS  IN  SHARES  AND 

之權益及淡倉

UNDERLYING SHARES

As at 31 December 2014, the following interests and short positions of 
5% or more of the  issued  share  capital  and  underlying shares of the 
Company  (other  than  a  Director  or  chief  executive  of  the  Company) 
were  recorded  in  the  register  of  interests  required  to  be  kept  by  the 
Company pursuant to Section 336 of the SFO:

於二零一四年十二月三十一日，本公司
根據證券及期貨條例第 336 條所存置之
權益登記冊記錄以下人士（並非本公司董
事或最高行政人員）持有本公司已發行股
本及相關股份 5% 或以上之權益及淡倉：

Long position

Name 
名稱

Nature of interest
權益性質

Mission Capital
  Holdings Limited
保興資本控股有限公司

Interest of controlled
  corporation (Note)
所控制法團權益（附註）

好倉

Number of
ordinary
shares held
所持普通股數目

Approximate
percentage 
of shareholding
股權概約百分比

1,361,250,000

9.64%

Note: These  shares  are  held  by  Xin  Corporation  (HK)  Limited  which  is  a 

company wholly owned by Mission Capital Holdings Limited.

附註：  該等股份由保興資本控股有限公司全資
擁有的公司新創綜合企業（香港）有限公
司持有。

Save as disclosed above, as at 31 December 2014, no person, other 
than the Directors of the Company, whose interests are set out herein 
this report, had registered an interest or short position in the shares or 
underlying  shares  of  the  Company  that  was  required  to  be  recorded 
pursuant to Section 336 of the SFO.

除上文所披露者外，於二零一四年十二
月三十一日，概無任何人士（本公司董事
除外，其權益已載於本報告）於本公司股
份或相關股份中擁有須根據證券及期貨
條例第 336 條記錄之權益或淡倉。

RETIREMENT SCHEME

退休計劃

The  Group  provides  a  defined  contribution  retirement  scheme  under 
the Mandatory Provident Fund Scheme (the “MPF Scheme”) in Hong 
Kong  to  all  staff.  Under  the  MPF  Scheme,  employer  and  employees 
are each required  to  make  contributions  to  the scheme at 5% of the 
employees’ relevant income. Details of the retirement scheme are set 
out in note 33 to the consolidated financial statements.

本集團根據香港強制性公積金計劃（「強
積金計劃」）為所有僱員提供一項界定供
款退休計劃。根據強積金計劃，僱主及
僱員各自須按僱員有關收入之 5% 向計劃
供款。退休計劃的詳情載於綜合財務報
表附註 33。

18

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Directors’ Report董事會報告 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MAJOR CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS

主要客戶及供應商

During  the  Year,  the  percentages  to  the  Group’s  turnover  (including 
turnover  arising  from  provision  of  financial  services,  property 
investment and investment holding segments) attributable to its largest 
customer  and  five  largest  customers  were  approximately  16%  and 
51% respectively.

本年度最大客戶及五大客戶佔本集團營
業額（包括提供金融服務、物業投資及投
資控股分部之營業額）之百分比分別為約
16% 及 51%。

As  the  Group  had  no  significant  purchases  during  the  Year,  the 
information on major suppliers is not presented.

由於本集團在本年度並無重大採購，故
並無呈列主要供應商的資料。

Save as aforementioned, at no time during the Year did a director, an 
associate of a director or a shareholder of the Company (which to the 
knowledge of the Directors of the Company owned more than 5% of 
the Company’s issued share capital) have any material interest in any 
of the Group’s five largest customers.

除 上 文 所 披 露 者 外， 於 本 年 度 任 何 時
間，本公司董事、董事之聯繫人士或本
公司股東（據本公司董事所知擁有本公司
已發行股本超過 5% 者）並無於本集團五
大客戶擁有任何重大權益。

MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS

管理合約

No  contracts  concerning  the  management  and  administration  of  the 
whole  or  any  substantial  part  of  the  business  of  the  Company  were 
entered into or existed during the Year.

本年度並無訂立或存在任何有關本公司
整體業務或任何重要部分之管理及行政
的合約。

ISSUE OF BONDS

發行債券

During  the  Year,  the  Company  issued  two  unsecured  bonds  in  the 
principal amount of HK$10 million each, one in May 2014 and the other 
in November 2014, to two independent third-party investors separately. 
The bonds would last for 7 years and would accrue interest at 5% per 
annum payable to the investors.

年內，本公司於二零一四年五月及二零
一四年十一月分別向兩名獨立第三方投
資者發行兩項本金額均為 10,000,000 港
元之無抵押債券。債券將持續 7 年並將以
年利率 5 厘向投資者支付利息。

PRE-EMPTIVE RIGHTS

優先認股權

There  are  no  provisions  for  pre-emptive  rights  under  the  Articles  of 
Association of the Company, or the laws of Hong Kong, which would 
oblige the Company to offer new shares on a pro-rata basis to existing 
shareholders.

本公司章程細則或香港法例並無有關優
先認股權之規定，致使本公司須按比例
向現有股東發售新股。

SUFFICIENCY OF PUBLIC FLOAT

足夠公眾持股量

The Company has  maintained  a  sufficient  public float throughout the 
Year.

本年度，本公司維持足夠公眾持股量。

19

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDDirectors’ Report董事會報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告CHARITABLE DONATIONS

慈善捐贈

During  the  Year,  the  Group  made  charitable  donations  in  the  sum  of 
HK$777,000.

於 本 年 度， 本 集 團 之 慈 善 捐 贈 合 共 為
777,000 港元。

EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD

呈報期後事項

Details of events after the reporting period are set on in note 40 to the 
consolidated financial statements.

呈報期後事項詳情載於綜合財務報表附
註 40。

AUDITOR

核數師

A  resolution  will  be  submitted  to  the  forthcoming  annual  general 
meeting of the Company to re-appoint Mazars CPA Limited as auditor 
of the Company.

本公司將於應屆股東週年大會上提呈一
項決議案，續聘瑪澤會計師事務所有限
公司為本公司之核數師。

On behalf of the Board
Willie International Holdings Limited

代表董事會
威利國際控股有限公司

Dr. Chuang Yueheng, Henry
Chairman

主席
莊友衡博士

30 March 2015

二零一五年三月三十日

20

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Directors’ Report董事會報告 2014 Annual Report  年度報告CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRACTICES

企業管治常規

Throughout  the  year  ended  31  December  2014  (the  “Year”),  the 
Company  complied  with  all  code  provisions  set  out  in  the  Corporate 
Governance  Code  (the  “CG  Code“)  under  Appendix  14  of  the  Rules 
Governing the Listing of Securities (the “Listing Rules”) on The Stock 
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Stock Exchange”).

The  Board  of  Directors  (the  “Board”)  of  the  Company  is  committed 
to maintaining high  standards  of  corporate  governance and integrity, 
and  to  ensuring  transparent  and  adequate  levels  of  disclosure.  No 
corporate governance committee has been established and the Board 
is responsible for performing the corporate governance duties set out 
in  the  CG  code.  The  Board  will  continue  to  review  and  recommend 
such steps as appropriate in a timely manner in order to comply with 
the requirements of the CG Code.

本 公 司 已 於 截 至 二 零 一 四 年 十 二 月
三十一日止年度（「本年度」）一直遵守香
港聯合交易所有限公司（「聯交所」）證券
上市規則（「上市規則」）附錄十四下之《企
業管治守則》（「企業管治守則」）所載之所
有守則條文。

本公司董事會（「董事會」）致力為本公司
維持高水平之企業管治及誠實公正，確
保高透明度及有充足的披露。概無成立
企業管治委員會及由董事會負責履行企
業管治守則所載之企業管治職責。董事
會將繼續適時檢討及建議合適之步驟，
以符合企業管治守則之規定。

DIRECTORS’ SECURITIES TRANSACTIONS

董事之證券交易

The  Company  has  complied  with  the  requirements  for  director’s 
securities  transactions  stated  in  the  “Model  Code  for  Securities 
Transactions  by  Directors  of  Listed  Issuers”  (the  “Model  Code”)  in 
Appendix  10  of  the  Listing  Rules.  All  Directors  of  the  Company  have 
confirmed that they have complied with the requirements as set out in 
the Model Code for the Year.

本公司一直遵守上市規則附錄十《上市發
行人董事進行證券交易之標準守則》（「標
準 守 則 」）所 述 董 事 進 行 證 券 交 易 之 規
定。本公司全體董事確認，彼等於本年
度一直遵守標準守則所載規定。

BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

董事會

Board Composition
The Board comprises seven members as at the date of this report and 
their positions are as follows:

董事會的組成
於 本 報 告 日 期， 董 事 會 由 七 名 成 員 組
成，彼等擔任之職位如下：

Executive Directors
Chuang Yueheng, Henry (Chairman)
Cheung Wing Ping
Cheung Ka Yee
Man Wai Chuen

Independent Non-executive Directors
Yau Yan Ming, Raymond
Frank H. Miu
Antonio Maria Santos

執行董事
莊友衡（主席）
張榮平
張嘉儀
文惠存

獨立非執行董事
邱恩明
繆希
杜東尼

21

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDCorporate Governance Report企業管治報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告Roles and Responsibilities
The Board is responsible for overseeing the overall business strategy, 
management planning and control of the Company. The management 
is  responsible  for  day-to-day  management  of  the  Company  and  its 
subsidiaries (collectively the “Group”). All Directors have accumulated 
sufficient and valuable experience to carry out their duties in an efficient 
and  effective  manner.  Details  of  the  backgrounds  and  qualifications 
of  the  Directors  are  set  out  in  the  section  headed  “Biographies  of 
Directors”  on  pages  12  to  14  of  this  annual  report.  None  of  the 
members of the Board have, in any respect, relation to each other in 
any circumstances.

角色及職責
董事會負責監督本公司整體業務策略、
管 理 規 劃 及 監 控。 管 理 層 負 責 本 公 司
及其附屬公司（合稱「本集團」）的日常管
理。所有董事均經驗豐富及稱職，足以
有效履行本身職責。有關董事背景及資
格之詳情，載於本年度報告第 12 至 14 頁
「董事簡歷」一節。董事會成員之間於任
何情況下概無任何關係。

All  Directors  of  the  Company  have  acted  in  good  faith  for  the  best 
interests  of  the  Company  and  the  stakeholders  of  the  Company. 
Other  than  the  statutory  duties  imposed  on  each  of  them,  all  of  the 
Directors have exercised due care in monitoring the corporate matters 
of the Company and have provided grave concern, sufficient time and 
attention to all the significant issues and affairs of the Group.

本公司全體董事均真誠行事，為本公司
及本公司利益相關者謀求最佳利益。除
須承擔之法定義務外，全體董事均嚴謹
監督本公司之事務，並付出充足的時間
及精力，密切關注本集團各項重大事項
及事務。

Chairman and Chief Executive
For  the  sake  of  transparency  and  independency  of  the  management 
of the Company, duties of the Chairman and the chief executive of the 
Company are segregated and not executed by the same individual. The 
Chairman is responsible for the management of the Board and external 
corporate  communication  whereas  the  chief  executive  is  responsible 
for the day-to-day operation, among other matters, the implementation 
of  overall  strategy  and  direction  set  by  the  Board.  Mr.  Wong  Ying 
Seung, Asiong served  as  the  chief  executive  of the Group before his 
resignation  from  the  Board  in  October  2014.  Since  then,  the  role  of 
chief executive has been shared by the 3 executive directors (i.e. Mr. 
Cheung Wing Ping, Ms. Cheung Ka Yee and Mr. Man Wai Chuen).

There  is  no  financial,  business,  family  or  other  material/relevant 
relationship between the Directors, or between the Chairman (i.e. Dr. 
Chuang  Yueheng,  Henry)  and  the  persons  serving  the  role  of  chief 
executive.

主席及最高行政人員
為提高本公司管理之透明度及獨立性，
本公司主席及最高行政人員之職責已作
區分，並非由同一人士兼任。主席負責
管理董事會及對外企業通訊，而最高行
政人員則負責日常營運，其中包括執行
由董事會制定之整體策略及指示。王迎
祥先生於二零一四年十月辭任董事會前
擔任本集團最高行政人員。自此，最高
行政人員的角色已由三名執行董事（即張
榮平先生、張嘉儀女士及文惠存先生）分
擔。

董事之間或主席（即莊友衡先生）與擔任
最高行政人員的人士之間並無財務、業
務、親屬或其他實質╱相關方面的關係。

Independence of Non-executive Directors
The independent non-executive Directors were appointed by reference 
to their respective qualification and experience to ensure that they are 
competent  to  perform  their  duties  and  to  protect  the  interests  of  the 
stakeholders. The independent non-executive Directors were appointed 
with  specific  term  from  1  to  3  years  by  the  Company  and  they  are 
subject to retirement by rotation at least once every three years. The 
Company  has  received  annual  confirmation  of  independence  from 
the  independent  non-executive  Directors  in  accordance  with  Rule 
3.13 of the Listing Rules. The Board assessed and concluded that all 
the  independent  non-executive  Directors  are  independent  under  the 
definition of the Listing Rules.

非執行董事之獨立性
獨立非執行董事均參照其各自之資格及
經驗而獲委任，以確保彼等有能力履行
職務，同時保障利益相關者利益。獨立
非執行董事均由本公司按 1 至 3 年指定年
期委任，而彼等須至少每三年輪席退任
一次。本公司已接獲該等獨立非執行董
事根據上市規則第 3.13 條發出之年度獨
立性確認書。董事會已評估彼等之獨立
性，並確定全體獨立非執行董事均符合
上市規則所界定之獨立資格。

22

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Corporate Governance Report企業管治報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告Board Diversity
The  Board  has  established  a  set  of  Board  Diversity  Policy  setting 
out  the  approach  to  achieve  diversity  on  the  Board  with  the  aims  of 
enhancing  Board  effectiveness  and  corporate  governance  as  well  as 
achieving our business objectives and sustainable development. Board 
diversity  has  been  considered  from  a  number  of  aspects,  including 
but  not  limited  to  gender,  age,  cultural  and  educational  background, 
ethnicity, professional experience, required expertise, skills, knowledge 
and length of service. The current Board consists of a diverse mix of 
Board members appropriate to the requirement of the business of the 
Company.

董事會成員多元化
董事會已制定董事會多元化政策，載列
令董事會達致多元化之方針，目的為提
升董事會效率及企業管治水平，實現業
務目標及可持續發展。董事會成員多元
化從多個層面加以考慮，包括但不限於
性別、年齡、文化及教育背景、種族、
專業經驗、所需專才、技能、知識及服
務年期。董事會目前由多元化董事會成
員組成，切合本公司的業務要求。

Attendance Records
The  Board  held  12  full  board  meetings  in  2014.  Details  of  the 
attendance of the Board members are as follows:

出席記錄
董事會於二零一四年舉行了 12 次全體董
事大會。董事會成員之出席詳情如下：

Executive Directors

Attendance

執行董事

Chuang Yueheng, Henry
Wong Ying Seung, Asiong (resigned with efffect from
  16 October 2014)
Cheung Wing Ping
Cheung Ka Yee 
Man Wai Chuen  

Independent Non-executive Directors

Wen Louis (resigned with efffect from 
  1 September 2014)
Yau Yan Ming, Raymond
Frank H. Miu
Antonio Maria Santos

12/12

9/9
12/12
12/12
12/12

8/8
12/12
12/12
12/12

莊友衡
王迎祥（於二零一四年
  十月十六日辭任）
張榮平
張嘉儀
文惠存

獨立非執行董事

溫耒（於二零一四年
  九月一日辭任）
邱恩明
繆希
杜東尼

出席率

12/12

9/9
12/12
12/12
12/12

8/8
12/12
12/12
12/12

Save for regular board meetings held in 2014, meetings of the Directors 
were held to discuss and transact other special businesses. During the 
Year, the Chairman (namely, Chuang Yueheng Henry) held one meeting 
with all the independent non-executive directors (namely, Wen Louis, 
Yau Yan Ming Raymond,  Frank  H.  Miu  and  Antonio Maria Santos) to 
hear their views without the executive directors present in accordance 
with  Code  A.2.7  of  the  CG  Code.  The  Board  members  are  provided 
with appropriate and sufficient information in a timely manner to keep 
abreast of the Group’s latest developments. All businesses transacted 
at the board meetings are properly documented and recorded.

除於二零一四年舉行之董事會常規會議
外，董事會亦舉行會議討論及處理其他
特別事項。本年度，主席（莊友衡）按照
企業管治守則第 A.2.7 條守則與全體獨立
非執行董事（即溫耒、邱恩明、繆希及杜
東尼）召開一次會議，在沒有執行董事出
席之情況下聆聽彼等之意見。董事會成
員會及時取得適當且充足之資料，使彼
等了解本集團之最新發展情況。所有於
董事會會議審議的事項均已妥善存檔及
記錄。

23

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDCorporate Governance Report企業管治報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告Training for Directors
Each newly appointed  Director  receives  a  comprehensive and formal 
induction  to  ensure  that  he/she  has  an  appropriate  understanding  of 
(i) the business and operations of the Group; (ii) his/her responsibilities 
and  obligations  under  the  Listing  Rules  and  relevant  regulatory 
requirements; (iii) the corporate governance code of the Company and 
(iv) the Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed 
Issuers.

董事培訓
每名獲委任之新董事均獲提供全面及正
式之入職介紹，以確保其可適當掌握 (i)
本集團之業務及營運；(ii) 根據上市規則
及相關法規須履行之職務及責任；(iii) 本
公司之守規手冊；及 (iv) 上市公司董事進
行證券交易之標準守則。

Directors  are  continually  updated  on  developments  in  the  statutory 
and  regulatory  regime  and  the  business  environment  to  facilitate  the 
discharge of their responsibilities. Continuing briefing and professional 
development  for  directors  will  be  arranged  at  the  expenses  of  the 
Company  whenever  necessary.  The  Directors  are  committed  to 
complying  with  code  provision  A.6.5  of  the  CG  Code  on  Directors’ 
training.  All  Directors  have  participated  in  continuous  professional 
development  to  develop  and  refresh  their  knowledge  and  skills  and 
provided their training records for the Year to the Company.

董事將不斷獲得法定及監管機制發展以
及業務環境之新消息，以協助彼等履行
職責。當有需要時，董事將獲安排持續
簡報及專業發展，費用由本公司承擔。
董事致力遵守企業管治守則內第 A.6.5 條
有關董事培訓之守則條文。於本年度，
全體董事均有參與發展及更新彼等知識
及技能之持續專業發展，並已向本公司
提供其培訓記錄。

During the Year, the Company provided training to all directors of the 
Company as summarized below:

本年度，本公司向本公司全體董事提供
之培訓概要如下：

Name of Director

Type of training

董事姓名

培圳種類

Chuang Yueheng, Henry
Wong Ying Seung, Asiong (resigned with efffect from
  16 October 2014)
Cheung Wing Ping
Cheung Ka Yee
Man Wai Chuen
Wen Louis (resigned with efffect from 
  1 September 2014)
Yau Yan Ming, Raymond
Frank H. Miu
Antonio Maria Santos

Type of training:

I

I
I
I
I

I
I
I
I

莊友衡
王迎祥（於二零一四年
  十月十六日辭任）
張榮平
張嘉儀
文惠存
溫耒（於二零一四年
  九月一日辭任）
邱恩明
繆希
杜東尼

培訓種類：

I

I
I
I
I

I
I
I
I

I. 

Attending  seminars  and  reading  written  materials  relevant  to 
directors’ duties and changes in laws and regulations applicable 
to the Company.

I.  出席講座及閱讀與董事職責及本公
司適用法律與法規之變更有關之閱
讀材料。

II.  Orientation for newly-appointed directors.

II.  為新加入董事而設的迎新培訓。

24

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Corporate Governance Report企業管治報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告BOARD COMMITTEES

董事會委員會

Audit Committee
The  audit  committee  of  the  Company  (the  “Audit  Committee”)  was 
established  in  January  2003  and  written  terms  of  reference  were 
formulated. The primary duties of the Audit Committee, among others, 
are:

審核委員會
本公司之審核委員會（「審核委員會」）於
二零零三年一月成立，有關該委員會之
書面職權範圍亦已制訂。審核委員會之
主要職務其中包括：

(i) 

(ii) 

to communicate with the management of the Company from time 
to time;

(i)  不時與本公司管理層溝通；

to review the accounting principles and practices adopted by the 
Company;

(ii)  審 閱 本 公 司 採 納 之 會 計 原 則 及 常

規；

(iii) 

to review the effectiveness of its internal control systems; and

(iii)  審閱內部監控系統之效能；及

(iv) 

to review the interim and annual results of the Group.

(iv)  審閱本集團之中期及年度業績。

The  Audit  Committee  comprises  three  independent  non-executive 
Directors as at the date of this report, namely:

於本報告日期審核委員會由三名獨立非
執行董事組成，包括：

Yau Yan Ming, Raymond (Chairman)
Frank H. Miu
Antonio Maria Santos (appointed with effect from 1 September 2014)

邱恩明（主席）
繆希
杜東尼（於二零一四年九月一日獲委任）

During the Year, the Audit Committee met two times with the external 
auditor  and/or  representatives  of  the  management  of  the  Company. 
The attendance records of each Audit Committee member in 2014 are 
set out below:

於本年度內，審核委員會與外聘核數師
及╱或本公司管理層代表舉行了兩次會
面。二零一四年各審核委員會成員之會
議出席記錄載列如下：

Committee members

Attendance

委員會成員

出席率

Yau Yan Ming, Raymond
Wen Louis (resigned with effect from 
  1 September 2014)
Frank H. Miu
Antonio Maria Santos

(appointed with effect from 1 September 2014)

2/2

2/2
2/2

0/0

邱恩明
溫耒（於二零一四年
  九月一日辭任）
繆希
杜東尼（於二零一四年
  九月一日獲委任）

2/2

2/2
2/2

0/0

Having discussed with the external auditor about the Group’s financial 
performance and the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls, the 
Audit Committee reviewed the Company’s unaudited interim results of 
the six months ended 30 June 2014 and audited annual results for the 
financial  year  ended  31  December  2014  with  the  conclusion  that  the 
preparations  of  such  results  have  been  complied  with  the  applicable 
accounting standards.

經與外聘核數師討論本集團之財務表現
及 本 集 團 內 部 監 控 之 有 效 性， 審 核 委
員會已審閱本公司截至二零一四年六月
三十日止六個月之未經審核中期業績及
截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止財政
年度之經審核年度業績，並認為該等業
績之編製符合適用之會計準則。

25

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDCorporate Governance Report企業管治報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
Remuneration Committee
The  remuneration  committee  of  the  Company  (the  “Remuneration 
Committee”)  was  formed  in  June  2005.  The  Company  formulated 
written  terms  of  reference  for  the  Remuneration  Committee  and  the 
adopted terms of reference are in compliance with the code provision 
in the CG Code.

薪酬委員會
本公司之薪酬委員會（「薪酬委員會」）於
二零零五年六月組成。本公司已就薪酬
委員會制訂書面職權範圍，且所採納之
職權範圍符合企業管治守則條文之規定。

The primary duties of the Remuneration Committee, among others, are 

薪酬委員會之主要職務其中包括

(i) 

(ii) 

to  make  recommendations  to  the  Board  on  the  Company’s 
policy and structure for all remuneration of Directors and senior 
management; and

(i)  就本公司對董事及高級管理層之所
有薪酬政策及架構向董事會提供建
議；及

to  make  recommendations  to  the  Board  on  the  remuneration 
p a c k a g e s   o f   i n d i v i d u a l   e x e c u t i v e   d i r e c t o r s   a n d   s e n i o r 
management.

(ii)  就個別執行董事及高級管理層之薪

酬待遇向董事會提供建議。

As at the date of this report, the Remuneration Committee comprises 
three independent non-executive Directors and one executive Director, 
namely:

於本報告日期，薪酬委員會由三名獨立
非執行董事及一名執行董事組成，包括：

Frank H. Miu (Chairman)
Yau Yan Ming, Raymond
Antonio Maria Santos
Man Wai Chuen

(appointed with effect from 16 October 2014)

繆希（主席）
邱恩明
杜東尼
文惠存
  （於二零一四年十月十六日獲委任）

The Remuneration Committee held one meeting in 2014. Details of the 
attendance of the Remuneration Committee meeting are set out below:

薪酬委員會於二零一四年舉行了一次會
議。薪酬委員會會議出席詳情如下：

Committee members

Attendance

委員會成員

出席率

Frank H. Miu
Yau Yan Ming, Raymond
Wong Ying Seung, Asiong (resigned with effect from
  16 October 2014)
Antonio Maria Santos 
Man Wai Chuen (appointed with effect from
  16 October 2014)

1/1
1/1

1/1
1/1

0/0

繆希
邱恩明
王迎祥（於二零一四年
  十月十六日辭任）
杜東尼
文惠存（於二零一四年
  十月十六日獲委任）

1/1
1/1

1/1
1/1

0/0

26

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Corporate Governance Report企業管治報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
Nomination Committee
The  nomination  committee  of  the  Company  (the  “Nomination 
Committee”) was formed on 29 March 2012. The Company formulated 
written  terms  of  reference  for  the  Nomination  Committee  and  the 
adopted terms of reference are in compliance with the code provision 
in the CG Code.

提名委員會
本公司之提名委員會（「提名委員會」）於
二零一二年三月二十九日組成。本公司
已就提名委員會制訂書面職權範圍，且
所採納之職權範圍符合企業管治守則條
文之規定。

The primary duties of the Nomination Committee, among others, are:

提名委員會之主要職務其中包括：

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

to review the structure, size and composition (including the skills, 
knowledge  and  experience)  of  the  Board  at  least  annually  and 
make recommendations on any proposed changes to the Board 
to complement the Company’s corporate strategy;

(i)  至少每年檢討董事會之架構、人數
及組成（包括技能、知識及經驗方
面），並就任何為配合本公司之企業
策略而擬對董事會作出之變動提出
建議；

to  identify  individuals  suitably  qualified  to  become  Board 
members and select or make recommendations to the Board on 
the selection of individuals nominated for directorships;

(ii)  物色具備合適資格可擔任董事之人
士，並在獲提名出任董事之人士當
中作出挑選或向董事會提供意見；

to  assess  the  independence  of  independent  non-executive 
directors; and

(iii)  評核獨立非執行董事之獨立性；及

to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment or re-
appointment of directors and succession planning for directors in 
particular the chairman and the chief executive.

(iv)  就董事委任或續任以及董事（尤其是
主席及最高行政人員）繼任計劃向董
事會提出建議。

As  at  the  date  of  this  report,  the  Nomination  Committee  comprises 
three independent non-executive Directors and two executive Directors, 
namely:

於本報告日期，提名委員會由三名獨立
非執行董事及兩名執行董事組成，包括：

Chuang Yueheng, Henry (Chairman)
Frank H. Miu
Yau Yan Ming, Raymond
Cheung Ka Yee (appointed with effect from 16 October 2014)
Antonio Maria Santos (appointed with effect from 1 September 2014)

莊友衡（主席）
繆希
邱恩明
張嘉儀（於二零一四年十月十六日獲委任）
杜東尼（於二零一四年九月一日獲委任）

27

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDCorporate Governance Report企業管治報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告The Nomination Committee held three meetings in 2014. Details of the 
attendance of the Nomination Committee meetings are set out below:

提名委員會於二零一四年舉行了三次會
議。提名委員會會議出席詳情如下：

Committee members

Attendance

委員會成員

出席率

Chuang Yueheng, Henry (Chairman)
Wong Ying Seung, Asiong (resigned with effect from
  16 October 2014)
Frank H. Miu
Wen Louis (resigned with effect from 
  1 September 2014)
Yau Yan Ming, Raymond
Cheung Ka Yee

(appointed with effect from 16 October 2014)

Antonio Maria Santos

(appointed with effect from 1 September 2014)

ACCOUNTABILITY

3/3

3/3
3/3

2/2
3/3

0/0

1/1

莊友衡（主席）
王迎祥（於二零一四年
  十月十六日辭任）
繆希
溫耒（於二零一四年
  九月一日辭任）
邱恩明
張嘉儀（於二零一四年
  十月十六日獲委任）
杜東尼（於二零一四年
  九月一日獲委任）

問責

3/3

3/3
3/3

2/2
3/3

0/0

1/1

Directors’ and Auditor’s Responsibilities for Financial Statements
The Directors acknowledge their responsibilities for the preparation of 
the Group’s financial statements and believe that these statements give 
a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs and of its results. 
The responsibilities of the Directors and Auditor are set out on pages 
32  to  33  of  this  annual  report.  The  Board  has  adopted  appropriate 
accounting policies and made proper estimates for the preparation of 
financial  statements.  The  Directors  confirm  that,  to  the  best  of  their 
knowledge,  information  and  belief  and  having  made  all  reasonable 
enquiries,  they  are  not  aware  of  any  material  uncertainties  relating 
to  events  or  conditions  that  may  cause  significant  doubt  upon  the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Board therefore 
continues  to  adopt  the  going  concern  approach  in  preparing  the 
financial statements for the financial year of 2014.

董事及核數師對財務報表之責任
董 事 確 認 須 負 責 編 製 本 集 團 之 財 務 報
表，及確信該等報表能真實公平地反映
本集團之財務狀況及業績。董事及核數
師 之 責 任 載 於 年 報 第 32 至 33 頁。 董 事
會已採用合適之會計政策並為編製財務
報表作出合適之估計。董事確認，據彼
等作出一切合理查詢後所知、所悉及所
信，並無任何可嚴重影響本公司持續經
營能力之若干事件或情況相關的重大不
確定因素。因此，董事會仍然採用持續
經營基準編製二零一四年財政年度之財
務報表。

Auditor’s Remuneration
The  Audit  Committee  is  responsible  for  considering  the  appointment 
of the external auditor and reviewing any non-audit services performed 
by  the  external  auditor.  During  the  Year,  the  remuneration  paid  and 
payable  to  the  Company’s  auditor  for  the  provision  of  services  as 
follows:

核數師酬金
審核委員會負責審議外聘核數師之任命
及檢討外聘核數師提供之任何非核數服
務。於本年度內，已向本公司核數師合
共支付及應付的服務酬金如下：

Audit services
Non-audit services (including tax services and review
  of interim report and financial information)

核數服務
非核數服務（包括稅務服務及
  審閱中期報告及財務資料）

HK$1,300,000 港元

HK$424,170 港元

HK$1,724,170 港元

28

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Corporate Governance Report企業管治報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Internal Controls
It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that the Group maintains 
a  sound  and  effective  system  of  internal  controls.  The  Company 
has  formulated  and  adopted  a  Compliance  Manual  and  Accounting 
Procedures  to  enhance  better  internal  control  and  such  Compliance 
Manual  and  Accounting  Procedures  would  be  reviewed  by  the 
Company  from  time  to  time.  The  Company  has  also  implemented 
practical and effective control systems with reporting lines, reporting, 
responsibilities  and  proper  procedures.  The  Board,  through  the 
Audit  Committee,  assesses  the  effectiveness  of  the  Group’s  internal 
control  system  which  covers  all  material  controls,  including  financial, 
operational and compliance control.

內部監控
董事會負責確保本集團之內部監控系統
可靠有效。本公司設立並採納守規手冊
及會計程序以提升內部監控，並將不時
檢討該等守規手冊及會計程序。本公司
亦就匯報方法、匯報、責任及合規程序
實施可行有效之監控系統。董事會透過
審核委員會評估本集團內部監控系統之
效 能， 評 估 範 圍 涵 蓋 所 有 重 要 監 控 方
面，包括財務、營運及守規監控。

Related Party Transactions
During  the  Year,  the  Group  entered  into  certain  transactions  with 
“related parties” as defined under the applicable accounting standards 
and disclosed in note 34 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of 
this  Annual  Report.  Those  related  party  transactions  are  not  subject 
to  the  disclosure  requirements  relating  to  connected/continuing 
connected transactions under the Listing Rules.

關連人士交易
於本年度，本集團與「關連人士」（定義見
適用會計準則及本年報的綜合財務報表
附註 34 的披露）訂立若干交易。該等關連
人士交易均不受上市規則有關關連╱持
續關連交易的披露規定所規限。

INVESTOR RELATIONS

投資者關係

Communications With Shareholders
The Company has established different communication channels with 
shareholders  and  investors,  including  (i)  printed  copies  of  corporate 
communications  (including  but  not  limited  to  annual  reports,  interim 
reports, notices of meetings, circulars and proxy forms) required under 
the Listing Rules, and shareholders can choose (or are deemed to have 
consented) to receive such documents using electronic means through 
the Company’s website; (ii) the annual general meeting provides a forum 
for shareholders to raise comments and exchange views with the Board; 
(iii) updated and key information on the Group is available on the website 
of the Company; (iv) the Company’s website (http://www.willie273.com) 
offers  a  communication  channel  between  the  Company  and  its 
shareholders  and  stakeholders;  (v)  the  Company’s  Share  Registrar 
deals with shareholders for share registration and related matters; and 
(vi)  the  Company  Secretary  of  the  Company  handles  enquiries  from 
shareholders and investors generally.

與股東之溝通
本公司已與股東及投資者建立不同溝通
渠道，包括 (i) 上市規則規定之企業通訊
印 刷 本（包 括 但 不 限 於 年 度 報 告、 中 期
報 告、 大 會 通 告、 通 函 及 代 表 委 任 表
格），股東亦可透過本公司網站選擇（或
被視為已同意）使用電子方式收取有關
文件；(ii) 股東週年大會為股東提供發表
意見及與董事會交流意見之平台；(iii) 可
於本公司網站獲取有關本集團的最新及
重 要 資 訊；(iv) 本 公 司 網 站 (http://www.
wiilie273.com) 為本公司及其股東及持份
者提供溝通渠道；(v) 本公司之股份過戶
登記處處理有關股東之股份登記及相關
事宜；及 (vi) 本公司之公司秘書處理一般
來自股東及投資者之查詢。

In compliance with  the  Corporate  Governance Code under Appendix 
14 of the Listing Rules, the Company has established a shareholders 
communication  policy  in  April  2012  which  is  subject  to  review  on  a 
regular basis to ensure its effectiveness. This policy is available on the 
Company’s website (http://www.willie273.com).

為遵守上市規則附錄十四項下之企業管
治 守 則， 本 公 司 已 於 二 零 一 二 年 四 月
制定股東通訊政策，並將定期檢討以確
保 其 成 效。 此 政 策 文 本 在 本 公 司 網 站
(http://www.willie273.com) 可供查閱。

During the year 2014, the Company held 3 general meetings apart from 
the  annual  general  meeting.  Individual  resolution  has  been  proposed 
by  the  Chairman  in  the  general  meetings  for  each  substantial  issue. 
At these general meetings, the Chairman of the Company and/or the 
members of the Board (including Independent Non-executive Directors) 
were  available  to  answer  questions  raised  by  shareholders.  The 
attendance of each Director at the general meetings of the Company 
for the Year is set out below:

於二零一四年度，除股東週年大會外，
本公司舉行了三次股東大會。主席已就
各項重大事宜在股東大會上提呈個別決
議案。於三次股東大會上，本公司主席
及╱或董事會成員（包括獨立非執行董
事）均有出席股東大會並回答股東提問。
各董事於本年度出席本公司股東大會的
情況載列如下：

29

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDCorporate Governance Report企業管治報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告Executive Directors

Attendance

執行董事

出席率

Chuang Yueheng, Henry
Wong Ying Seung, Asiong (resigned with efffect from
  16 October 2014)
Cheung Wing Ping
Cheung Ka Yee
Man Wai Chuen

Independent Non-executive Directors

Wen Louis (resigned with efffect from 
  1 September 2014)
Yau Yan Ming, Raymond
Frank H. Miu
Antonio Maria Santos

4/4

3/3
4/4
4/4
4/4

2/2
4/4
2/4
4/4

莊友衡
王迎祥（於二零一四年
  十月十六日辭任）
張榮平
張嘉儀
文惠存

獨立非執行董事

溫耒（於二零一四年
  九月一日辭任）
邱恩明
繆希
杜東尼

4/4

3/3
4/4
4/4
4/4

2/2
4/4
2/4
4/4

The Board considers that one out of the then four Independent Non-
executive  Directors  of  the  Company  being  unable  to  attend  the 
extraordinary  general  meeting  of  the  Company  held  on  12  March 
2014 and the annual general meeting of the Company held on 30 May 
2014  due  to  his  sickness  would  not  constitute  a  deviation  from  the 
code provision A.6.7 in the Corporate Governance Code as there was 
already  a  majority  of  Independent  Non-executive  Directors  present 
at  the  meeting  to  ensure  a  balanced  understanding  of  the  views  of 
shareholders.

董事會認為，當時本公司四名獨立非執
行董事中有一名因病未能出席本公司於
二零一四年三月十二日舉行之股東特別
大會及於二零一四年五月三十日舉行之
股東週年大會，不會構成對企業管治守
則守則條文第 A.6.7 條之偏離，原因是已
有大多數獨立非執行董事出席會議，可
確保對股東意見有公正之了解。

All  resolutions  put  forward  at  the  general  meetings  of  the  Company 
were  voted  by  way  of  poll  and  the  announcement  on  the  poll  vote 
results was made by the Company after the annual general meeting in 
the manner prescribed under Rule 13.39(5) of the Listing Rules.

提呈本公司股東大會的所有決議案均以
投票方式表決，本公司亦已根據上市規
則第 13.39(5) 條規定所述方式於股東週年
大會結束後公布以投票方式表決的結果。

Shareholders’ Rights - Enquiries
Shareholders may put enquiries to the Board or put forward proposals 
relating to the operations, strategy and/or management of the Group 
to  be  discussed  at  shareholders’  meetings.  Shareholders’  enquiries 
or proposals can be directed in writing to the Board or the Company 
Secretary at 32/F, China United Centre, 28 Marble Road, North Point, 
Hong Kong or by email to info@willie273.com.

股東權利－查詢
股東可就將於股東大會上討論之本集團
之業務、政策及╱或管理向董事會作出
查詢或提呈議案。股東之查詢或議案可
書面寄送至董事會或公司秘書（地址為香
港北角馬寶道 28 號華匯中心 32 樓）或電
郵至 info@willie273.com。

30

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Corporate Governance Report企業管治報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告Shareholders’ Rights - Meetings
Pursuant  to  Article  73  of  the  Articles  of  Association  of  the  Company 
and Section 566 of the Companies Ordinance (Chapter 622 of the laws 
of  Hong  Kong),  shareholder(s)  of  the  Company  holding  not  less  than 
5% of the total voting rights of the Company may request the Board 
of Directors of the Company to convene a general meeting by way of 
depositing  a  written  request  at  the  registered  office  of  the  Company 
(32/F, China United Centre, 28 Marble Road, North Point, Hong Kong) 
or by email to info@willie273.com. The objects of the meeting must be 
stated  in  the  related  requisition  which  must  be  authenticated  by  the 
requisitionist(s).

股東權利－會議
根據本公司章程細則第 73 條及香港法例
第 622 章 公 司 條 例 第 566 條， 本 公 司 持
有不少於本公司投票權總數 5% 之股東
可通過向本公司之註冊辦事處（香港北
角馬寶道 28 號華匯中心 32 樓）或電郵至
info@willie273.com 遞交書面要求之方式
向本公司董事會要求召開股東大會。會
議主旨須於經有關遞呈要求人士認證之
相關要求內註明。

Under  Section  615  of  the  Companies  Ordinance,  shareholder(s) 
holding  not  less  than  2.5%  of  the  total  voting  rights  or  not  less  than 
50  shareholders  may  propose  any  resolution  at  the  annual  general 
meeting  by  way  of  depositing  a  written  notice  authenticated  by  the 
requisitionist(s)  at  the  registered  office  of  the  Company  (32/F,  China 
United Centre, 28 Marble Road, North Point, Hong Kong) or by email 
to info@willie273.com not less than six weeks before the meeting. The 
notice shall contain a description of the proposed resolution desired to 
be put forward at the meeting, the reasons for such proposal and any 
material interest of the proposing shareholder(s) in such proposal.

根據公司條例第 615 條，持有投票權總
數不少於 2.5% 之股東，或不少 於 50 名
股東可於大會前不少於六星期通過向本
公司之註冊辦事處（香港北角馬寶道 28 號
華匯中心 32 樓）或電郵至 info@willie273.
com 遞交由遞呈要求人士認證之書面通
告之方式於股東週年大會上提呈任何決
議案。通告應載有擬於大會上提呈之建
議決議案之詳情、有關建議之理由及建
議股東於有關建議內之任何重大權益。

Constitutional Documents
In  May  2014,  the  shareholders  of  the  Company  approved  the 
amendment of the Company’s articles of association so as to be in line 
with provisions under the new Companies Ordinance.

組織章程文件
於二零一四年五月，本公司股東批准對
本公司組織章程細則進行修訂，以與新
公司條例下的條文保持一致。

By order of the Board
Willie International Holdings Limited

Dr. Chuang Yueheng, Henry
Chairman

30 March 2015

承董事會命
威利國際控股有限公司

主席
莊友衡博士

二零一五年三月三十日

31

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDCorporate Governance Report企業管治報告2014 Annual Report  年度報告To the shareholders of
Willie International Holdings Limited
(incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability)

We  have  audited  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of  Willie 
International  Holdings  Limited  (the  “Company”)  and  its  subsidiaries 
(together  the  “Group”)  set  out  on  pages  34  to  134,  which  comprise 
the consolidated and  the  Company’s  statements of financial position 
as  at  31  December  2014,  consolidated  statement  of  comprehensive 
income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated 
statement  of  cash  flows  for  the  year  then  ended,  and  a  summary  of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.

致威利國際控股有限公司股東

（於香港註冊成立之有限公司）

吾等已審核載於第 34 至 134 頁之威利國
際控股有限公司（「貴公司」）及其附屬公
司（統稱為「貴集團」）之綜合財務報表，
當中包括於二零一四年十二月三十一日
之綜合財務狀況報表及  貴公司之財務
狀況報表、截至該日止年度之綜合全面
收益表、綜合權益變動表及綜合現金流
轉表，以及主要會計政策概要及其他解
釋資料。

DIRECTORS’  RESPONSIBILITY  FOR  THE  CONSOLIDATED 

董事就綜合財務報表須承擔之責任

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The  directors  of  the  Company  are  responsible  for  the  preparation 
of  consolidated  financial  statements  that  give  a  true  and  fair  view  in 
accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards issued by 
the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the Hong 
Kong Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622), and for such internal control 
as  the  directors  determine  is  necessary  to  enable  the  preparation 
of  consolidated  financial  statements  that  are  free  from  material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

貴公司董事須負責根據香港會計師公會
頒佈之香港財務報告準則及香港公司條
例（第 622 章）編製真實公平的綜合財務
報表，並須負責董事認為必要的內部監
控，以使綜合財務報表的呈報不存在由
於欺詐或錯誤而導致之重大錯誤陳述。

AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY

核數師之責任

Our  responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these  consolidated 
financial  statements  based  on  our  audit  and  to  report  our  opinion 
solely  to  you,  as  a  body,  in  accordance  with  section  80  of  Schedule 
11  to  the  Hong  Kong  Companies  Ordinance  (Cap.  622),  which 
requires compliance with section 141 of the predecessor Hong Kong 
Companies Ordinance (Cap. 32), and for no other purpose. We do not 
assume  responsibility  towards  or  accept  liability  to  any  other  person 
for the contents of this report. We conducted our audit in accordance 
with  Hong  Kong  Standards  on  Auditing  issued  by  the  Hong  Kong 
Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Those standards require that 
we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial 
statements are free from material misstatement.

吾等之責任乃根據吾等之審核，對該等
綜合財務報表發表意見。吾等之報告乃
遵照香港公司條例（第 622 章）附表 11 第
80 條（要求遵守前身香港公司條例（第 32
章）第 141 條）僅向  閣下（整體）作出，
而並無其他目的。吾等不會就本報告內
容向任何其他人士負上或承擔責任。吾
等按照由香港會計師公會頒佈之香港核
數準則進行審核。該等準則要求吾等遵
守道德規範，並規劃及執行審核，以合
理查證綜合財務報表是否不存在重大錯
誤陳述。

32

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Independent Auditor’s Report獨立核數師報告 2014 Annual Report  年度報告An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about 
the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. 
The  procedures  selected  depend  on  the  auditor’s  judgement, 
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the 
consolidated  financial  statements,  whether  due  to  fraud  or  error.  In 
making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control 
relevant  to  the  entity’s  preparation  of  the  consolidated  financial 
statements  that  give  a  true  and  fair  view  in  order  to  design  audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the 
purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s 
internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness 
of  accounting  policies  used  and  the  reasonableness  of  accounting 
estimates  made  by  the  directors,  as  well  as  evaluating  the  overall 
presentation of the consolidated financial statements.

審核涉及執行程序以獲取有關綜合財務
報表所載數額及披露資料之審核憑證。
所選定之程序取決於核數師之判斷，包
括評估綜合財務報表是否因欺詐或錯誤
而存在重大錯誤陳述之風險。在作出該
等風險評估時，核數師考慮與公司編製
真實公平的綜合財務報表相關之內部監
控， 以 設 計 適 當 於 有 關 情 況 之 審 核 程
序，但並非對公司內部監控效能發表意
見。審核亦包括評價所採用之會計政策
是否合適，及董事作出之會計估計是否
合理，以及評價綜合財務報表之整體呈
列方式。

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.

吾等相信吾等獲取之審核憑證充足及適
當為吾等之審核意見提供基礎。

OPINION

意見

In  our  opinion,  the  consolidated  financial  statements  give  a  true  and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 
31  December  2014,  and  of  the  Group’s  profit  and  cash  flows  for  the 
year  then  ended  in  accordance  with  Hong  Kong  Financial  Reporting 
Standards  and  have  been  properly  prepared  in  accordance  with  the 
Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622).

吾等認為，綜合財務報表已遵照香港財
務 報 告 準 則 真 實 公 平 地 反 映  貴 公 司
及  貴集團於二零一四年十二月三十一
日之財務狀況及  貴集團截至該日止年
度之溢利及現金流轉，並已按照香港公
司條例（第 622 章）妥為編製。

Mazars CPA Limited
Certified Public Accountants
Hong Kong, 30 March 2015

Chan Wai Man
Practising Certificate Number: P02487

瑪澤會計師事務所有限公司
執業會計師
香港，二零一五年三月三十日

陳偉文
執業證書編號：P02487

33

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDIndependent Auditor’s Report獨立核數師報告 2014 Annual Report  年度報告Note
附註

5
6

15

22

14

17

17

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

567,888
1,006
(10,178)
(283)

990

550

213,473

(21,247)

45,346
1,555
(10,919)
(1,115)

7,488

300

—

—

—

19 (b)

1,577

—

(3,750)

149,778

72,798

(1,925)
(25,454)
(742)
(121,231)
(10,056)

(4,453)
(24,159)
(212)
(443)
—

744,146

82,436

(16)

(43)

744,130

82,393

8
17
18

8

10

11

Turnover
Other income
Employee benefits expenses
Depreciation
Reversal of allowance for
  doubtful debts, net
Gain arising from changes in fair value
  of investment properties
Gain arising from acquisition of

interest in associates

Loss on changes in shareholding

in associates

Gain on derecognition of available-

for-sale financial assets
Loss on disposal of available-
for-sale financial assets

Net fair value gain on investments
  held for trading
Net fair value loss on investments
  designated as at fair value upon

initial recognition

Other operating expenses
Finance costs
Share of results of associates
Share of results of a joint venture

營業額
其他收入
僱員福利支出
折舊
呆賬撥備
  撥回淨額
投資物業公平值變動
  所產生之收益
收購聯營公司權益
  所產生之收益
聯營公司股權變動
  之虧損
終止確認可供出售財務
  資產之收益
出售可供出售財務
  資產之虧損
持作買賣投資之公平值
  收益淨額
於首次確認時指定為按公平值
  列賬之投資之公平值
  虧損淨額
其他經營支出
融資成本
應佔聯營公司之業績
應佔一家合營公司之業績

Profit before taxation

Taxation

Profit for the year

除稅前溢利

稅項

年內溢利

34

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income綜合全面收益表Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other comprehensive income (loss): 其他全面收入（虧損）：
Items that have been reclassified
  or may be reclassified subsequently
  to profit or loss
Net fair value gain on available-

已重新分類或
  其後可能重新分類
  至損益之項目
可供出售財務資產
  公平值之收益淨額
應佔聯營公司之其他
  全面虧損
應佔一家合營公司之
  其他全面虧損

for-sale financial assets

Share of other comprehensive loss
  of associates
Share of other comprehensive loss
  of a joint venture

Other comprehensive income

for the year

年內其他全面
  收入

Total comprehensive income
for the year attributable to

  equity holders of the Company

本公司權益持有人
  應佔年內全面收入
  總額

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

Note
附註

19 (a)

14,453

4,844

17

18

(2,941)

(2,585)

(1,354)

—

10,158

2,259

754,288

84,652

(Adjusted)
（經調整）

Earnings per share
– Basic and diluted

每股盈利
－基本及攤薄

HK 5.27 cents HK 0.59 cents
0.59 港仙

5.27 港仙

13

35

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDConsolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income綜合全面收益表Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-current assets
Investment properties
Property, plant and equipment
Interest in associates
Interest in a joint venture
Available-for-sale financial assets
Other investments
Deposit paid for acquisition of

investment properties

非流動資產
投資物業
物業、廠房及設備
於聯營公司之權益
於一家合營公司之權益
可供出售財務資產
其他投資
就收購投資物業
  已付按金

Current assets
Available-for-sale financial assets
Financial assets at fair value

through profit or loss

Loans receivable
Other receivables
Bank balances and cash

流動資產
可供出售財務資產
按公平值計入損益
  之財務資產
應收貸款
其他應收款項
銀行結餘及現金

Non-current assets classified
  as held for sale

分類為持作出售之
  非流動資產

Current liabilities
Other payables
Interest-bearing borrowing

流動負債
其他應付款項
計息借款

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

Note
附註

14
15
17
18
19
20

19

21
22
23
24

32

25
26

11,650
657
995,771
559,945
21,169
4,580

11,100
419
35,785
—
590,947
4,580

2,400

—

1,596,172

642,831

28,126

13,673

470,599
320,373
2,594
176,321

988,198
120,219
2,945
50,470

998,013

1,175,505

4,996

—

1,003,009

1,175,505

9,337
4,183

13,520

2,617
4,362

6,979

Net current assets

淨流動資產

989,489

1,168,526

Total assets less current liabilities

總資產減流動負債

2,585,661

1,811,357

36

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Consolidated Statement of Financial Position綜合財務狀況報表At 31 December 2014 於二零一四年十二月三十一日 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-current liabilities
Unsecured bonds
Deferred tax liabilities

NET ASSETS

Capital and reserves
Share capital
Reserves

TOTAL EQUITY

非流動負債
無抵押債券
遞延稅項負債

淨資產

資本及儲備
股本
儲備

總權益

Note
附註

27
28

29

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

20,000
59

20,059

—
43

43

2,565,602

1,811,314

2,400,372
165,230

1,505
1,809,809

2,565,602

1,811,314

Approved  and  authorised  for  issue  by  the  Board  of  Directors  on  30 
March 2015

由董事會於二零一五年三月三十日批准
及授權刊發

Man Wai Chuen
文惠存
Director
董事

Cheung Wing Ping
張榮平
Director
董事

37

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDConsolidated Statement of Financial Position綜合財務狀況報表At 31 December 2014 於二零一四年十二月三十一日 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-current assets
Interest in subsidiaries
Available-for-sale financial assets

非流動資產
於附屬公司之權益
可供出售財務資產

Current assets
Available-for-sale financial assets
Financial assets at fair value through
  profit or loss
Other receivables
Bank balances and cash

流動資產
可供出售財務資產
按公平值計入損益之
  財務資產
其他應收款項
銀行結餘及現金

Current liabilities
Other payables

流動負債
其他應付款項

Note
附註

16
19

19

21
23
24

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

3,532,327
11,400

1,164,693
581,178

3,543,727

1,745,871

28,126

13,673

56,253
185
819

85,383

25

1,131,923

1,131,923

27,345
307
22,982

64,307

971

971

Net current (liabilities) assets

淨流動（負債）資產

(1,046,540)

63,336

Total assets less current liabilities

總資產減流動負債

2,497,187

1,809,207

Non-current liabilities
Unsecured bonds

NET ASSETS

Capital and reserves
Share capital
Reserves

TOTAL EQUITY

非流動負債
無抵押債券

淨資產

資本及儲備
股本
儲備

總權益

27

20,000

—

2,477,187

1,809,207

29
30

2,400,372
76,815

1,505
1,807,702

2,477,187

1,809,207

Approved  and  authorised  for  issue  by  the  Board  of  Directors  on  30 
March 2015

由董事會於二零一五年三月三十日批准
及授權刊載

Man Wai Chuen
文惠存
Director
董事

Cheung Wing Ping
張榮平
Director
董事

38

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Statement of Financial Position財務狀況報表At 31 December 2014 於二零一四年十二月三十一日 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
於二零一三年一月一日

1,254

2,372,489

10,075

At 1 January 2013

Profit for the year

本年度內溢利

Other comprehensive income (loss)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently
 to profit or loss
Net fair value gain on available-for-sale
financial assets
Share of other comprehensive loss
  of associates

其他全面收入（虧損）
其後可能重新分類
 至損益之項目
可供出售財務資產公平值
  之收益淨額
應佔聯營公司之
  其他全面虧損

Other comprehensive income
(loss) for the year

Total comprehensive income
(loss) for the year

Transactions with equity holders
Transfer upon full settlement of all
  outstanding debts at the effective date
  of the capital reduction

本年度內其他全面
  收入（虧損）

本年度內全面收入
  （虧損）總額

與權益持有人交易
於股本削減生效當日
  結欠的債務全數
  清付後作出轉撥

Contributions and distributions
Placing of shares, net of expenses
Recognition of equity-settled share
  based payments
Issue of shares under share option
  scheme, net of expenses

供款及分派
配售股份，已扣除開支
確認以股權結算
  之股份付款
根據購股權計劃發行股份，
  已扣除開支

Total transactions with equity holders

與權益持有人交易總額

At 31 December 2013

於二零一三年十二月三十一日

1,505

2,398,867

10,075

Reserves
儲備

Share
capital

Share
premium

Capital
reserve

Special
capital
reserve

Share option
reserve

股本
HK$’000
千港元

股份溢價
HK$’000
千港元
(Note 30(a))
(附註30(a))

資本儲備
HK$’000
千港元
(Note a)
(附註a)

特定資本儲備
HK$’000
千港元

購股權儲備
HK$’000
千港元

—

—

—

—

—

—

167

—

84

251

—

—

—

—

—

—

16,561

—

9,817

26,378

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

3,102

—

—

—

—

—

(1,921)

(1,174)

—

(7)

(1,181)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

616

(616)

—

—

Available-for-
sale financial
assets
revaluation
reserve
可供出售
財務資產
重估儲備
HK$’000
千港元
(Note 30(b))
(附註30(b))

Foreign
currency
translation
reserve

外幣滙兌儲備
HK$’000
千港元
(Note b)
(附註b)

—

—

4,844

—

—

—

—

(2,585)

4,844

(2,585)

Accumulated
losses

Total
reserves

累計虧損
HK$’000
千港元

儲備總額
HK$’000
千港元

Total

總計
HK$’000
千港元

(685,706)

1,699,960

1,701,214

82,393

82,393

82,393

—

—

—

4,844

4,844

(2,585)

(2,585)

2,259

2,259

4,844

(2,585)

82,393

84,652

84,652

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

1,921

—

—

—

—

—

—

15,387

15,554

616

9,194

25,197

616

9,278

25,448

4,844

(2,585)

(601,392)

1,809,809

1,811,314

39

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDConsolidated Statement of Changes in Equity綜合權益變動表Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reserves
儲備

Foreign
currency
translation
reserve

Available-for-
sale financial
assets
revaluation
reserve
可供出售
財務資產
重估儲備 外幣滙兌儲備
HK$’000
HK$’000
千港元
千港元
(Note b)
(Note 30(b))
(附註b)
(附註30(b))

Share
capital

Share
premium

Capital
reserve

股本
HK$’000
千港元

Note
附註

股份溢價
HK$’000
千港元
(Note 30(a))
(附註30(a))

資本儲備
HK$’000
千港元
(Note a)
(附註a)

Accumulated
(losses)/
profits

累計
（虧損）╱溢利
HK$’000
千港元

Total
reserves

儲備總額
HK$’000
千港元

Total

總計
HK$’000
千港元

At 1 January 2014

於二零一四年一月一日

1,505

2,398,867

10,075

Profit for the year

本年度內溢利

—

—

—

4,844

—

(2,585)

(601,392)

1,809,809

1,811,314

—

744,130

744,130

744,130

Other comprehensive income (loss) 其他全面收入（虧損）
Items that have been reclassified
  or may be reclassified
  subsequently to profit or loss
Net fair value gain on available-for
  -sale financial assets
Share of other comprehensive
income (loss) of associates
Share of other comprehensive loss
  of a joint venture

已或其後可能
 重新分類至
 損益之項目
可供出售財務資產公平值
  之收益淨額
應佔聯營公司其他
  全面收入（虧損）
應佔一家合營公司
  其他全面虧損

19 (a)

17

18

Other comprehensive income

(loss) for the year

本年度內其他
  全面收入（虧損）

Total comprehensive income

(loss) for the year

本年度內全面
  收入（虧損）總額

Transfer to share capital upon
  abolition of nominal value of
  shares under the new Hong Kong
  Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622)

根據新香港公司條例
  （第622章）廢除
  股份面值後撥至
  股本

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

14,453

—

3,031

(5,972)

(634)

(720)

16,850

(6,692)

—

—

—

—

14,453

14,453

(2,941)

(2,941)

(1,354)

(1,354)

10,158

10,158

16,850

(6,692)

744,130

754,288

754,288

—

—

—

(2,398,867)

—

30 (a)

2,398,867

(2,398,867)

At 31 December 2014

於二零一四年十二月三十一日

2,400,372

—

10,075

21,694

(9,277)

142,738

165,230

2,565,602

Notes:

附註︰

(a) 

(b) 

The capital reserve was arisen from acquisition of interest in subsidiaries 
in prior years.

(a)  資本儲備乃由過往年度收購附屬公司權

益而產生。

The foreign currency translation reserve comprises exchange differences 
relating  to  the  translation  of  the  financial  statements  of  the  Group’s 
foreign operations from its functional currency to the Group’s presentation 
currency  which  are  recognised  directly  in  other  comprehensive  income 
and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve.

(b)  外幣滙兌儲備包括與將本集團境外業務
公司之財務報表從其功能貨幣換算為本
集團呈列貨幣有關之滙兌差額（直接在
其他全面收入中確認以及在外幣滙兌儲
備中累計）。

40

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity綜合權益變動表Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before taxation
Depreciation
Reversal of allowance for doubtful
  debts, net
Gain arising from changes in fair value
  of investment properties
Gain arising from acquisition of

interest in associates

Loss on changes in shareholding

in associates

Loss on disposal of available-for-
  sale financial assets
Gain on derecognition of available-for-
  sale financial assets
Net fair value gain on investments
  held for trading
Net fair value loss on investments
  designated as at fair value upon

initial recognition

Equity-settled share-based payments
Interest income other than from

loans receivable

Finance costs
Share of results of associates
Share of results of a joint venture
Changes in working capital:
  Financial assets at fair value through

  profit or loss
  Loans receivable
  Other receivables
  Other payables

經營業務
除稅前溢利
折舊
呆賬撥備撥回
  淨額
投資物業公平值變動
  所產生之收益
收購聯營公司權益所產生
  之收益
聯營公司股權變動
  之虧損
出售可供出售財務
  資產之虧損
終止確認可供出售財務資產
  之收益
持作買賣投資之公平值
  收益淨額
於首次確認時指定為按
  公平值列賬之投資之
  公平值虧損淨額
以股權結算之股份付款
利息收入（不包括來自
  應收貸款者）
融資成本
應佔聯營公司之業績
應佔一家合營公司之業績
營運資金變動：
  按公平值計入損益
  之財務資產

  應收貸款
  其他應收款項
  其他應付款項

Cash generated from (used in) operations 經營所得（所用）現金
Income tax paid
Interest received, other than
from loans receivable

已繳利得稅
已收利息（不包括來自
  應收貸款者）

Net cash from (used in)
  operating activities

經營業務所得
  （所用）現金淨額

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

744,146
283

(990)

(550)

(213,473)

21,247

—

(1,577)

82,436
1,115

(7,488)

(300)

—

—

3,750

—

(149,778)

(72,798)

1,925
—

(5,846)
742
121,231
10,056

665,452
(199,164)
351
23

994,078
—

4,453
616

(7,416)
212
443
—

(2,193)
(89,954)
20,246
662

(66,216)
—

5,846

7,416

999,924

(58,800)

41

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDConsolidated Statement of Cash Flows綜合現金流轉表Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
投資業務
購買物業、
  廠房及設備
就認購聯營公司股份
  所支付之按金

INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase of property, plant
  and equipment
Deposit paid for subscription
  of shares in associates
Subscription of share capital in associates 認購聯營公司股本
Proceeds from disposal of
  available-for-sale financial assets
Deposits paid for acquisition of
  property, plant and equipment
  classified as held for sale
Deposits paid for acquisition of

出售可供出售財務資產
  之所得款項
就收購分類為持作出售
  之物業、廠房及設備
  所支付之按金
就收購投資物業
  所支付之按金
就出售一家附屬公司
  所收取之按金

investment properties

Deposits received for disposal
  of a subsidiary

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

Note
附註

(521)

(299)

—
(891,932)

(19,393)
(19,420)

—

20,845

32

32

(4,996)

(2,400)

6,697

—

—

—

Net cash used in investing activities

投資業務所用現金淨額

(893,152)

(18,267)

FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Placing of shares, net of expenses
Issue of share under share option
  scheme, net of expenses
Issue of unsecured bonds
Repayment of bank loan
Interest paid

融資活動
配售股份，已扣除開支
根據購股權計劃發行股份，
  已扣除開支
發行無抵押債券
償還銀行貸款
支付利息

—

15,554

—
20,000
(179)
(742)

9,278
—
(174)
(212)

Net cash from financing activities

融資活動所得現金淨額

19,079

24,446

Net increase (decrease) in cash
  and cash equivalents

現金及現金等值之
  增加（減少）淨額

Cash and cash equivalents at
  beginning of year

年初之現金及
  現金等值

Cash and cash equivalents at end
  of year, represented by bank
  balances and cash

年終之現金及
  現金等值，指銀行
  結餘及現金

125,851

(52,621)

50,470

103,091

24

176,321

50,470

42

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows綜合現金流轉表Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  GENERAL INFORMATION

1.  一般資料

Willie International Holdings Limited (the “Company”) is a public 
company  incorporated  in  Hong  Kong  and  its  shares  are  listed 
on  The  Stock  Exchange  of  Hong  Kong  Limited  (the  “Stock 
Exchange”). The address of the registered office and the principal 
place of business of the Company are disclosed in the corporate 
information  of  the  annual  report  for  year  2014.  The  principal 
activities  of  the  Group  are  described  in  notes  5  and  7  to  the 
consolidated financial statements.

威利國際控股有限公司（「本公司」）
為於香港註冊成立之公眾公司，其
股 份 在 香 港 聯 合 交 易 所 有 限 公 司
（「聯交所」）上市。本公司之註冊辦
事處及主要營業地點的地址於二零
一四年年報之公司資料中披露。本
集團之主要業務載述於綜合財務報
表附註 5 及 7。

2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

2.  主要會計政策

Basis of preparation
These  consolidated  financial  statements  have  been  prepared 
in  accordance  with  Hong  Kong  Financial  Reporting  Standards 
(“HKFRSs”), which collective term includes all applicable HKFRSs, 
Hong Kong Accounting Standards (“HKASs”) and Interpretations 
issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants 
(“HKICPA”) and accounting principles generally accepted in Hong 
Kong.  These  consolidated  financial  statements  comply  with  the 
applicable requirements of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance 
(Cap.  622)  concerning  the  preparation  of  financial  statements, 
which  for  this  financial  year  and  the  comparative  period 
continue to be those of the predecessor Hong Kong Companies 
Ordinance (Cap.  32),  in  accordance  with  transitional and saving 
arrangements for Part 9 of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance 
(Cap. 622), “Accounts  and  Audit”,  which  are set out in sections 
76 to 87 of Schedule 11 to the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance 
(Cap. 622). These consolidated financial statements also comply 
with  the  applicable  disclosure  requirements  under  the  Rules 
Governing  the  Listing  of  Securities  on  the  Stock  Exchange  (the 
“Listing Rules”).

編製基準
本綜合財務報表按照香港會計師公
會（「香港會計師公會」）頒佈的香港
財 務 報 告 準 則（「香 港 財 務 報 告 準
則」）（包括所有適用的香港財務報告
準則、香港會計準則（「香港會計準
則」）及詮釋）及香港公認會計原則。
本綜合財務報表遵照香港公司條例
（第 622 章）有關編製財務報表之適
用規定，而按照香港公司條例（第
622 章 ）附 表 11 第 76 至 87 條 所 載
有 關 香 港 公 司 條 例（第 622 章 ）第 9
部「賬目及審計」之過渡性及保留安
排，就本財政年度及比較期間繼續
為前身香港公司條例（第 32 章）之適
用規定。本綜合財務報表亦遵照聯
交所證券上市規則（「上市規則」）的
適用披露規定。

These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a 
basis consistent with the accounting policies adopted in the 2013 
consolidated financial statements except for the adoption of the 
following new/revised HKFRSs that are relevant to the Group and 
effective from the current year.

本綜合財務報表根據與二零一三年
綜合財務報表所採用會計政策一致
的基準編製，惟採納以下與本集團
有關且於本年度生效的新訂╱經修
訂香港財務報告準則。

A  summary  of  the  principal  accounting  policies  adopted  by  the 
Group is set out below.

本集團所採納主要會計政策的概要
載於下文。

43

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Adoption of new/revised HKFRSs

Amendments to HKAS 32: Presentation – Offsetting Financial 
Assets and Financial Liabilities
The  amendments  to  HKAS  32  clarify  the  requirements  for 
offsetting financial instruments. These amendments do not have 
an impact on the consolidated financial statements.

Amendments to HKAS 36: Recoverable Amount Disclosures for 
Non-Financial Assets
The amendments to HKAS 36 modify the disclosure requirements 
for  impaired  non-financial  assets.  Among  them,  additional 
information  is  required  to  be  disclosed  when  the  recoverable 
amount  of  impaired  assets  is  based  on  fair  value  less  costs  of 
disposal.  These  amendments  do  not  have  an  impact  on  the 
consolidated financial statements.

Basis of measurement
The  measurement  basis  used  in  the  preparation  of  these 
consolidated  financial  statements  is  historical  cost,  except  for 
investment properties, financial assets at fair value through profit 
or  loss  and  certain  available-for-sale  financial  assets,  which  are 
measured  at  fair  value  as  explained  in  the  principal  accounting 
policies.

採納新訂╱經修訂香港財務報告準
則

香港會計準則第32號之修訂：呈
列－抵銷財務資產及財務負債
香港會計準則第 32 號之修訂澄清有
關抵銷財務工具之規定。該等修訂
並不會對綜合財務報表產生影響。

香港會計準則第36號之修訂：非財
務資產可收回金額披露
香 港 會 計 準 則 第 36 號 之 修 訂 對 有
關已減值非財務資產之披露規定進
行修改，其中規定如若已減值資產
之可收回金額乃基於公平值減出售
成本計算所得，則要求披露額外資
料。該等修訂並不會對綜合財務報
表產生影響。

計量基準
除投資物業、按公平值計入損益之
財務資產及某些可供出售財務資產
按下文所載主要會計政策所述之公
平值計量外，本綜合財務報表按歷
史成本法編製。

44

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Basis of consolidation
These  consolidated  financial  statements  comprise  the  financial 
statements  of  the  Company  and  all  of  its  subsidiaries  as  at  31 
December each year. The financial statements of its subsidiaries 
are prepared for the same reporting year as that of the Company 
using consistent accounting policies.

All  intra-group  balances,  transactions,  incomes  and  expenses 
and profits and losses resulting from intra-group transactions are 
eliminated in full. The results of subsidiaries are consolidated from 
the date on which the Group obtains control and continue to be 
consolidated until the date that such control ceases.

Non-controlling  interests  are  presented  separately  from  equity 
holders  of  the  Company  in  the  consolidated  statement  of 
comprehensive  income  and  within  equity  in  the  consolidated 
statement  of  financial  position.  The  non-controlling  interests  in 
the acquiree, that are present ownership interests and entitle their 
holders  to  a  proportionate  share  of  the  acquiree’s  net  assets  in 
event  of  liquidation,  are  measured  initially  either  at  fair  value  or 
at the present ownership instruments’ proportionate share in the 
recognised  amounts  of  the  acquiree’s  identifiable  net  assets. 
This choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition-by-
acquisition basis.

綜合基準
本綜合財務報表包括本公司及其所
有附屬公司於每年十二月三十一日
之財務報表。其附屬公司之財務報
表均按與本公司相同之報告年度及
一致之會計政策編製。

所有集團內公司間之結餘、交易與
集團內公司間交易所產生的收支及
損益均全數抵銷。附屬公司業績自
本 集 團 取 得 控 制 權 當 日 起 綜 合 入
賬，直至本集團不再擁有控制權當
日為止。

非控股權益於綜合全面收益表內及
綜合財務狀況表權益內與本公司權
益持有人分開呈列。屬現時擁有權
權益並賦予持有人於被收購公司清
盤時按比例分佔被收購公司的非控
股權益初步按公平值或按現時擁有
權工具按比例應佔被收購公司可識
別淨資產確認金額計量。計量基準
依個別收購事項而選擇。

Allocation of total comprehensive income
Profit  or  loss  and  each  component  of  other  comprehensive 
income are attributed to the equity holders of the Company and 
to  the  non-controlling  interests.  Total  comprehensive  income  is 
attributed  to  the  equity  holders  of  the  Company  and  the  non-
controlling  interest  even  if  this  results  in  the  non-controlling 
interest having a deficit balance.

  分配全面收入總額

本公司權益持有人及非控股權益分
佔損益及各部分之其他全面收入。
即 使 會 導 致 非 控 股 權 益 有 虧 絀 結
餘，全面收入總額須分配予本公司
權益持有人及非控股權益。

45

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Basis of consolidation (Cont’d)

綜合基準（續）

  Changes in ownership interest

  擁有權權益之變動

Changes  in  the  Group’s  ownership  interest  in  a  subsidiary  that 
do  not  result  in  a  loss  of  control  are  accounted  for  as  equity 
transactions.  The  carrying  amounts  of  the  controlling  and  non-
controlling  interests  are  adjusted  to  reflect  the  changes  in  their 
relative  interests  in  the  subsidiary.  Any  difference  between  the 
amount  by  which  the  non-controlling  interests  are  adjusted  and 
the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised 
directly  in  equity  and  attributed  to  the  equity  holders  of  the 
Company.

When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on 
disposal is calculated as the difference between (i) the aggregate 
of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of 
any retained interest determined at the date when control is lost 
and (ii) the carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill), and 
liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests at the 
date when control is lost. The amounts previously recognised in 
other comprehensive income in relation to the disposed subsidiary 
are accounted for on the same basis as would be required if the 
Group  had  directly  disposed  of  the  related  assets  or  liabilities. 
Any investment retained in the former subsidiary and any amounts 
owed  by  or  to  the  former  subsidiary  are  accounted  for  as  a 
financial asset,  associate,  joint  venture  or others as appropriate 
from the date when control is lost.

Subsidiaries
A  subsidiary  is  an  entity  that  is  controlled  by  the  Group.  The 
Group  controls  an  entity  when  it  is  exposed,  or  has  rights,  to 
variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the 
ability  to  affect  those  returns  through  its  power  over  the  entity. 
The Group reassesses whether it controls an investee if facts and 
circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of 
the elements of control.

In  the  Company’s  statement  of  financial  position,  investments 
in  subsidiaries  are  stated  at  cost  less  accumulated  impairment 
losses. The carrying amount of the investments is reduced to its 
recoverable amount on an individual basis, if it is higher than the 
recoverable  amount.  The  results  of  subsidiaries  are  accounted 
for  by  the  Company  on  the  basis  of  dividends  received  and 
receivable.

本集團所持附屬公司權益的變更（未
導致失去控制權）作為股權交易入
賬。控股及非控股權益的賬面值根
據所持附屬公司相關權益的變更而
調整。非控股權益所調整的金額與
所付或所收代價公平值的差額直接
於權益確認，歸入公司權益持有人。

本集團失去附屬公司的控制權時，
出售的收益或虧損按 (i) 失去控制權
當日釐定的所收代價總公平值及保
留權益公平值與 (ii) 失去控制權當日
附屬公司的資產（包括商譽）及負債
及非控股權益的賬面值之間的差額
計算。先前於其他全面收入所確認
有關所出售附屬公司的金額按猶如
本集團直接出售相關資產或負債的
方式入賬。於原附屬公司保留的任
何投資或原附屬公司所欠或應付原
附屬公司的任何金額自失去控制權
當日起作為財務資產、聯營公司、
合營公司或其他（如適當）入賬。

附屬公司
附 屬 公 司 是 指 受 本 集 團 控 制 之 實
體。當本集團須承擔或享有參與有
關實體業務所得可變動回報之風險
或權利，並能透過其在該實體之權
力影響該等回報，即本集團對該實
體具有控制權。本集團於有關事實
及情況表明一項或多項控制權因素
出現變動時，重新評估其是否對實
體具有控制權。

本公司之財務狀況報表內，於附屬
公司之投資按成本減累計減值虧損
列賬。如投資賬面值超過可收回金
額，則按個別投資項目撇減至可收
回金額，而附屬公司之業績則由本
公司按已收及應收股息列賬。

46

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Associates and joint ventures
An  associate  is  an  entity  over  which  the  Group  has  significant 
influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the 
financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not 
control or joint control over those policies.

A  joint  venture  is  a  joint  arrangement  whereby  the  parties  that 
have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets 
of  the  arrangement.  A  joint  arrangement  is  an  arrangement  of 
which  two  or  more  parties  have  joint  control.  Joint  control  is  a 
contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which 
exists  only  when  decisions  about  the  relevant  activities  require 
the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. The Group 
reassesses  whether  it  has  joint  control  of  an  arrangement  and 
whether the type of joint arrangement in which it is involved has 
changed, if facts and circumstances change.

The Group’s investment in associates or joint venture is accounted 
for  under  the  equity  method  of  accounting.  The  consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income includes the Group’s share 
of the post-acquisition results of the associates or joint venture for 
the year. The consolidated statement of financial position includes 
the  Group’s  share  of  the  net  assets  of  the  associates  or  joint 
venture.  Except  to  the  extent  that  the  Group  has  incurred  legal 
or  constructive  obligations  or  made  payments  on  behalf  of  the 
associates  or  joint  venture,  the  Group  discontinues  recognising 
its share of further losses when the Group’s share of losses of the 
associate or joint venture equals or exceeds the carrying amount 
of its interest in the associate or joint venture, which includes any 
long  term  interests  that,  in  substance,  form  part  of  the  Group’s 
net investment in the associate or joint venture.

Unrealised profits and losses resulting from transactions between 
the  Group  and  its  associates  or  joint  venture  are  eliminated 
to  the  extent  of  the  Group’s  interest  in  the  associates  or  joint 
venture,  except  where  unrealised  losses  provide  evidence  of 
an  impairment  of  the  asset  transferred,  in  which  case  they  are 
recognised immediately in profit or loss.

聯營公司及合營公司
聯營公司指本集團對其有重大影響
之實體。重大影響是參與投資對象
之財務及經營政策決策之權力，但
並非對該等政策之控制或共同控制。

合營公司為一項合營安排，據此，
對該安排擁有共同控制權之訂約方
有權享有該安排之資產淨值。合營
安排為兩方或以上擁有共同控制權
之安排。共同控制權為訂約協定分
享一項安排之控制權，僅在相關活
動需要享有共同控制權之訂約方一
致 同 意 方 能 作 出 決 定 之 情 況 下 存
在。倘有事實及情況改變，本集團
會重新評估其是否擁有一項安排之
共同控制權及其參與之合營安排之
類別有否改變。

本集團於聯營公司或合營公司之投
資乃根據權益會計法入賬。本集團
所佔聯營公司或合營公司收購後之
業績計入綜合全面收益報表，而本
集團應佔聯營公司或合營公司之淨
資產計入綜合財務狀況報表。當本
集團應佔聯營公司或合營公司之虧
損等於或超出其於聯營公司或合營
公司權益（包括任何實質上為本集團
於聯營公司之或合營公司淨投資部
分的長期權益）之賬面值，本集團會
終止計入其應佔進一步虧損，惟本
集團已招致法定或推定責任或代表
聯營公司或合營公司付款之情況除
外。

本集團與聯營公司或合營公司交易
產生之未變現溢利及虧損以本集團
所持聯營公司或合營公司之權益為
限予以抵銷，惟該未變現虧損證明
已轉讓資產出現減值除外，在此情
況下，則即時於損益內確認相關虧
損。

47

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Associates and joint ventures (Cont’d)
If an investment in a joint venture becomes an investment in an 
associate or vice versa, any retained interest is not remeasured. 
Instead,  the  investment  continues  to  be  accounted  for  under 
the  equity  method.  In  all  other  cases,  on  the  loss  of  significant 
influence  or  joint  control,  the  Group  remeasures  any  retained 
interest in the former associate or joint venture at fair value. The 
difference between the fair value of any retained investment and 
proceeds  from  disposing  of  the  partial  interest  in  the  associate 
and  the  carrying  amount  of  the  investment  at  the  date  when 
significant influence or joint control is lost is recognised in profit 
or  loss.  In  addition,  all  amounts  previously  recognised  in  other 
comprehensive income in respect of the former associate or joint 
venture are accounted for on the same basis as would be required 
if  the  former  associate  or  joint  venture  had  directly  disposed 
of  the  related  assets  or  liabilities.  The  fair  value  of  the  retained 
interest on the date of ceasing to be an associate or joint venture 
is  regarded  as  the  fair  value  on  initial  recognition  as  a  financial 
asset.

In the Company’s statement of financial position, an investment 
in associates and joint venture is stated at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses determined on individual basis. The results of 
associates and joint venture are accounted for by the Company 
on the basis of dividends received and receivable.

Goodwill
Goodwill  arising  on  an  acquisition  of  an  associate  or  a  joint 
venture  is  measured  as  the  excess  of  the  cost  of  investment 
over  the  Group’s  share  of  the  net  fair  value  of  the  identifiable 
assets  and  liabilities  of  the  acquired  associate  or  joint  venture. 
Goodwill on acquisition of associates or joint venture is included 
in interest in associates or joint venture. Goodwill on acquisition of 
subsidiary is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses, 
which is tested annually or more frequently if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. 
For the purpose of impairment test and determination of gain or 
loss on disposal,  goodwill  is  allocated  to cash-generating units. 
An impairment loss on goodwill is not reversed.

聯營公司及合營公司（續）
倘一項於合營公司之投資成為於聯
營公司之投資或於聯營公司之投資
成為於合營公司之投資，任何保留
權益不會予以重新計量。而是，該
項投資會繼續按權益法入賬。在所
有其他情況下，倘本集團失去對聯
營公司或合營公司之重大影響，則
按公平值重新計量於前聯營公司或
合營公司之保留權益。任何保留投
資之公平值加上出售於聯營公司或
合營公司部分權益之所得款項與失
去重大影響當日投資之賬面值之間
的差額於損益確認。此外，先前於
其他全面收入所確認有關該前聯營
公司或合營公司的所有金額按猶如
該前聯營公司或合營公司直接出售
相關資產或負債的方式入賬。保留
權益於終止為聯營公司或合營公司
當日之公平值視為初步確認為財務
資產之公平值。

本公司之財務狀況報表內，於聯營
公司及合營公司之投資按成本減按
個 別 基 準 釐 定 之 累 計 減 值 虧 損 列
賬。聯營公司及合營公司業績則由
本公司按已收及應收股息列賬。

商譽
收購聯營公司或合營公司產生之商
譽乃按投資成本超出本集團於所收
購聯營公司或合營公司分佔之可識
別資產及負債之公平值淨額計量。
收購聯營公司或合營公司產生之商
譽計入於聯營公司或合營公司之權
益。收購附屬公司產生之商譽乃按
成本值扣除累計減值虧損列賬，並
須每年作減值檢測，或倘在某些事
項或情形之變動顯示賬面值可能減
值時，則會更頻繁地進行檢測。就
減值檢測及釐定出售盈虧而言，商
譽乃分配至現金產生單位。商譽之
減值虧損不可撥回。

48

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Goodwill (Cont’d)
In  respect  of  an  associate  or  a  joint  venture,  any  excess  of  the 
Group’s  share  of  its  net  fair  value  of  identifiable  assets  and 
liabilities over the cost of investment is recognised immediately as 
income.

Non-current assets classified as held for sale
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for 
sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through 
a  sale  transaction  rather  than  through  continuing  use.  This 
condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable 
and the asset (or disposal group) is available for immediate sale 
in its present condition. Management must be committed to the 
sale,  which  should  be  expected  to  qualify  for  recognition  as  a 
completed  sale  within  one  year  from  the  date  of  classification. 
Non-current  assets  (and  disposal  groups)  classified  as  held  for 
sale are measured at the lower of their previous carrying amount 
and fair value less costs to sell.

商譽（續）
就聯營公司或合營公司而言，本集
團分佔可識別資產及負債之公平值
淨額超出投資成本之任何差額即時
確認為收入。

分類為持作出售之非流動資產
倘非流動資產及出售組別之賬面值
將主要透過出售交易（而非透過持續
使用）收回，則有關非流動資產及出
售組別會分類為持作出售。只有在
出售極有可能發生且非流動資產（或
出售組別）可於其現況下即時出售
時，方會視為符合本條件。管理層
須致力促成出售，且預期由分類日
期起計一年內符合資格確認為已完
成的出售。分類為持作出售之非流
動資產（及出售組合）按其先前賬面
值與公平值減出售成本之較低者計
量。

Other investments
Other investments are stated at cost less accumulated impairment 
losses.

其他投資
其他投資按成本減累計減值虧損列
賬。

Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The cost of an 
item  of  property,  plant  and  equipment  comprises  its  purchase 
price and any directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to its 
working condition and location for its intended use. Repairs and 
maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the year in which 
they are incurred.

物業、廠房及設備
物業、廠房及設備按成本減累計折
舊及累計減值虧損列賬。物業、廠
房及設備項目之成本包括購買價及
使資產投入運作及運至現址作擬定
用途之任何直接應佔費用。其他維
修及保養費用在產生之年度於損益
扣除。

49

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Property, plant and equipment (Cont’d)
Depreciation  is  provided  to  write  off  the  cost  less  accumulated 
impairment  losses  of  property,  plant  and  equipment  over  their 
estimated useful lives from the date on which they are available 
for  use  and  after  taking  into  account  their  estimated  residual 
values,  using  the  straight-line  method  at  the  following  rates  per 
annum. Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment 
have  different  useful  lives,  the  cost  or  valuation  of  the  item  is 
allocated on a reasonable basis and depreciated separately:

Leasehold improvements
Furniture and fixtures
Office equipment

10% - 20%
10% - 20%
331/3%

An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon 
disposal  or  when  no  future  economic  benefits  are  expected 
to  arise  from  the  continued  use  of  the  asset.  Any  gain  or  loss 
arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as the difference 
between  the  net  disposal  proceeds  and  the  carrying  amount  of 
the item) is included in profit or loss in the year in which the item 
is derecognised.

Investment properties
Investment  properties  are  buildings  that  are  held  by  owner  or 
lessee under finance lease, to earn rental income and for capital 
appreciation.  These  include  properties  held  for  a  currently 
undetermined  future  use  and  properties  that  are  held  under 
operating lease, which satisfy the definition of investment property 
and carry at fair value.

Investment  properties  are  stated  at  fair  value  at  the  end  of  the 
reporting  period.  Any  gain  or  loss  arising  from  a  change  in  fair 
value is recognised in profit or loss. The fair value of investment 
property  is  based  on  a  valuation  by  an  independent  valuer  who 
holds  a  recognised  professional  qualification  and  has  recent 
experience in the location and category of property being valued.

An  investment  property  is  derecognised  upon  disposal  or  when 
the investment property is permanently withdrawn from use and 
no future economic benefits are expected from its disposals. Any 
gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as 
the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount  of  the  asset)  is  included  in  profit  or  loss  in  the  year  in 
which the item is derecognised.

物業、廠房及設備（續）
物業、廠房及設備之折舊自可供使
用當日起於估計使用年限並計及其
估計剩餘價值後，以直線法按下列
年度比率撇銷其成本減累計減值虧
損撥備。倘物業、廠房及設備項目
各部分具不同使用年限，則在各部
分按合理基準分配有關項目的成本
或估值，並單獨計提折舊：

租賃物業裝修
傢俬及裝置
辦公室設備

10% - 20%
10% - 20%
331/3%

物業、廠房及設備項目於出售或預
期持續使用該等資產將不會產生未
來經濟利益時終止確認。終止確認
資產所產生的盈虧（按出售所得款項
淨額與該項目賬面值之差額計算）於
終止確認項目年度計入損益。

投資物業
投資物業乃由業主持有或承租人根
據融資租約持有為賺取租金收入及
資本增值之樓宇，包括持有現時未
釐定將來用途之物業以及根據經營
租約持有之物業，而此等物業須符
合投資物業之定義並按公平值列賬。

投資物業乃按於呈報期結算日之公
平值列賬。因公平值變動而產生之
任何損益乃於損益確認。投資物業
之公平值乃根據獨立估值師（其持有
獲認可之專業資格並於近期曾評估
同地區之同類物業）作出之估值計
算。

一項投資物業於出售後或當該項投
資物業永久不再使用及預計不會從
其出售中獲得未來經濟利益時終止
確認。因終止確認該項資產而產生
之任何盈虧（按出售所得款項淨額與
該項資產之賬面值之差額計算）於該
項目終止確認之年度計入損益內。

50

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Financial instruments

  Recognition and derecognition

金融工具
  確認及終止確認

Financial  assets  and  financial  liabilities  are  recognised  when 
and  only  when  the  Group  becomes  a  party  to  the  contractual 
provisions of the instruments and on a trade date basis.

僅於本集團成為工具合約條款之訂
約方時，財務資產及財務負債將按
交易日之基準確認。

A  financial  asset  is  derecognised  when  and  only  when  (i)  the 
Group’s contractual rights to future cash flows from the financial 
asset  expire  or  (ii)  the  Group  transfers  the  financial  asset  and 
either  (a)  the  Group  transfers  substantially  all  the  risks  and 
rewards  of  ownership  of  the  financial  asset,  or  (b)  the  Group 
neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards 
of ownership of the financial asset but it does not retain control of 
the financial asset.

財務資產僅於 (i) 本集團自該財務資
產獲取未來現金流量之合約權利屆
滿或 (ii) 本集團轉讓該財務資產且 (a)
將其擁有權之絕大部分風險及回報
轉讓，或 (b) 本集團無轉讓或保留財
務資產擁有權之絕大部分風險及回
報但並無保留對該財務資產之控制
權時，方終止確認。

A  financial  liability  is  derecognised  when  and  only  when  the 
liability  is  extinguished,  that  is,  when  the  obligation  specified  in 
the relevant contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.

而財務負債則僅於負債消除（即相關
合約訂明之責任解除、取消或到期）
時，方終止確認。

Initial measurement
Financial  assets  or  financial  liabilities  are  initially  recognised  at 
their  fair  value  plus,  in  the  case  of  financial  assets  or  financial 
liabilities not carried at fair value through profit or loss, transaction 
costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the 
financial assets or financial liabilities.

  初始計量

財務資產或財務負債（倘其並非屬於
按公平值計入損益的財務資產或財
務負債）須於首次確認時按公平值加
購買或發行財務資產或財務負債之
直接應佔交易成本列賬。

Financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss
Financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss include financial assets held for trading and financial assets 
or financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair 
value through profit or loss. They are carried at fair value, with any 
resulting gain and loss recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or 
loss recognised in profit or loss excludes any dividend or interest 
earned on the financial assets and is included in turnover in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income.

  按公平值計入損益之財務資產或財

務負債
按公平值計入損益之財務資產或財
務負債包括持作買賣之財務資產及
於首次確認時指定為按公平值計入
損益之財務資產或財務負債。該等
財務資產或負債按公平值列賬，並
於損益中計入所產生之任何收益或
虧損。於損益確認之收益或虧損淨
額不包括財務資產所賺取之任何股
息或利息，且入賬綜合全面收益表
之營業額。

51

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Financial instruments (Cont’d)

金融工具（續）

Financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss (Cont’d)
Financial  assets  or  financial  liabilities  are  classified  as  held  for 
trading if they are (i) acquired principally for the purpose of selling 
in  the  near  future;  (ii)  part  of  a  portfolio  of  identified  financial 
instruments  that  the  Group  manages  together  and  has  a  recent 
actual  pattern  of  short-term  profit-taking;  or  (iii)  derivatives  that 
are  not  financial  guarantee  contracts  or  not  designated  and 
effective hedging instruments.

Financial  assets  or  financial  liabilities  are  designated  at  initial 
recognition  as  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss  only  if  (i)  the 
designation  eliminates  or  significantly  reduces  the  inconsistent 
treatment that would otherwise arise from measuring the assets 
or  liabilities  or  recognising  gains  or  losses  on  a  different  basis; 
or (ii) they are part of a group of financial assets and/or financial 
liabilities  that  are  managed  and  their  performance  evaluated 
on  a  fair  value  basis,  in  accordance  with  a  documented  risk 
management strategy; or (iii) they contain embedded derivatives 
that would need to be separately recorded.

Where  a  contract  contains  one  or  more  embedded  derivatives, 
the entire hybrid contract may be designated as a financial asset 
at fair value through profit or loss, except where the embedded 
derivative does not significantly modify the cash flows or it is clear 
that separation of the embedded derivative is prohibited.

  按公平值計入損益之財務資產或財

務負債（續）
倘財務資產或財務負債 (i) 被收購之
主要目的為於不久將來出售；(ii) 為
本集團集中管理之可識別金融工具
組合之一部分，並已於近期形成短
期獲利之實際模式；或 (iii) 並非財務
擔保合約或指定為有效對沖工具之
衍生工具，則分類為持作買賣。

僅在符合以下條件時，財務資產或
財務負債方可於首次確認時指定為
按公平值計入損益：(i) 該指定抵銷
或大幅減少按不同基準計量資產或
負債或確認收益或虧損所產生之不
一致處理結果；或 (ii) 有關財務資產
或財務負債為一組根據明文訂立之
風險管理策略管理，並按公平值基
準評估表現之財務資產及╱或財務
負債組合之一部分；或 (iii) 該等財務
資產或財務負債包含須分開列示之
嵌入式衍生工具。

倘合約包括一項或多項嵌入式衍生
工具，整份組合合約可指定為按公
平值計入損益的財務資產，惟該嵌
入式衍生工具對現金流量並無重大
影響或明確禁止單獨計量嵌入式金
融工具則除外。

52

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Financial instruments (Cont’d)

Loans and receivables
Loans  and  receivables  including  other  receivables,  loans 
receivable,  and  bank  balances  and  cash  are  non-derivative 
financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not 
quoted in an active market and are not held for trading. They are 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, 
except  where  receivables  are  interest-free  loans  and  without 
any  fixed  repayment  term  or  the  effect  of  discounting  would  be 
insignificant.  In  such  case,  the  receivables  are  stated  at  cost 
less  impairment  loss.  Amortised  cost  is  calculated  by  taking 
into  account  any  discount  or  premium  on  acquisition  over  the 
period to maturity. Gains and losses arising from derecognition, 
impairment or through the amortisation process are recognised in 
profit or loss.

Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale  financial  assets  are  non-derivative  financial 
assets that are either designated at this category or not classified 
in  any  of  the  other  categories  of  financial  assets.  They  are 
measured  at  fair  value  with  changes  in  value  recognised  as  a 
separate component of equity until the assets are sold, collected 
or  otherwise  disposed  of,  or  until  the  assets  are  determined  to 
be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously 
reported in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or 
loss as a reclassification adjustment.

金融工具（續）

  貸款及應收款項

貸款及應收款項（包括其他應收款
項、應收貸款以及銀行結餘及現金）
為具固定或可釐定付款金額之非衍
生財務資產，且於活躍市場並無報
價及並非持作買賣用途。其以實際
利率法按攤銷成本計量，惟倘應收
款項為免息貸款且無任何固定還款
期或折現影響並不重大，則應收款
項按成本扣除減值虧損列賬。所計
算之攤銷成本已計及直至到期日止
之期間的任何收購折讓或溢價。於
終止確認、減值時或於攤銷過程中
產生之盈虧均計入損益。

  可供出售財務資產

可供出售財務資產為指定為可供出
售或並非歸類為其他財務資產類別
之任何一類的非衍生財務資產，並
按公平值計量，而公平值之變動則
確認為權益之獨立部分，直至該資
產被出售、收回或另行處置或直至
該資產被釐定為已減值為止，屆時
先前於其他全面收入呈報之累計盈
虧則重新分類至損益，列作重新分
類調整。

Available-for-sale  financial  assets  that  do  not  have  a  quoted 
market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be 
reliably measured are stated at cost less impairment loss.

於活躍市場並無報價且公平值無法
可靠計量的可供出售財務資產須按
成本扣除減值虧損列賬。

Financial liabilities
The  Group’s  financial  liabilities  include  other  payables,  interest-
bearing borrowing and unsecured bonds. All financial liabilities are 
recognised initially at their fair value and subsequently measured 
at  amortised  cost,  using  effective  interest  method,  unless  the 
effect  of  discounting  would  be  insignificant,  in  which  case  they 
are stated at cost.

  財務負債

本集團之財務負債包括其他應付款
項、計息借款及無抵押債券。所有
財務負債於首次確認時按公平值列
賬，其後以實際利率法按攤銷成本
計量，除非折現之影響不甚重大，
則按成本列賬。

53

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Financial instruments (Cont’d)
Financial guarantee contracts
A  financial  guarantee  contract  is  a  contract  that  requires  the 
issuer of the contract to make specified payments to reimburse 
the holder of the contract for a loss the holder incurs because a 
specified debtor fails to make payments when due in accordance 
with the terms of a debt instrument.

Financial  guarantee  contracts  issued  by  the  Group  are  initially 
measured  at  their  fair  values  and,  if  not  measured  at  fair  value 
through profit or loss, are carried at the higher of (i) the amount of 
the  obligation  under  the  contract,  as  determined  in  accordance 
with HKAS 37: Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent 
Assets;  and  (ii)  the  amount  initially  recognised  less,  where 
appropriate,  cumulative  amortisation  recognised  in  accordance 
with the revenue recognition policies.

Impairment of financial assets
At the end of each reporting period, the Group assesses whether 
there is objective evidence that financial assets, other than those 
at fair value through profit or loss, are impaired. The impairment 
loss  of  financial  assets  carried  at  amortised  cost  is  measured 
as  the  difference  between  the  assets’  carrying  amount  and  the 
present  value  of  estimated  future  cash  flow  discounted  at  the 
financial assets’ original effective interest rate. Such impairment 
loss  is  reversed  in  subsequent  periods  through  profit  or  loss 
when  an  increase  in  the  assets’  recoverable  amount  can  be 
related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was 
recognised,  subject  to  a  restriction  that  the  carrying  amount  of 
the asset at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed 
what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not 
been recognised.

金融工具（續）
  財務擔保合約

財務擔保合約即合約訂約方在指定
債務人未能按照債務文據條款支付
到期款項以致授約方蒙受損失時，
須向授約方償付指定款項之合約。

本集團簽訂之財務擔保合約於首次
確認時按公平值計量，倘並非指定
為按公平值計入損益，則按 (i) 根據
香 港 會 計 準 則 第 37 號：撥備、或
然負債及或然資產釐定之合約的債
務金額；及 (ii) 以首次確認之金額減
（倘適用）按照收益確認政策所確認
之累計攤銷，兩者中之較高者列賬。

  財務資產減值

於各呈報期結算日，本集團評估是
否有客觀證據顯示財務資產（按公平
值計入損益之財務資產除外）出現
減值。以攤銷成本列賬之財務資產
減值虧損乃按資產賬面值與按財務
資產原有實際利率折現之估計未來
現金流量現值兩者之差額計量。倘
於確認減值虧損後發生客觀地相關
連之事件，以致資產可收回金額增
加，該減值虧損可於隨後期間透過
損益撥回，惟該資產於撥回減值當
日之賬面值不得超逾倘無確認該減
值而應有之攤銷成本。

54

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Financial instruments (Cont’d)
Impairment of financial assets (Cont’d)
When an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, an amount 
comprising  the  difference  between  its  acquisition  cost  (net  of 
any principal repayment and amortisation) and current fair value, 
less any previously recognised impairment loss in profit or loss, 
is  reclassified  from  equity  to  profit  or  loss  as  a  reclassification 
adjustment.  Impairment  losses  recognised  in  profit  or  loss  in 
respect  of  available-for-sale  equity  instrument  are  not  reversed 
through  profit  or  loss.  Any  subsequent  increase  in  fair  value  of 
available-for-sale equity instrument after recognition of impairment 
loss is recognised in equity. Impairment loss of available-for-sale 
debt instruments is reversed through profit or loss, if the increase 
in  fair  value  of  the  instrument  can  be  objectively  related  to  an 
event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.

For an available-for-sale financial asset that is carried at cost, the 
amount of impairment loss is measured as the difference between 
the carrying amount of the financial asset and the present value of 
estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate 
of return for a similar financial asset. Such impairment loss shall 
not be reversed.

Cash equivalents
For  the  purpose  of  consolidated  statement  of  cash  flows,  cash 
equivalents represent short-term highly liquid investments which 
are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are 
subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.

金融工具（續）
  財務資產減值（續）

倘可供出售財務資產出現減值，其
購買成本（已扣除本金償還款及攤
銷）與當前公平值的差額減去先前
於損益確認之減值虧損的金額由權
益重新分類至損益列作重新分類調
整。已計入損益的可供出售股本工
具的減值虧損不可透過損益撥回。
可供出售股本工具於確認減值虧損
後的任何公平值增加須於權益內確
認。倘於確認減值虧損後發生客觀
地相關連之事件，以致債務工具之
公平值增加，則可供出售債務工具
的減值虧損可透過損益撥回。

按成本列賬的可供出售財務資產之
減值虧損，可按財務資產賬面值與
同類財務資產當前市場回報率折現
之估計未來現金流量現值兩者之差
額計量。有關減值虧損不可撥回。

現金等值
在綜合現金流轉表，現金等值指可
隨時兌換為已知數額現金，且價值
變化風險不大的短期高流動投資。

55

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Revenue recognition
Revenue  is  recognised  when  it  is  probable  that  the  economic 
benefits will flow to the Group and when the revenue and costs, if 
applicable, can be measured reliably and on the following bases:

收入確認
收 入 乃 於 經 濟 利 益 可 能 流 向 本 集
團，而收入與成本（如適用）能可靠
計量時按以下基準確認：

Net  income  from  the  sale  of  investments  at  fair  value  through 
profit  or  loss  are  recognised  on  the  transaction  date  when  the 
relevant sale and purchase contract is entered into.

出售按公平值計入損益之投資所得
收益淨額於訂立有關買賣合約之交
易日確認。

Interest income from financial asset is accrued on a time basis, by 
reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest 
rate applicable.

財務資產之利息收入經參考未償還
本金及按適用實際利率以時間基準
累計。

Dividend  income  from  investments  is  recognised  when  the 
Group’s rights to receive payment have been established.

投資之股息收入於本集團收取款項
之權利確立時確認。

Rental  income  under  operating  leases  is  recognised  when  the 
properties are let out and on the straight line basis over the lease 
term.

經營租約之租金收入以直線法按租
期在物業出租時確認。

Foreign currencies translation
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s 
entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment  in  which  the  entity  operates  (the  “functional 
currency”). The  consolidated  financial  statements are presented 
in  the  currency  of  Hong  Kong  dollars,  which  is  the  Company’s 
functional currency.

Foreign  currency  transactions  are  translated  into  the  functional 
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the 
transactions.  Foreign  exchange  gains  and  losses  resulting  from 
the  settlement  of  such  transactions  and  from  the  translation 
at  year-end  exchange  rates  of  monetary  assets  and  liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in profit or loss. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the retranslation 
of  non-monetary  items  carried  at  fair  value  are  recognised  in 
profit  or  loss  except  for  those  arising  on  the  retranslation  of 
non-monetary  items  in  respect  of  which  gains  and  losses  are 
recognised directly in equity, in which cases, the gains or losses 
are also recognised directly in equity.

外幣換算
本集團各公司財務報表所包括項目
以有關公司經營所在主要經濟環境
的貨幣（「功能貨幣」）計量。綜合財
務報表以本公司功能貨幣港元呈列。

外幣交易按交易日的滙率換算為功
能貨幣。結算該等交易及按年結日
滙率換算以外幣計值的貨幣資產及
負 債 所 產 生 的 滙 兌 盈 虧 於 損 益 確
認。 重 新 換 算 按 公 平 值 列 賬 的 非
貨幣項目所產生的滙兌盈虧計入損
益，惟重新換算盈虧直接於權益確
認之非貨幣項目產生者，則滙兌盈
虧亦直接於權益確認。

56

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 

• 

• 

• 

2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Foreign currencies translation (Cont’d)
The results and financial position of all the group entities that have 
a  functional  currency  different  from  the  presentation  currency 
(“foreign operations”) are translated into the presentation currency 
as follows:

Assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position 
presented  and,  where  applicable,  goodwill  and  fair  value 
adjustments on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
arising on an acquisition of a foreign operation which are to 
be treated as assets and liabilities of that foreign operation, 
are translated at the closing rate at the end of the reporting 
period.

外幣換算（續）
所有功能貨幣有別於呈列貨幣的集
團公司（「境外業務」）的業績及財務
狀況按以下方式換算為呈列貨幣：

‧  各財務狀況表呈列的資產及負
債以及（倘適用）收購境外業務
所產生商譽及資產及負債賬面
值之公平值調整（視作該境外
業務的資產及負債）按結算日
的收市滙率換算。

Income and expenses for each statement of comprehensive 
income are translated at average exchange rate.

‧  各全面收益表的收支以平均滙

率換算。

All  resulting  exchange  differences  arising  from  the  above 
translation and exchange differences arising from a monetary 
item  that  forms  part  of  the  Group’s  net  investment  in  a 
foreign operation are recognised as a separate component 
of equity.

On  the  disposal  of  a  foreign  operation,  which  includes  a 
disposal of the Group’s entire interest in a foreign operation, 
a  disposal  involving  the  loss  of  control  over  a  subsidiary 
that includes a foreign operation, or a partial disposal of an 
interest in a joint arrangement or an associate that includes 
a  foreign  operation  of  which  the  retained  interest  is  no 
longer  equity-accounted  for,  the  cumulative  amount  of  the 
exchange differences relating to the foreign operation that is 
recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated 
in  the  separate  component  of  equity  is  reclassified  from 
equity to profit or loss when the gain or loss on disposal is 
recognised.

‧  上述交易所產生所有滙兌差額
及屬於本集團於境外業務投資
淨額的貨幣項目所產生的滙兌
差額確認為權益的獨立部分。

‧  於出售海外業務（包括出售本
集團於海外業務之全部權益、
涉及失去對一間附屬公司（包
括海外業務）之控制權之出售
或部分出售於合營安排或聯營
公司之權益（包括其保留權益
不 再 入 賬 列 為 股 權 之 海 外 業
務）時，有關於其他全面收入
確認且於權益中獨立部分累計
之海外業務之滙兌差額之累計
款項，於出售盈虧獲確認時於
損益內確認。

57

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Foreign currencies translation (Cont’d)
• 

On the partial disposal of the Group’s interest in a subsidiary 
that includes a foreign operation which does not result in the 
Group losing control over the subsidiary, the proportionate 
share of the cumulative amount of the exchange differences 
recognised  in  the  separate  component  of  equity  is  re-
attributed  to  the  non-controlling  interests  in  that  foreign 
operation and is not reclassified to profit or loss.

• 

On  all  other  partial  disposals,  which  includes  partial 
disposal  of  associates  or  joint  ventures  that  do  not  result 
in the Group losing significant influence or joint control, the 
proportionate share of the cumulative amount of exchange 
differences recognised in the separate component of equity 
is reclassified to profit or loss.

Impairment of other assets
At  the  end  of  each  reporting  period,  the  Group  reviews  internal 
and  external  sources  of  information  to  assess  whether  there 
is  any  indication  that  its  property,  plant  and  equipment,  other 
investments, and investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint 
venture may be impaired or impairment loss previously recognised 
no longer exists or may be reduced. If any such indication exists, 
the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated, based on the 
higher  of  its  fair  value  less  costs  of  disposal  and  value  in  use. 
Where  it  is  not  possible  to  estimate  the  recoverable  amount 
of  an  individual  asset,  the  Group  estimates  the  recoverable 
amount of the smallest group of assets that generates cash flows 
independently (i.e. a cash-generating unit).

If  the  recoverable  amount  of  an  asset  or  a  cash-generating  unit 
is  estimated  to  be  less  than  its  carrying  amount,  the  carrying 
amount  of  the  asset  or  cash-generating  unit  is  reduced  to  its 
recoverable  amount.  Impairment  losses  are  recognised  as  an 
expense immediately, except where the relevant asset is carried 
at revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated 
as a revaluation decrease in accordance to the accounting policy 
relevant to that asset.

外幣換算（續）
‧  於部分出售本集團於一間包括
有海外業務之附屬公司的權益
（但本集團並無因此而失去對
該附屬公司之控制權）時，於
權益的獨立部分中確認的累計
滙兌差額的比例份額會由該海
外業務的非控股權益重新分佔
及不會重新分類至損益。

‧  於所有其他部分出售（包括對
聯營公司或合營公司的部分出
售，而該出售不會導致本集團
失去重大影響或共同控制權）
時，於權益之獨立部分中確認
的累計滙兌差額之比例份額會
重新分類至損益。

其他資產減值
於各呈報期結算日，本集團檢討內
部 及 外 間 資 訊 來 源， 以 評 估 其 物
業、廠房及設備、其他投資及於附
屬公司、聯營公司及合營公司之投
資是否存在減值跡象或先前確認之
減值虧損已不再存在或可能減少。
倘存在任何上述跡象，其可收回金
額將以該資產之公平值減銷售成本
或使用價值（以較高者為準）估算。
倘 無 法 估 算 個 別 資 產 之 可 收 回 金
額，本集團則估算能獨立產生現金
流量之最小資產組合（即現金產生單
位）之可收回金額。

倘估算資產或現金產生單位之可收
回金額低於其賬面值，則該項資產
或現金產生單位之賬面值將調低至
其可收回金額。減值虧損即時確認
為開支，惟倘有關資產按重估金額
列賬，則減值虧損將根據該資產相
關會計政策視為重估減值。

58

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Impairment of other assets (Cont’d)
A  reversal  of  impairment  loss  is  limited  to  the  carrying  amount 
of  the  asset  or  cash-generating  unit  that  would  have  been 
determined  had  no  impairment  loss  been  recognised  in  prior 
years.  Reversal  of  impairment  loss  is  recognised  as  income 
in  profit  or  loss  immediately,  except  where  the  relevant  asset 
is  carried  at  revalued  amount,  in  which  case  the  reversal  of 
impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase in accordance 
to the accounting policy relevant to that asset.

其他資產減值（續）
減值虧損撥回之金額不得超逾該資
產或現金產生單位倘在過往年度並
無確認減值虧損而應有之賬面值。
減值虧損撥回即時於損益確認為收
入， 惟 倘 有 關 資 產 按 重 估 金 額 列
賬，則減值虧損撥回將根據該資產
相關會計政策視為重估增值。

The  accounting  policy  for  recognition  and  reversal  of  the 
impairment loss for goodwill is stated in the accounting policy for 
goodwill in the earlier part of this note.

商譽減值虧損之確認及撥回之會計
政策乃於本附註前文之商譽會計政
策內陳述。

Borrowing costs
Borrowing  costs  incurred,  net  of  any  investment  income  on  the 
temporary investment of the specific borrowings, that are directly 
attributable  to  the  acquisition,  construction  or  production  of 
qualifying  assets,  i.e.  assets  that  necessarily  take  a  substantial 
period  of  time  to  get  ready  for  their  intended  use  or  sale,  are 
capitalised as  part  of  the  cost  of  those  assets. Capitalisation of 
such  borrowing  costs  ceases  when  the  assets  are  substantially 
ready for their intended use or sale. All other borrowing costs are 
recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.

Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the 
lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.

Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the 
Group at the lower of the fair value of the leased assets and the 
present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding 
liability to the lessor is included in the consolidated statement of 
financial  position  as  finance  lease  obligation.  Finance  charges, 
which  represent  the  difference  between  the  total  leasing 
commitments  and  the  fair  value  of  the  assets  acquired,  are 
charged to profit or loss over the term of the relevant lease so as 
to  produce  a  constant  periodic  rate  of  charge  on  the  remaining 
balance of the obligations for each accounting period.

借貸成本
借貸成本於產生時扣除購買、建設
或生產合資格資產（即需花費一段較
長期間方可供作擬定用途或出售的
資產）之直接相關的指定借貸之暫時
投資的任何投資收入後，撥作該等
資產成本一部分。當該等資產大致
可供作擬定用途或出售時，停止將
該等借貸成本資本化。所有其他借
貸成本於產生期間確認為開支。

租約
凡租約條款將擁有權絕大部分風險
及回報轉予承租人之租約均分類為
融資租約。所有其他租約則分類為
經營租約。

根據融資租約所持資產按租賃資產
公平值或最低融資款項現值之較低
者確認為本集團資產。出租人之相
應負債作為融資租約負債計入綜合
財務狀況報表。財務費用指租賃承
擔 總 額 與 所 購 買 資 產 公 平 值 的 差
額，於相關租約期間自損益扣除，
從而於各會計期間按固定定期比率
計算承擔餘額。

Rentals payable/receivable  under  operating leases are charged/
credited to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of 
the relevant lease.

根據經營租約之應付╱應收租金於
有關租約期間內按直線法於損益中
扣除╱計入。

59

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Employee benefits
Short-term employee benefits
Salaries,  annual  bonuses,  paid  annual  leave,  contributions  to 
defined  contribution  retirement  scheme  and  the  cost  of  non-
monetary benefits are accrued in the year in which the associated 
services  are  rendered  by  employees.  Where  payment  or 
settlement  is  deferred  and  the  effect  would  be  material,  these 
amounts are stated at their present values.

僱員福利
  短期僱員福利

薪金、年度花紅、帶薪年假、界定
供款退休計劃供款及非金錢福利之
成本，於僱員提供相關服務之年度
累計。倘延遲支付或結算產生重大
影響，該等數額則按現值列賬。

  Defined contribution scheme

  界定供款計劃

The obligations for contributions to defined contribution retirement 
scheme are recognised as an expense in profit or loss as incurred 
and  are  reduced  by  contributions  forfeited  by  those  employees 
who leave the scheme prior the contributions are vested fully in 
these employees. The assets of the scheme are held separately 
from those of the Group in an independent administered fund.

向界定供款退休計劃供款之責任於
產生時列為開支計入損益內，並扣
除因僱員在取得全數供款前退出該
計劃而沒收之供款。該計劃之資產
與本集團之資產分開持有並存放於
獨立管理基金。

Long service payments
The  Group’s  net  obligation  in  respect  of  long  service  payments 
under  the  Hong  Kong  Employment  Ordinance  is  the  amounts 
of  future  benefit  that  employees  have  earned  in  return  for  their 
services  in  the  current  and  prior  periods.  The  obligation  is 
calculated using the projected unit credit method and discounted 
to  its  present  value  and  after  deducting  the  fair  value  of  any 
related assets, including those retirement scheme benefit.

  長期服務金

本集團根據香港僱員條例之長期服
務金為僱員於本期間及過往期間之
服務所得之未來利益回報計算其承
擔淨額。該承擔數額按預計單位信
託法計算，並於扣除任何相關資產
（包括退休計劃福利）之公平值後折
現至現值。

60

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Share-based payment transactions
Equity-settled transactions
The  Group’s  employees  and  consultants  receive  remuneration 
in  the  form  of  share-based  payment  transactions,  whereby  the 
employees  and  consultants  rendered  services  in  exchange 
for  shares  or  rights  over  shares.  The  cost  of  such  transactions 
with  employees  is  measured  by  reference  to  the  fair  value  of 
the equity instruments  at  the  grant  date.  The fair value of share 
options granted to employees is recognised as an employee cost 
with  a  corresponding  increase  in  a  reserve  within  equity.  The 
fair  value  is  determined  using  the  option  pricing  model,  taking 
into account the terms and conditions of the transactions, other 
than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company 
(“market conditions”).

The  cost  of  equity-settled  transactions  is  recognised,  together 
with a corresponding increase in equity, over the year(s) in which 
the  vesting  conditions  are  to  be  fulfilled,  ending  on  the  date  on 
which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award 
(“vesting date”).  During  the  vesting  period, the number of share 
options  that  is  expected  to  vest  ultimately  is  reviewed.  Any 
adjustment to the cumulative fair value recognised in prior years is 
charged/credited to profit or loss for the year of the review, with a 
corresponding adjustment to the reserve within equity.

When  the  share  options  are  forfeited  after  the  vesting  date  or 
are  still  not  exercised  at  the  expiry  date,  the  amount  previously 
recognised  in  share  options  reserve  will  be  transferred  to 
accumulated profits or losses.

Equity-settled  share-based  payment  transactions  with  parties 
other than employees are measured at the fair value of the goods 
or  services  received,  except  where  that  fair  value  cannot  be 
estimated  reliably,  in  which  case  they  are  measured  at  the  fair 
value  of  the  equity  instruments  granted,  at  the  date  the  Group 
obtains the goods or the counterparty renders the services.

股份付款交易

  以股權結算交易

本集團的僱員及顧問以股份付款交
易方式收取薪酬，當中僱員及顧問
提供服務以換取股份或股權。該等
與 僱 員 交 易 之 成 本 乃 參 考 授 出 日
期 之 股 本 工 具 公 平 值 而 釐 定。 授
予 僱 員 之 購 股 權 公 平 值 確 認 為 僱
員成本，並於權益內的儲備作出相
應增加。公平值採用期權定價模式
釐定，並計及交易條款及條件，惟
與本公司股價有關的條件（「市場條
件」）除外。

以股權結算交易之成本連同相應的
權益增加一併於歸屬條件須予達成
之年度內確認，直至相關僱員全面
享 有 有 關 回 報 當 日（「歸 屬 日 」）為
止。預期最終歸屬之購股權數目於
歸屬期內予以檢討。過往年度已確
認累計公平值之任何調整於回顧年
度之損益中扣除╱計入，並於權益
之儲備作出相應調整。

倘購股權於歸屬日後遭沒收或於到
期日尚未行使，則過往於購股權儲
備確認的金額轉撥至累計溢利或虧
損。

與非僱員人士進行以股權結算之股
份付款交易按所收取商品或服務之
公平值計量，惟公平值不能可靠估
計的情況下按所授股本工具於本集
團取得商品或交易對方提供服務當
日的公平值計量。

61

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Taxation
The charge for current income tax is based on the results for the 
year as adjusted for items that are non-assessable or disallowed. 
It  is  calculated  using  tax  rates  that  have  been  enacted  or 
substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.

Deferred  tax  is  provided,  using  the  liability  method,  on  all 
temporary differences at the end of the reporting period between 
the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts 
in the consolidated  financial  statements.  However, any deferred 
tax  arising  from  initial  recognition  of  goodwill;  or  other  asset  or 
liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at 
the time of the transaction affects neither the accounting profit nor 
taxable profit or loss is not recognised.

The  deferred  tax  liabilities  and  assets  are  measured  at  the  tax 
rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is 
recovered or liability is settled, based on the tax rates and the tax 
laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end 
of the reporting period.

Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that  future  taxable  profit  will  be  available  against  which  the 
deductible temporary differences, tax losses and credits can be 
utilised.

Deferred  tax  is  provided  on  temporary  differences  arising  on 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except 
where  the  timing  of  the  reversal  of  the  temporary  differences  is 
controlled  by  the  Group  and  it  is  probable  that  the  temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

For the purposes of measuring deferred tax liabilities or deferred 
tax  assets  for  investment  properties  that  are  measured  using 
the  fair  value  model,  the  carrying  amounts  of  such  properties 
are  presumed  to  be  recovered  entirely  through  sale,  unless  the 
presumption  is  rebutted.  The  presumption  is  rebutted  when  the 
investment property is depreciable and is held within a business 
model  whose  objective  is  to  consume  substantially  all  of  the 
economic  benefits  embodied  in  the  investment  property  over 
time, rather than through sale.

稅項
現時利得稅開支根據年內業績就毋
須課稅或減免項目調整後釐定。稅
項按呈報期結算日已生效或實質生
效之稅率計算。

遞延稅項根據負債法按呈報期結算
日資產及負債之稅基與綜合財務報
表所示之賬面值兩者之所有暫時差
額計提撥備。然而，初步確認商譽
或交易（非業務合併）的其他資產或
負債所產生且交易時既不影響會計
溢利亦不影響應課稅溢利或虧損的
任何遞延稅項，則不予確認。

遞延稅項負債及資產按收回資產或
清償負債期間之預期適用稅率，並
根據於呈報期結算日已生效或實質
生效之稅率及稅法計算。

倘未來可能有應課稅溢利抵銷可動
用之可扣除暫時差額、稅項虧損及
抵免，則確認遞延稅項資產。

除本集團能控制暫時差額撥回時間
及不大可能於可見未來撥回暫時差
額外，則就附屬公司、聯營公司及
合營公司之投資所產生之暫時差額
計提遞延稅項撥備。

就以公平值模式計價之投資物業而
計算的遞延稅項負債或遞延稅項資
產而言，有關物業之賬面值乃事先
假設為將會透過出售而全數重獲價
值，惟該事先假設被否定則除外。
當投資物業是可予以折舊，而持有
物業的業務模式旨在隨時間（而非通
過出售）消耗該投資物業的絕大部分
經濟利益，則該項事先假設可予否
定。

62

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Related parties
A related party is a person or entity that is related to the Group.

(a)  A person or a close member of that person’s family is related 

to the Group if that person:

關連人士
關連人士指與本集團有關連的個人
或實體。

(a)  倘屬以下人士，則該人士或該
人士之近親與本集團有關連：

(i) 

has control or joint control over the Group;

(i)  控 制 或 共 同 控 制 本 集

團；

(ii) 

has significant influence over the Group; or

(ii)  對本集團有重大影響；

或

(iii) 

is a member of the key management personnel of the 
Group.

(iii)  為本集團之主要管理層

成員。

(b)  An  entity  is  related  to  the  Group  if  any  of  the  following 

(b)  倘符合下列任何條件，則該實

conditions applies:

(i) 

The  entity  and  the  Group  are  members  of  the  same 
group  (which  means  that  each  holding  company, 
subsidiary  and  fellow  subsidiary  is  related  to  the 
others).

(ii)  One entity is an associate or joint venture of the other 
entity (or an associate or joint venture of a member of a 
group of which the other entity is a member).

體與本集團有關連：

(i)  該實體與本集團屬同一
集團之成員公司（即各控
股公司、附屬公司及同
系附屬公司彼此間有關
連）。

(ii)  一間實體為另一實體之
聯營公司或合營公司（或
為另一實體所屬集團旗
下成員公司之聯營公司
或合營公司）。

(iii)  Both entities are joint ventures of the same third party.

(iii)  兩間實體均為同一第三

(iv)  One  entity  is  a  joint  venture  of  a  third  entity  and  the 

other entity is an associate of the third entity.

(v)  The entity is controlled or jointly controlled by a person 

identified in (a).

(vi)  A  person  identified  in  (a)  (i)  has  significant  influence 
over the entity or is a member of the key management 
personnel of the entity (or of a parent of the entity).

方之合營公司。

(iv)  一間實體為第三方實體
之合營公司，而另一實
體為該第三方實體之聯
營公司。

(v)  實體受 (a) 內所識別人士
控制或共同控制。

(vi) 

(a)(i) 內 所 識 別 人 士 對 實
體有重大影響力或為該
實 體（或 該 實 體 之 母 公
司）之主要管理層成員。

63

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
2.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Cont’d)

2.  主要會計政策（續）

Related parties (Cont’d)
Close  members  of  the  family  of  a  person  are  those  family 
members who may be expected to influence, or be influenced by, 
that person in their dealings with the entity and include:

關連人士（續）
一名人士之近親指預期可影響該人
士與實體進行買賣或於買賣時受該
人士影響的有關家屬成員，包括：

(a) 

that person’s children and spouse or domestic partner;

(a)  該名人士的子女及配偶或同居

伴侶；

(b)  children of that person’s spouse or domestic partner; and

(b)  該名人士的配偶或同居伴侶的

子女；及

(c)  dependants  of  that  person  or  that  person’s  spouse  or 

(c)  該名人士或該名人士的配偶或

domestic partner.

In  the  definition  of  a  related  party,  an  associate  includes 
subsidiaries  of  the  associate  and  a  joint  venture  includes 
subsidiaries of the joint venture.

Segment reporting
Operating  segments,  and  the  amounts  of  each  segment  item 
reported  in  the  consolidated  financial  statements,  are  identified 
from  the  financial  information  provided  to  the  Group’s  chief 
operating decision makers for the purpose of allocating resources 
to, and assessing the performance of, the Group’s various lines of 
business and geographical locations.

Individually  material  operating  segments  are  not  aggregated  for 
financial  reporting  purposes  unless  the  segments  have  similar 
economic characteristics and are similar in respect of the nature 
of services, the type or class of customers, the methods used to 
provide the services, and the nature of the regulatory environment. 
Operating  segments  which  are  not  individually  material  may  be 
aggregated if they share a majority of these criteria.

同居伴侶的受養人。

根據關連人士的定義，聯營公司包
括有關聯營公司的附屬公司，而合
營公司包括有關合營公司的附屬公
司。

分部報告
綜合財務報表所呈報之經營分部及
各分部項目金額與提供予本集團首
席經營決策者以作出有關本集團各
類業務單位及地理位置的資源分配
及表現評估的財務資料屬一致。

個別重大經營分部就財務呈報目的
而言不予合併，除非分部具有類似
經濟特點且服務性質、客戶類型或
類別、提供服務所使用的方法及監
管環境性質相似。並非個別重大的
經營分部如同時滿足大部分上述標
準，則可合併成一類。

64

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  FUTURE CHANGES IN HKFRSs

3.  香港財務報告準則之未來變動

At  the  date  of  authorisation  of  these  consolidated  financial 
statements,  the  HKICPA  has  issued  a  number  of  new/revised 
HKFRSs that are not yet effective for the current year, which the 
Group  has  not  early  adopted.  The  directors  do  not  anticipate 
that  the  adoption  of  these  new/revised  HKFRSs  (which  may  be 
relevant  to  the  Group)  in  the  future  periods  will  have  material 
impact on the result of the Group.

本集團並未提早採納於本綜合財務
報表獲批准之日香港會計師公會已
頒 布 但 本 年 度 尚 未 生 效 之 多 項 新 
訂╱經修訂香港財務報告準則。董
事預計，於未來期間採用該等新訂
╱經修訂香港財務報告準則（可能與
本集團相關）將不會對本集團之業績
造成重大影響。

Various HKFRSs

Annual Improvements Project –
  2010-2012 Cycle 1

多項香港財務
  報告準則

Various HKFRSs

Annual Improvements Project –
  2011-2013 Cycle 1

多項香港財務
  報告準則

Amendments to HKAS 1

Amendments to HKAS 16
  and HKAS 38

Presentation of Financial
  Statements: Disclosure
  Initiative 2
Clarification of Acceptable
  Methods of Depreciation
  and Amortisation 2

Amendments to HKAS 27

(2011)

Equity Method in Separate
  Financial Statements 2

Amendments to HKAS 28
(2011) and HKFRS 10

Sale or Contribution of Assets
  between an Investor and
  its Associate or Joint Venture 2

Amendments to HKAS 28

(2011), HKFRSs 10 and 12

Investment Entities: Applying the
  Consolidation Exception 2

香港會計準則
  第 1 號之修訂

香港會計準則
  第 16 號及
  香港會計準則
  第 38 號之
  修訂
香港會計準則
  第 27 號之
  修訂
  （二零一一年）
香港會計準則
  第 28 號
  （二零一一年）
  及香港財務
  報告準則
  第 10 號之
  修訂
香港會計準則
  第 28 號（二零
  一一年）、
  香港財務報告
  準則第 10 號
  及第 12 號
  之修訂

年度改進項目
  －二零一零年
  至二零一二年
  週期1
年度改進項目
  －二零一一年
  至二零一三年
  週期1
呈列財務報表
  －披露計劃2

澄清折舊及攤薄
  之可接受方法2

獨立財務報表之
  權益法2

投資者與其聯營
  公司或合營
  公司之間之
  資產出售或
  投入2

投資實體：應用
  綜合入賬之
  例外情況2

65

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
3.  FUTURE CHANGES IN HKFRSs (Cont’d)

3.  香 港 財 務 報 告 準 則 之 未 來 變 動

Amendments to HKFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of

   Interests in Joint Operations 2

HKFRS 14

Regulatory Deferral Accounts 2

Various HKFRSs

Annual Improvements Project –
  2012-2014 Cycle 3

HKFRS 15

HKFRS 9 (2014)

Revenue from Contracts
  with Customers 4
Financial Instruments 5

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014, with 
limited exceptions

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, 
with limited exceptions

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017

Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018

（續）

香港財務報告
  準則第 11 號
  之修訂
香港財務報告
  準則第 14 號
多項香港財務
  報告準則

香港財務報告
  準則第 15 號
香港財務報告
  準則第 9 號
  （二零一四年）

收購合營業務
  權益之會計法2

監管遞延賬目2

年度改進項目
  －二零一二年
  至二零一四年
  週期3
與客戶合約之
  收入4
財務工具5

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

除有限例外情況外，於二零一四
年七月一日或之後開始之年度期
間生效
於二零一六年一月一日或之後開
始之年度期間生效
除有限例外情況外，於二零一六
年一月一日或之後開始之年度期
間生效
於二零一七年一月一日或之後開
始之年度期間生效
於二零一八年一月一日或之後開
始之年度期間生效

4.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS

4.  主要會計估計及判斷

Estimates and assumptions concerning the future and judgements 
are  made  by  the  management  in  the  preparation  of  these 
consolidated  financial  statements.  They  affect  the  application 
of the Group’s accounting policies, reported amounts of assets, 
liabilities,  income  and  expenses,  and  disclosures  made.  They 
are assessed on an on-going basis and are based on experience 
and relevant factors, including expectations of future events that 
are  believed  to  be  reasonable  under  the  circumstances.  Where 
appropriate, revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in 
the period of revision and future periods, in case the revision also 
affects future periods.

編製本綜合財務報表時，管理層作
出有關未來之估計及假設以及有關
判斷，對本集團會計政策之應用、
資產、負債、收支之呈報金額，以
及所作出之披露有所影響，並持續
予以評估。有關估計、假設及判斷
基於經驗及有關因素（包括對有關情
況下應屬合理之未來事項之預期）作
出。於適當情況下，會計估計之修
訂會在修訂期間及未來期間（倘有關
修訂亦影響未來期間）予以確認。

66

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
4.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS 

4.  主要會計估計及判斷（續）

(Cont’d)

Impairment of investments and receivables
The  Group  assesses  annually  if  interests  in  subsidiaries, 
associates  and  joint  venture  have  suffered  any  impairment  in 
accordance  with  HKAS  36  and  follows  the  guidance  of  HKAS 
39  in  determining  whether  amounts  due  from  these  entities 
and  available-for-sale  financial  assets  measured  at  cost  less 
impairment  are  impaired.  Details  of  the  approach  are  stated  in 
the  respective  accounting  policies.  The  assessment  requires  an 
estimation  of  future  cash  flows,  including  expected  dividends 
from the assets and the selection of appropriate discount rates. 
Future  changes  in  financial  performance  and  position  of  these 
entities would affect the estimation of impairment loss and cause 
the adjustments of their carrying amounts.

For  available-for-sale  financial  assets  measured  at  fair  value, 
a  significant  or  prolonged  decline  in  fair  value  below  cost  is 
considered  to  be  objective  evidence  of  impairment.  Judgement 
is  required  when  determining  whether  a  decline  in  fair  value 
has  been  significant  or  prolonged.  In  making  this  judgement, 
the historical data on market volatility as well as the price of the 
specific investment are taken into account. The Group also takes 
into account financial information regarding the issuers/investees.

Allowance for bad and doubtful debts
The provisioning policy for bad and doubtful debts of the Group 
is  based  on  the  evaluation  by  management  of  the  collectability 
of  the  loans  receivable.  A  considerable  amount  of  judgement  is 
required in assessing the ultimate realisation of these receivables, 
including  assessing  the  current  creditworthiness  and  the  past 
collection history of each borrower. If the financial conditions of 
these  borrowers  were  to  deteriorate,  resulting  in  an  impairment 
of  their  ability  to  make  payments,  additional  allowance  will  be 
required. At the end of the reporting period, the carrying amount 
of  loans  receivable  after  allowance  for  impairment  amounted  to 
HK$320,373,000 (2013:HK$120,219,000).

投資及應收款項減值
本集團按香港會計準則第 36 號每年
評估於附屬公司、聯營公司及合營
公司之權益有否減值，並遵循香港
會計準則第 39 號之指引釐定應收該
等公司之款項及按成本減減值計量
之可供出售財務資產有否減值。方
法詳情載於相關會計政策。該項評
估須估計資產之未來現金流量（包括
預期股息）及選用恰當折現率。該等
公司未來財務表現及狀況之變動會
影響減值虧損估計，以致須調整其
賬面值。

按公平值計量之可供出售財務資產
之公平值若大幅或持續下降至低於
成本，則視為減值之客觀證據。當
釐定公平值是否出現大幅或持續下
降時，須作出判斷。於作出判斷時
已計及市場波動之過往數據及特定
投資價格。本集團亦考慮發行方╱
投資對象之財務資料。

呆壞賬撥備
本集團之呆壞賬撥備政策乃基於管
理 層 對 應 收 貸 款 之 可 收 回 程 度 評
估。評估該等應收款項之最終變現
能力（包括評估各借款人當前信譽
狀況及過往還款記錄）時須作出大
量判斷。倘若該等借款人之財務狀
況惡化，令其還款能力減弱，則須
計提額外撥備。於呈報期結算日，
減 值 撥 備 後 應 收 貸 款 之 賬 面 值 為
320,373,000 港 元（二零一三年：
120,219,000港元）。

67

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  TURNOVER 

5.  營業額

Turnover  recognised  from  the  principal  activities  of  the  Group 
during  the  year  including  trading  of  investments,  provision  of 
financial services, property investment and investment holding is 
as follows:

本集團於本年度內經營之主要業務
（包括買賣投資、提供金融服務、物
業投資及投資控股）所確認之營業額
如下：

Net gain from the sale of investments 
  at fair value through profit or loss*
Dividend income from investments
Interest income from investments
Interest income from loans 
  and other receivables
Rental income

出售按公平值計入損益之
  投資所得收益淨額 *
投資之股息收入
投資之利息收入
應收貸款及其他應收
  款項之利息收入
租金收入

* 

Represented the proceeds from the sale of investments at fair value 
through profit or loss of HK$1,592,434,000 (2013: HK$287,620,000) 
less  cost  of  sales  and  carrying  value  of  the  investments  sold  of 
HK$1,072,429,000 (2013: HK$270,298,000).

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

520,005
29,058
5,844

12,551
430

567,888

17,322
11,567
7,411

8,624
422

45,346

* 

指出售按公平值計入損益之投資
所 得 款 項 1,592,434,000 港 元（二
零一三年：287,620,000港元）
減銷售成本及已出售投資的賬面
值 1,072,429,000 港 元（二零一三
年：270,298,000港元）。

68

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  OTHER INCOME

6.  其他收入

Interest income from financial institutions 來自金融機構的利息收入
Corporate guarantee fee
Commission income
Others

公司擔保費
佣金收入
其他

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2
418
557
29

1,006

5
1,304
159
87

1,555

7.  SEGMENT INFORMATION

7.  分部資料

The directors have been identified as the chief operating decision 
makers to evaluate the performance of operating segments and 
to  allocate  resources  to  those  segments  based  on  the  Group’s 
internal  reporting  in  respect  of  these  segments.  The  directors 
consider  trading  of  investments,  provision  of  financial  services, 
property  investment  and  investment  holding  are  the  Group’s 
major  operating  segments.  Segment  results  represent  the  profit 
earned or loss incurred by each segment. The following analysis 
is the measurement method reported to chief operating decision 
makers for the purpose of resources allocation and assessment of 
segment performance.

董事視為首席經營決策者，基於本
集團有關該等分部的內部報告，對
經營分部表現及分配分部資源作出
評估。董事認為買賣投資、提供金
融服務、物業投資及投資控股乃本
集團主要經營分部。分部業績指各
分部賺取的溢利或承擔的虧損。下
列分析呈報予首席經營決策者，作
為分配資源及評估分部表現的計量
方法。

Operating segments of the Group comprise the following:

本集團之經營分部包括下列各項：

Trading of investments
Provision of financial 
  services
Property investment

Investment holding

: Purchase and sale of securities
: Provision of loan financing services

: Holding properties for rental 
  and capital appreciation

: Holding investments for dividend 
  and investment income and 
  capital appreciation

買賣投資 : 買賣證券
提供金融 : 提供貸款融資服務
  服務
物業投資 : 為賺取租金收入及
  資本增值而持有
  之物業

投資控股 : 為賺取股息、投資
  收入及資本增值
  而持有之投資

69

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  SEGMENT INFORMATION (Cont’d)

7.  分部資料（續）

(a)  Segment revenue and results

(a)  分部收入及業績

The  following  is  an  analysis  of  the  Group’s  revenue  and 
results from operations by operating segments:

Year ended 31 December 2014

本集團按經營分部劃分的經營
收入及業績分析載列如下：

截至二零一四年十二月三十一
日止年度

Trading of 
investments

買賣投資
HK$’000
千港元

Provision of 
financial 
services
提供
金融服務
HK$’000
千港元

Property 
investment

Investment 

holding Unallocated

Total

物業投資
HK$’000
千港元

投資控股
HK$’000
千港元

未分配
HK$’000
千港元

總計
HK$’000
千港元

Segment revenue

分部收入

554,907

12,551

430

—

—

567,888

674,348

12,131

756

16,401

(21,264)

682,372

—

—

—
(116)
—
—

640
(16)

624

(21,247)

1,577

213,473
(382)
(121,231)
(10,056)

—

—

—
—
—
—

78,535
—

(21,264)
—

(21,247)

1,577

213,473
(742)
(121,231)
(10,056)

744,146
(16)

78,535

(21,264)

744,130

Profit (loss) for the year before 

following items:

Loss on changes in shareholding 

in associates

Gain on derecognition of available-for-
  sale financial assets
Gain arising from acquisition of 

interest in associates

Finance costs
Share of results of associates
Share of results of a joint venture

除以下各項前之年內
  溢利（虧損）：
聯營公司股權變動
  之虧損
終止確認可供出售財務
  資產之收益
收購聯營公司權益所產生
  之收益
融資成本
應佔聯營公司之業績
應佔一家合營公司之業績

—

—

—
(244)
—
—

—

—

—
—
—
—

Profit (loss) before taxation
Taxation

除稅前溢利（虧損）
稅項

674,104
—

12,131
—

Segment results

分部業績

674,104

12,131

70

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  SEGMENT INFORMATION (Cont’d)

7.  分部資料（續）

(a)  Segment revenue and results (Cont’d)

(a)  分部收入及業績（續）

Year ended 31 December 2013

截至二零一三年十二月三十一
日止年度

Trading of 
investments

買賣投資
HK$’000
千港元

Provision of 
financial 
services
提供
金融服務
HK$’000
千港元

Property 
investment

Investment 
holding

Unallocated

Total

物業投資
HK$’000
千港元

投資控股
HK$’000
千港元

未分配
HK$’000
千港元

總計
HK$’000
千港元

Segment revenue

分部收入

36,300

8,624

422

—

—

45,346

Profit (loss) for the year before 

following items:

Loss on disposal of available-for-
  sale financial assets
Finance costs
Share of results of associates

Profit (loss) before taxation
Taxation

除以下各項前之
  年內溢利（虧損）：
出售可供出售
  財務資產之虧損
融資成本
應佔聯營公司之業績

除稅前溢利（虧損）
稅項

Segment results

分部業績

89,235

14,834

—
(91)
—

—
—
—

89,144
—

14,834
—

89,144

14,834

Segment  revenue  reported  above  represents  revenue 
generated  from  external  customers.  There  was  no  inter-
segment revenue in both years.

Revenue  and  expenses  are  allocated  to  the  reporting 
segments  with  reference  to  turnover  generated  by  those 
segments  and  the  expenses  incurred  by  those  segments 
or  which  otherwise  arise  from  the  depreciation  of  assets 
attributable to those segments.

The  accounting  policies  of  the  operating  segments  are 
the  same  as  the  Group’s  accounting  policies  described  in 
note  2  to  the  consolidated  financial  statements.  Segment 
results  represent  the  results  achieved  by  each  segment 
without  allocation  of  central  administration  costs  including 
directors’  emoluments.  This  is  the  measurement  method 
reported  to  the  chief  operating  decision  makers  for  the 
purpose of resources allocation and assessment of segment 
performance.

555

—
(121)
—

434
(43)

391

8,370

(26,153)

86,841

(3,750)
—
(443)

4,177
—

4,177

—
—
—

(26,153)
—

(3,750)
(212)
(443)

82,436
(43)

(26,153)

82,393

上表所呈列分部收入指來自外部客
戶的收入。上述兩個年度概無分部
間收入。

收入及開支經參考該等分部產生之
營業額及應計之開支或該等分部應
佔之資產折舊所產生的銷售額及開
支後分配至呈報分部。

經 營 分 部 的 會 計 政 策 與 綜 合 財 務
報表附註 2 所述本集團會計政策一
致。 分 部 業 績 指 各 分 部 取 得 的 業
績（未扣除董事酬金等中央管理成
本）。此乃為分配資源及評估分部表
現而向主要經營決策者呈報所用計
量方法。

71

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  SEGMENT INFORMATION (Cont’d)

7.  分部資料（續）

(b)  Segment assets and liabilities

(b)  分部資產及負債

An analysis of the Group’s assets and liabilities by operating 
segments is set out below.

本集團按經營分部劃分之資產
及負債分析載列如下。

Trading of 
investments

買賣投資
HK$’000
千港元

Provision of 
financial 
services
提供
金融服務
HK$’000
千港元

Property 
investment

Investment 
holding

物業投資
HK$’000
千港元

投資控股
HK$’000
千港元

532,137
—
—

455,836
—
—

14,277
—
—

34,195
995,771
559,945

(88)

(115)

(4,326)

(22,327)

1,012,670
—

135,349
—

11,383
—

619,598
35,785

(93)

(60)

(4,489)

(647)

Total

總計
HK$’000
千港元

1,036,445
995,771
559,945
7,020

2,599,181

(26,856)
(6,723)

(33,579)

1,779,000
35,785
3,551

1,818,336

(5,289)
(1,733)

(7,022)

At 31 December 2014
Assets
Segment assets
Interest in associates
Interest in a joint venture 於一家合營公司之權益
Unallocated assets

於二零一四年十二月三十一日
資產
分部資產
於聯營公司之權益

未分配資產

Total assets

總資產

Liabilities
Segment liabilities
Unallocated liabilities

負債
分部負債
未分配負債

Total liabilities

總負債

At 31 December 2013
Assets
Segment assets
Interest in associates
Unallocated assets

於二零一三年十二月三十一日
資產
分部資產
於聯營公司之權益
未分配資產

Total assets

總資產

Liabilities
Segment liabilities
Unallocated liabilities

負債
分部負債
未分配負債

Total liabilities

總負債

72

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  SEGMENT INFORMATION (Cont’d)

7.  分部資料（續）

(b)  Segment assets and liabilities (Cont’d)

(b)  分部資產及負債（續）

For  the  purpose  of  monitoring  segment  performance  and 
allocating resources between segments:

• 

• 

Segment  assets  include  mainly  all  tangible  assets, 
interests  in  a  joint  venture  and  associates,  available-
for-sale  financial  assets,  financial  assets  at  fair 
value  through  profit  or  loss,  loans  receivable,  other 
receivables and cash and cash equivalents. All assets 
are  allocated  to  operating  segments  other  than 
unallocated head office and corporate assets as these 
assets are managed on a group basis.

Segment  liabilities  include  other  payables,  interest-
bearing borrowing, unsecured bonds and tax payable. 
All liabilities are allocated to operating segments other 
than unallocated head office and corporate liabilities as 
these liabilities are managed on a group basis.

為監察分部表現及分部間之資
源分配：

‧  分部資產主要包括所有
有形資產、於一家合營
公 司 及 聯 營 公 司 之 權
益、 可 供 出 售 財 務 資
產、按公平值計入損益
之 財 務 資 產、 應 收 貸
款、其他應收款項與現
金及現金等值。除按集
團基準管理之未分配總
部及企業資產外，所有
資產均已分配至經營分
部。

‧  分部負債包括其他應付
款 項、 計 息 借 貸、 無 抵
押債券及應付稅款。除
按集團基準管理之未分
配總部及企業負債外，
所有負債均已分配至經
營分部。

73

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
7.  SEGMENT INFORMATION (Cont’d)

7.  分部資料（續）

(c)  Other segment information

(c)  其他分部資料

An  analysis  of  the  Group’s  other  segment  information  by 
operating segments is set out below.

Year ended 31 December 2014

Trading of 
investments

買賣投資
HK$’000
千港元

—
—

Provision of 
financial 
services
提供
金融服務
HK$’000
千港元

(325)
(46)

5,846

12,551

—

990

149,778

(1,925)

—

—

—

—

Property 
investment

物業投資
HK$’000
千港元

—
(80)

—

—

—

—

550

Capital expenditure
Depreciation
Interest income included in turnover 
  and other income
Reversal of allowance for 
  doubtful debts, net
Net fair value gain on investments 
  held for trading
Net fair value loss on investments 
  designated as at fair value upon 

initial recognition

Gain arising from changes in fair value 
  of investment properties

資本開支
折舊
計入營業額及其他收入
  的利息收入
呆賬撥備撥回
  淨額
持作買賣投資之公平值
  收益淨額
於首次確認時指定為
  按公平值列賬之投資
  之公平值虧損淨額
投資物業公平值變動
  所產生之收益

本集團按經營分部劃分之其他
分部資料載列如下。

截至二零一四年十二月三十一
日止年度

Investment 

holding Unallocated

Total

投資控股
HK$’000
千港元

(891,932)
—

未分配
HK$’000
千港元

總計
HK$’000
千港元

(196)
(157)

(892,453)
(283)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

18,397

990

149,778

(1,925)

550

74

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  SEGMENT INFORMATION (Cont’d)

7.  分部資料（續）

(c)  Other segment information (Cont’d)

(c)  其他分部資料（續）

Year ended 31 December 2013

Capital expenditure
Depreciation
Interest income included in turnover 
  and other income
Reversal of allowance for 
  doubtful debts, net
Net fair value gain on investments 
  held for trading
Net fair value loss on investments 
  designated as at fair value upon 

initial recognition

Gain arising from changes in fair value 
  of investment properties

資本開支
折舊
計入營業額及其他收入
  的利息收入
呆賬撥備撥回
  淨額
持作買賣投資之公平值
  收益淨額
於首次確認時指定為
  按公平值列賬之投資
  之公平值虧損淨額
投資物業公平值變動
  所產生之收益

截至二零一三年十二月三十一
日止年度

Property 
investment

Investment 
holding

Unallocated

Total

物業投資
HK$’000
千港元

投資控股
HK$’000
千港元

(243)
(47)

—

—

—

—

300

—
—

—

—

—

—

—

未分配
HK$’000
千港元

(56)
(1,068)

—

—

—

—

—

總計
HK$’000
千港元

(299)
(1,115)

16,040

7,488

72,798

(4,453)

300

Trading of 
investments

買賣投資
HK$’000
千港元

Provision of 
financial 
services
提供
金融服務
HK$’000
千港元

—
—

7,416

—

72,798

(4,453)

—

—
—

8,624

7,488

—

—

—

75

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  SEGMENT INFORMATION (Cont’d)

(d)  Geographical information

7.  分部資料（續）

(d)  地區資料

The  Group’s  operations  are  located  in  Hong  Kong  and 
Kingdom of Bhutan.

The Group’s revenue from external customers by locations 
of operations and information about the non-current assets 
(excluding  financial  instruments)  by  locations of assets are 
detailed below:

本集團業務位於香港及不丹王
國。

本集團按業務位置劃分之來自
外 部 客 戶 之 收 入 及 按 資 產 位
置劃分之有關非流動資產（不
包括財務工具）之資料詳述如
下：

Revenue from
external customers
來自外部客戶之收入

Non-current
assets
非流動資產

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

Hong Kong
Kingdom of Bhutan

香港
不丹王國

567,888
—

45,346
—

1,532,829
42,174

16,099
35,785

567,888

45,346

1,575,003

51,884

(e) 

Information about major customers
During  the  year,  included  in  the  revenue  arising  from 
provision  of  financial  services  and  property  investment 
segments  of  HK$12,981,000 (2013: HK$9,046,000) were 
revenue  arose  from  interest  income  from  the  following 
customers  which  contributed  individually  10%  or  more  of 
revenue.  During  the  year  ended  31  December  2013,  no 
revenue  from  transactions  with  a  single  external  customer 
amounted  to  10%  or  more  of  the  Group’s  revenue  of 
provision  of  financial  services  and  property  investment 
segments.

Customer A
Customer B
Customer C

客戶 A
客戶 B
客戶 C

76

(e)  有關主要客戶之資料

於 本 年 度 內， 計 入 提 供 金 融
服 務 及 物 業 投 資 分 部 之 收 入
12,981,000 港 元（二零一三
年：9,046,000港元）包 括 來
自下列客戶利息收入產生之收
入， 各 自 佔 該 收 入 10% 或 以
上。於截至二零一三年十二月
三十一日止年度，與單名外部
客戶之交易所得收入概無佔本
集團提供金融服務及物業投資
分部所得收入之 10% 或以上。

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2,041
1,367
1,364

4,772

—
—
—

—

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  SEGMENT INFORMATION (Cont’d)

7.  分部資料（續）

(e) 

Information about major customers (Cont’d)

(e)  有關主要客戶之資料（續）

Revenue  of  customers  A,  B  and  C  are  derived  from  the 
Group’s provision of financial services segment.

客戶 A、B 及 C 之收入源自本
集團提供金融服務分部。

8.  PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION

8.  除稅前溢利

This is stated after charging:

經扣除下列項目：

Finance costs
Interest on:
  Bank and other borrowings 

  wholly repayable within five years

  Bank and other borrowings 

  wholly repayable over five years

融資成本
利息：
  須於五年內悉數償還之
  銀行及其他借款
  須於五年後悉數償還之
  銀行及其他借款

Other items
Employee benefits expenses 

(excluding directors’ emoluments)

  Salaries, allowances and 

  benefits in kind

  Contributions to defined 

  contribution retirement scheme
  Employees’ share-based payment

其他項目
僱員福利支出
  （不包括董事酬金）
  薪金、津貼及
  實物利益
  界定退休計劃

  供款

  以股份付款方式給僱員

Auditor’s remuneration
Operating lease payments 
  on equipment
Operating lease payments on premises 樓宇之經營租約費用
Direct operating expenses arising 

核數師酬金
設備之經營租約
  費用

投資物業產生之
  直接經營支出

from investment properties

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

245

497

742

4,997

214
—

5,211

1,300

99
4,902

104

91

121

212

5,579

143
354

6,076

820

85
2,157

88

77

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.  DIRECTORS’  EMOLUMENTS  AND  FIVE  HIGHEST  PAID 

9.  董事酬金及五名最高薪人士

INDIVIDUALS

Directors’ emoluments
The aggregate amount of emoluments received or receivable by 
the Company’s directors are as follows:

Year ended 31 December 2014

董事酬金
本公司董事已收或應收之酬金總額
如下：

截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止
年度

Contributions 
to defined 
Salaries, 
contribution 
allowances 
retirement 
and benefits 
scheme
in kind
薪金、津貼
界定
及實物利益 退休計劃供款
HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

Directors’ 
fees

董事袍金
HK$’ 000
千港元

—
—
—
—

—

240
240
120

80

680

360
600
780
1,056

1,425

—
—
—

—

4,221

3
16
17
17

13

—
—
—

—

66

Total

總計
HK$’ 000
千港元

363
616
797
1,073

1,438

240
240
120

80

4,967

Executive directors
Chuang Yueheng, Henry
Cheung Ka Yee
Cheung Wing Ping
Man Wai Chuen
Wong Ying Seung, Asiong 

(resigned on 16 October 2014)

Independent non-executive 
  directors
Antonio Maria Santos
Frank H. Miu
Yau Yan Ming, Raymond
Wen Louis (resigned on 
  1 September 2014)

執行董事
莊友衡
張嘉儀
張榮平
文惠存
王迎祥（於二零一四年
  十月十六日辭任）

獨立非執行
  董事
杜東尼
繆希
邱恩明
溫耒（於二零一四年
  九月一日辭任）

78

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.  DIRECTORS’  EMOLUMENTS  AND  FIVE  HIGHEST  PAID 

9.  董事酬金及五名最高薪人士（續）

INDIVIDUALS (Cont’d)

Directors’ emoluments (Cont’d)
Year ended 31 December 2013

Executive directors
Chuang Yueheng, Henry
Cheung Ka Yee 

(appointed on 1 July 2014)

Cheung Wing Ping (re-designated 
from independent non-executive 

  director to executive director 
  on 1 July 2013)
Man Wai Chuen (appointed on 
  1 July 2013)
Fung Yue Tak, Derek (resigned on 
  1 July 2013)
Tsui Hung Wai, Alfred (resigned 
  on 1 July 2013)
Wong Ying Seung, Asiong

Independent non-executive 
  directors
Cheung Wing Ping (re-designated 

to executive director)

Frank H. Miu
Antonio Maria Santos
Wen Louis
Yau Yan Ming, Raymond

執行董事
莊友衡
張嘉儀（於二零一四年
  七月一日獲委任）
張榮平（於二零一三年
  七月一日從獨立
  非執行董事
  調任為執行董事）
文惠存（於二零一三年
  七月一日獲委任）
馮裕德（於二零一三年
  七月一日辭任）
徐鴻偉（於二零一三年
  七月一日辭任）
王迎祥

獨立非執行
  董事
張榮平
  （調任執行董事）
繆希
杜東尼
溫耒
邱恩明

董事酬金（續）
截至二零一三年十二月三十一日止
年度

Contributions 
to defined 
Salaries, 
contribution 
allowances 
retirement 
and benefits 
scheme
in kind
界定
薪金、津貼
及實物利益 退休計劃供款
HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

Directors’ 
fees

董事袍金
HK$’ 000
千港元

Total

總計
HK$’ 000
千港元

—

—

—

—

—

—
—

—
240
240
120
120

720

360

300

390

528

360

330
1,800

—
—
—
—
—

4,068

3

7

7

7

8

8
15

—
—
—
—
—

55

363

307

397

535

368

338
1,815

—
240
240
120
120

4,843

During  the  year,  Chuang  Yueheng,  Henry (2013: Chuang 
Yueheng, Henry and Cheung Wing Ping)  waived emoluments of 
HK$1,800,000 (2013: HK$1,800,000 and HK$60,000 respectively).

於 本 年 度 內， 莊 友 衡（二零一三
年：莊友衡及張榮平）放 棄 酬 金
1,800,000 港元（二零一三年：分別
1,800,000港元及60,000港元）。

79

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.  DIRECTORS’  EMOLUMENTS  AND  FIVE  HIGHEST  PAID 

9.  董事酬金及五名最高薪人士（續）

INDIVIDUALS (Cont’d)

Five highest paid individuals
The  five  highest  paid  individuals  of  the  Group  during  the 
year  included  four (2013: four)  directors,  details  of  whose 
remunerations are set out above. Details of the remunerations of 
the remaining one (2013: one) highest paid individual, who is not a 
director of the Company, for the year are as follows:

Salaries, allowances and 
  benefits in kind
Contributions to defined 
  contribution retirement scheme

薪金、津貼及實物利益

界定退休計劃
  供款

五名最高薪人士
本年度內，本集團五名最高薪人士
包 括 四 名（二零一三年：四名）董
事，彼等之薪酬詳情載於上文。本
年度內，餘下一名（二零一三年：一 
名）最高薪人士（非本公司董事）之薪
酬如下：

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

416

17

433

479

15

494

The above one (2013: one) highest paid individual fell within the 
following band:

上述一名（二零一三年：一名）最高
薪人士的薪酬介乎以下範圍：

2014
二零一四年

2013
二零一三年

Nil to HK$1,000,000

零至 1,000,000 港元

1

1

80

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  TAXATION

10.  稅項

Hong  Kong  Profits  Tax  has  not  been  provided  as  the  Group’s 
estimated  assessable  profits  for  the  year  are  wholly  absorbed 
by unrelieved tax losses brought forward from previous years. In 
2013, Hong Kong Profits Tax has not been provided as the Group 
incurred a loss for taxation purposes.

Deferred taxation
  Origination of temporary differences

遞延稅項
  暫時性差額之產生

Total tax expenses for the year

本年度內稅項開支總額

Reconciliation of tax expense

由於本集團於本年度之估計應課稅
溢利將被過往年度結轉之未扣除稅
項虧損完全抵銷，因此並無就香港
利得稅作出撥備。於二零一三年，
由於本集團就稅務目的而言出現虧
損，因此並無計提香港利得稅。

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

16

16

43

43

稅項開支對賬

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

Profit before taxation

除稅前溢利

744,146

82,436

Income tax at applicable tax rate 
  of 16.5% (2013: 16.5%)

按 16.5%（二零一三年：
  16.5%）之適用稅率計算
  之利得稅
不可扣除支出
稅項豁免收益
未確認稅項虧損
未確認暫時性差額
動用過往未確認
  之稅項虧損
確認過往未確認
  之稅項虧損
確認過往未確認之
  遞延稅項負債

Non-deductible expenses
Tax exempt revenue
Unrecognised tax losses
Unrecognised temporary differences
Utilisation of previously 
  unrecognised tax losses
Recognition of previously 
  unrecognised tax losses
Recognition of previously 
  unrecognised deferred tax liabilities
Effect of share of results of associates 應佔聯營公司業績之影響
Effect of share of results 
  of a joint venture
Others

應佔一家合營公司
  業績之影響
其他

122,785
3,894
(45,650)
373
(209)

13,602
1,521
(3,688)
1,671
984

(89,466)

(564)

(13,078)

(11,485)

16
20,003

1,658
(310)

16

43
73

—
(2,114)

43

81

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  PROFIT FOR THE YEAR

11.  年內溢利

O f   t h e   G r o u p ’ s   p r o f i t   f o r   t h e   y e a r   o f   H K $ 7 4 4 , 1 3 0 , 0 0 0 
(2013: HK$82,393,000),  a  profit  of  HK$653,527,000 (2013: 
HK$77,084,000) has been dealt with in the financial statements of 
the Company.

本 集 團 之 本 年 度 溢 利 為
744,130,000 港 元（二零一三年：
82,393,000港元）， 其 中 溢 利 為
653,527,000 港 元（二零一三年：
77,084,000港元）已於本公司財務
報表中處理。

12.  DIVIDEND

12.  股息

The directors of the Company do not recommend the payment of 
a dividend for the year (2013: nil).

本公司董事不建議派付本年度股息

（二零一三年：無）。

13.  EARNINGS PER SHARE

13.  每股盈利

The  calculation  of  the  basic  earnings  per  share  is  based  on 
profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the year 
of  2014  of  HK$744,130,000 (2013: HK$82,393,000)  and  the 
weighed  average  number  of  14,114,452,875 (2013 (adjusted): 
14,058,596,594)  ordinary  shares  in  issue  during  the  year.  The 
basic  earnings  per  share  amounts  for  2013  have  been  adjusted 
to reflect the share subdivisions and issue of bonus shares during 
the year.

The Company had no dilutive potential ordinary shares in 2014. In 
2013, there was an anti-dilutive effect after adjusting for the effect 
of  all  dilutive  potential  ordinary  shares.  Accordingly,  the  diluted 
earnings per share was same as the basic earnings per share for 
both years.

每股基本盈利按本公司權益持有人
應 佔 二 零 一 四 年 溢 利 744,130,000
港 元（二零一三年：82,393,000港
元）及本年度內已發行普通股之加
權 平 均 數 14,114,452,875 股（二零
一三年（經調整）：14,058,596,594
股）普通股計算。二零一三年之每股
基本盈利已作調整，以反映年內之
股份拆細及紅股發行。

於二零一四年，本公司並無潛在攤
薄普通股。於二零一三年，就所有
潛在攤薄普通股之影響作出調整後
產生反攤薄影響。因此，於兩個年
度內每股攤薄盈利與每股基本盈利
均相同。

82

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
14. 

INVESTMENT PROPERTIES

14.  投資物業

At fair value
At beginning of reporting period
Changes in fair value

以公平值計
於呈報期初
公平值變動

At end of reporting period

於呈報期結算日

本集團
The Group

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

11,100
550

11,650

10,800
300

11,100

The Group’s investment properties are situated in Hong Kong and 
are held under long term leases.

本集團的投資物業位於香港並按長
期租約持有。

At  the  end  of  the  reporting  period,  the  investment  properties 
were  revalued  by  Roma  Appraisals  Limited,  an  independent 
professional  qualified  valuer,  on  the  market  value  basis  using 
direct comparison approach.

於呈報期結算日，投資物業由獨立
專業合資格估值師羅馬國際評估有
限公司採用直接比較法按市值基準
重新估值。

83

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED2014 Annual Report  年度報告Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

15.  物業、廠房及設備

The Group

Reconciliation of carrying
  amount – year ended
  31 December 2013
At beginning of reporting period
Additions
Depreciation

賬面值對賬－截至二零一三年
  十二月三十一日
  止年度
於呈報期初
添置
折舊

At end of reporting period

於呈報期結算日

Reconciliation of carrying
  amount – year ended
  31 December 2014
At beginning of reporting period
Additions
Depreciation

賬面值對賬－截至二零一四年
  十二月三十一日
  止年度
於呈報期初
添置
折舊

At end of reporting period

於呈報期結算日

At 1 January 2014
Cost
Accumulated depreciation

於二零一四年一月一日
成本
累計折舊

At 31 December 2014
Cost
Accumulated depreciation

於二零一四年十二月三十一日
成本
累計折舊

本集團

Furniture 
and 
fixtures
傢俬及裝置
HK$’000
千港元

Leasehold 
improvements
租賃物業裝修
HK$’000
千港元

Office 
equipment
辦公室設備
HK$’000
千港元

Total
總計
HK$’000
千港元

837
—
(763)

74

74
257
(56)

275

4,445
(4,371)

74

4,702
(4,427)

275

227
—
(186)

41

41
—
(14)

27

1,613
(1,572)

41

1,613
(1,586)

27

171
299
(166)

304

304
264
(213)

355

5,378
(5,074)

304

5,642
(5,287)

355

1,235
299
(1,115)

419

419
521
(283)

657

11,436
(11,017)

419

11,957
(11,300)

657

84

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司2014 Annual Report  年度報告Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
16. 

INTEREST IN SUBSIDIARIES

16.  於附屬公司之權益

Unlisted shares, at cost
Impairment loss

非上市股份，以成本計
減值虧損

Due from subsidiaries
Impairment loss

應收附屬公司款項
減值虧損

Notes:

(a) 

The  amounts  due  from  subsidiaries  are  unsecured  and  have  no 
fixed repayment term. At 31 December 2014, except for the balance 
of  HK$380,838,000 (2013: HK$63,615,000)  due  from  a  subsidiary 
which bears interest at an effective interest rate of 5% per annum, 
the remaining balances are interest-free. The carrying amount of the 
balances due approximate their fair value.

(b)  R e v e r s a l   o f   i m p a i r m e n t   l o s s   o f   H K $ 6 3 5 , 5 1 0 , 0 0 0  (2013: 
HK$78,964,000)  has  been  recognised  for  interests  in  certain 
subsidiaries  because  these  subsidiaries  generated  a  profit  during 
the year and at the end of the reporting period have increased in 
their net assets value and accordingly, a portion of the impairment 
is reversed. At the end of the reporting period, interests in certain 
subsidiaries with an aggregate carrying amount (before deducting 
the impairment loss) of HK$811,701,000 (2013: HK$1,352,230,000) 
has  been  impaired  in  previous  years  because  these  subsidiaries 
had deficiency in assets and, accordingly, a portion of the interests 
was impaired.

Note
附註

(b)

(a)
(b)

The Company
本公司

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

677,002
(396,682)

677,002
(676,408)

280,320

594

3,280,578
(28,571)

1,548,454
(384,355)

3,252,007

1,164,099

3,532,327

1,164,693

附註：

(a)  應收附屬公司款項為無抵押及無
固定還款期。於二零一四年十二
月三十一日，除應收附屬公司結
餘 380,838,000 港 元（二零一三
年：63,615,000港元）按實際年利
率 5% 計息外，餘下款項均為免
息。到期結餘之賬面值與公平值
相若。

(b)  由於若干附屬公司於本年度內產
生溢利且於呈報期結算日資產淨
值增加，部分減值已撥回，故就
於該等附屬公司之權益確認減值
虧損撥回 635,510,000 港元（二零
一三年：78,964,000港元）。 於
呈報期結算日，由於若干附屬公
司資產不足，部分權益已減值，
故 就 該 等 附 屬 公 司（扣 除 減 值 虧
損前）賬面總值 811,701,000 港元
（二零一三年：1,352,230,000港
元）之權益已減值。

85

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED2014 Annual Report  年度報告Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. 

INTEREST IN SUBSIDIARIES (Cont’d)

16.  於附屬公司之權益（續）

In the opinion of the directors, a complete list of the particulars of 
all subsidiaries will be of excessive length and therefore the table 
below  lists  the  principal  subsidiaries  at  the  end  of  the  reporting 
period which materially affect the result or assets of the Group.

董事認為，由於完整呈列所有附屬
公司之詳情將會過於冗長，因此下
表僅呈列於呈報期結算日對本集團
業績或資產有重大影響之主要附屬
公司。

Name of subsidiaries

Place of incorporation/
type of legal entity

Particulars of 
issued and 
paid up ordinary 
share capital
已發行及繳足

附屬公司名稱

註冊成立地點╱法定實體類別 普通股本之詳情

China United International 
  Administrative 
  Services Limited
互聯國際服務有限公司

Hong Kong/

limited liability company

香港╱有限公司

Headman Investments
  Limited
錦思投資有限公司

Hong Kong/ 

limited liability company

香港╱有限公司

53,000 shares with
  no par value
53,000 股無面值之
  股份

1 share with no
  par value
1股無面值之
  股份

High Morale Investments 
  Limited
高志投資有限公司

British Virgin Islands/ 

limited liability company

英屬處女群島╱有限公司

1 share of US$1 each
1股每股面值
  1美元之股份

Nice Hill International 
  Limited

British Virgin Islands/ 

limited liability company

英屬處女群島╱有限公司

Pearl Decade Limited

British Virgin Islands/ 

limited liability company

英屬處女群島╱有限公司

35,256,411 shares 
  of US$1 each
35,256,411股每股
  面值1美元之
  股份

9,615,386 shares 
  of US$1 each
9,615,386股每股
  面值1美元之
  股份

Percentage of value
of issued share capital 
held by the Company Principal activities

本公司持有已發行
股本面值之百分比
Directly
直接
%

Indirectly
間接
%

主要業務

100

— Provision of 

  administrative 
  services
提供行政服務

—

100

Investment holding
投資控股

—

—

100

Investment holding
投資控股

100

Investment holding
投資控股

—

100

Trading of investments
買賣投資

86

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司2014 Annual Report  年度報告Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. 

INTEREST IN SUBSIDIARIES (Cont’d)

16.  於附屬公司之權益（續）

Name of subsidiaries

Place of incorporation/
type of legal entity

Particulars of 
issued and 
paid up ordinary 
share capital
已發行及繳足

附屬公司名稱

註冊成立地點╱法定實體類別 普通股本之詳情

Sun Willie Financing Limited
新威利財務有限公司

Hong Kong/

limited liability company

香港╱有限公司

Sunny Orient Investments 
  Limited

British Virgin Islands/

limited liability company

英屬處女群島╱有限公司

Synergy City Limited

British Virgin Islands/

Willie Resources 
Incorporated
威利資源企業公司

limited liability company

英屬處女群島╱有限公司

Cayman Islands/ 

limited liability company

開曼群島╱有限公司

75,000,001 shares 
  with no par value
75,000,001股
  無面值之股份

50,000 shares
  of US$1 each
50,000 股每股面值
  1美元之股份

1 share of US$1 each
1股每股面值
  1美元之股份

4,951,408,325 shares 
  of HK$0.10 each
4,951,408,325股
  每股面值
  0.10港元之股份

Percentage of value
of issued share capital 
held by the Company Principal activities

本公司持有已發行
股本面值之百分比
Directly
直接
%

Indirectly
間接
%

主要業務

—

100 Money lending

放債

100

— Investment holding

投資控股

—

100

Property investment
物業投資

100

— Investment holding

投資控股

All of the above subsidiaries operate principally in Hong Kong.

上述所有附屬公司均主要在香港經
營。

None of the subsidiaries  had  any  debt  securities outstanding at 
the end of the reporting period, or at any time during the year.

附屬公司於呈報期結算日或本年度
內任何時間概無已發行債務證券。

87

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED2014 Annual Report  年度報告Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. 

INTEREST IN ASSOCIATES

17.  於聯營公司之權益

本集團
The Group

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

995,771

—

995,771

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

16,392

19,393

35,785

BVHP

於二零一三年十二月三十一日，於
聯營公司之權益指本集團於 Bhutan 
V e n t u r e s   H o s p i t a l i t y   P r i v a t e 
Limited（「BVHP」）已發行普通股股
本 之 33.33% 權 益。 年 內， 本 集 團
已 向 BVHP 支 付 1,660,000 美 元（相
等於 12,932,000 港元）作為額外注
資，而本集團其後於 BVHP 之權益
維持不變。

民豐控股集團

於二零一四年五月，本集團簽訂協
議， 合 共 以 現 金 代 價 879,000,000
港元收購民豐控股有限公司（「民豐
控股」）及其附屬公司（統稱為「民豐
控股集團」）的 28.3% 股權。有關收
購已於二零一四年九月完成。

已 於 損 益 確 認 收 益213,473,000港
元，作為本集團在收購完成日期對於
民豐控股集團之可辨認資產及負債公
平值淨額超出投資成本之所佔份額。

本 集 團 完 成 收 購 民 豐 控 股 之 股 權
後，民豐控股向其他投資者發行若
干 新 股 份。 最 終， 本 集 團 於 民 豐
控 股 集 團 持 有 之 股 權 由 28.3% 攤
薄 至 民 豐 控 股 於 二 零 一 四 年 十 二
月 三 十 一 日 經 擴 大 已 發 行 股 本 之
25.7%，導致產生聯營公司股權變
動之虧損 21,247,000 港元。

Share of net assets
Deposits for subscription of
  shares in associates

應佔資產淨值
認購聯營公司股份
  之按金

BVHP

As at 31 December 2013, interest in an associate represents the 
Group’s interest in 33.33% of the issued ordinary share capital of 
Bhutan Ventures Hospitality Private Limited (“BVHP”). During the 
year, the Group made a payment of US$1,660,000 (equivalent to 
HK$12,932,000)  to  BVHP  as  additional  capital  contribution  and 
the Group’s interest in BVHP remained unchanged thereafter.

FCL Group

In May 2014, the Group signed an agreement to acquire 28.3% 
equity  interest  in  Freeman  Corporation  Limited  (“FCL”)  and 
its  subsidiaries  (together  “FCL  Group”),  at  an  aggregate  cash 
consideration of HK$879,000,000. The acquisition was completed 
in September 2014.

A gain of HK$213,473,000 has been recognised in profit or loss 
as the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets 
and liabilities of FCL Group exceeded the cost of investment at 
the date of completion of the acquisition.

After  the  Group’s  completion  of  acquisition  of  equity  interest  in 
FCL, FCL issued certain new shares to other investors. Eventually, 
the  Group’s  28.3%  equity  interest  in  FCL  Group  was  dilute  to 
25.7%  of  the  enlarged  issued  share  capital  of  FCL  as  at  31 
December 2014, resulting in a loss of HK$21,247,000 on changes 
in shareholding in associates.

88

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司2014 Annual Report  年度報告Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. 

INTEREST IN ASSOCIATES (Cont’d)

17.  於聯營公司之權益（續）

Details  of  the  principal  associates  at  the  end  of  the  reporting 
period are as follows:

於呈報期結算日主要聯營公司之詳
情如下：

Name of associates

聯營公司名稱

BVHP
Bhutan Ventures Hospitality 
  Private Limited

Place of 
incorporation/
type of 
legal entity

註冊成立地點╱
法定實體類別

Kingdom of Bhutan/ 

limited liability company

不丹王國╱有限公司

Particulars of 
issued and 
paid up ordinary 
share capital

已發行及繳足
普通股本之詳情

10,600,000 shares
  of Nu100 each
10,600,000股每股
  面值100努爾特
  魯姆之股份

Proportion of 
value of issued 
share capital 
indirectly held by 
the Company
本公司間接持有
已發行股本

Principal activities

值之比例 主要業務

33.3% Hotel investment
酒店投資

FCL Group
民豐控股集團
Freeman Corporation Limited
民豐控股有限公司

Cayman Islands/

limited liability company

開曼群島╱有限公司

Eastern Sunny Limited
東旭有限公司

Hong Kong/

limited liability company

Freeman Corporate
  Finance Limited
民豐企業融資有限公司

香港╱有限公司

Hong Kong/

limited liability company

香港╱有限公司

1,167,193,947 
  shares of 
  US$0.00000005 each
1,167,193,947股
  每股面值0.00000005
  美元之股份

2 shares with 
  no par value
2股無面值之股份

200,000 shares with 
  no par value
200,000 股無面值之
  股份

25.7% Investment holding
投資控股

25.7% Provision of

  management services
提供管理服務

25.7% Provision of corporate 

finance advisory services

提供企業融資顧問服務

89

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED2014 Annual Report  年度報告Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. 

INTEREST IN ASSOCIATES (Cont’d)

17.  於聯營公司之權益（續）

Name of associates

聯營公司名稱

Freeman Securities Limited
民豐證券有限公司

Place of 
incorporation/
type of 
legal entity

註冊成立地點╱
法定實體類別

Particulars of 
issued and 
paid up ordinary 
share capital

已發行及繳足
普通股本之詳情

Hong Kong/

limited liability company

香港╱有限公司

408,000,000 shares 
  with no par value
408,000,000 股無面值
  之股份

Hanson Finance Limited

Hong Kong/

Harvest Finance Services 
  Limited

limited liability company

香港╱有限公司

Hong Kong/

limited liability company

香港╱有限公司

2 shares with 
  no par value
2股無面值之股份

200,000 shares 
  with no par value
200,000 股無面值之股份

Smart Jump Corporation

British Virgin Islands/ 

limited liability company

英屬處女群島╱有限公司

1 share of US$1 each
1股每股面值1美元
  之股份

Proportion of 
value of issued 
share capital 
indirectly held by 
the Company
本公司間接持有
已發行股本

Principal activities

值之比例 主要業務

25.7% Securities brokerage, 

  placing, underwriting, 
  margin financing and 
trading of securities
證券經紀、配售、包銷、
  保證金融資及證券買賣

25.7% Provision of finance
提供融資

25.7% Provision of insurance 
  brokerage services, 

financial planning and 
related services
提供保險經紀服務、
  財務規劃及相關服務

25.7% Trading in securities
證券買賣

FCL Group operates principally in Hong Kong and BVHP operates 
principally in Kingdom of Bhutan.

民豐控股集團主要於香港營運，而
BVHP 主要於不丹王國營運。

All of the above associates are accounted for using equity method 
in these consolidated financial statements.

上述所有聯營公司按權益法於本綜
合財務報表入賬。

90

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司2014 Annual Report  年度報告Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. 

INTEREST IN ASSOCIATES (Cont’d)

17.  於聯營公司之權益（續）

(a)  Fair value of investments

(a)  投資之公平值

At  the  end  of  the  reporting  period,  all  of  the  Group’s 
associates are private companies and there was no quoted 
market price available for the investments.

於呈報期結算日，本集團之所
有聯營公司均為私人公司且有
關投資並無市場報價。

(b)  Financial information of associates

(b)  聯營公司之財務資料

Summarised  financial  information  of  each  of  the  material 
associates of the Group is set out below, which represents 
amounts  shown  in  the  associates’  financial  statements 
prepared  in  accordance  with  HKFRSs  and  adjusted  by 
the  Group  for  equity  accounting  purposes  including  any 
differences in accounting policies and fair value adjustments.

At 31 December 2014

於二零一四年十二月三十一日

Gross amounts
Non-current assets
Current assets
Current liabilities

Equity

總額
非流動資產
流動資產
流動負債

權益

本集團各重大聯營公司之財務
資料概要載列於下文，乃指聯
營公司根據香港財務報告準則
編製之財務報表所列金額，並
經本集團以權益會計法作出調
整包括會計政策差異及公平值
調整。

FCL Group
民豐控股集團
HK$’ 000
千港元

BVHP
HK$’ 000
千港元

3,917,233
63,186
(269,925)

109,981
16,554
(13)

3,710,494

126,522

Group’s ownership interest

本集團之擁有權權益

25.7%

33.3%

Group’s share of 
  equity of associates

本集團應佔聯營
  公司權益

953,597

42,174

91

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED2014 Annual Report  年度報告Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. 

INTEREST IN ASSOCIATES (Cont’d)

17.  於聯營公司之權益（續）

(b)  Financial information of associates (Cont’d)

(b)  聯營公司之財務資料（續）

At 31 December 2013

於二零一三年十二月三十一日

Gross amounts
Non-current assets
Current assets
Current liabilities

Equity

總額
非流動資產
流動資產
流動負債

權益

Calls on share capital not yet issued, 
  net of exchange difference

認購尚未發行股本，
  扣除滙兌差額

Group’s ownership interest

本集團之擁有權權益

Group’s share of equity of associate

本集團應佔聯營公司權益

BVHP
HK$’ 000
千港元

29,292
37,409
(10)

66,691

17,510

33.3%

16,392

92

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司2014 Annual Report  年度報告Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. 

INTEREST IN ASSOCIATES (Cont’d)

17.  於聯營公司之權益（續）

(b)  Financial information of associates (Cont’d)

(b)  聯營公司之財務資料（續）

Post-acquisition results 
  – year/period ended 
  31 December 2014

收購後業績－截至
  二零一四年十二月三十一日
  止年度╱期間

Gross amounts
Revenue

總額
收入

本年度╱期間內虧損
Loss for the year/period
Other comprehensive income (loss) 其他全面收入（虧損）

Total comprehensive loss

全面虧損總額

Group’s ownership interest

本集團之擁有權權益

Group’s share of results 
  of associates

本集團應佔
  聯營公司業績

Group’s share of other 
  comprehensive income (loss) 
  of associates

本集團應佔聯營公司
  其他全面收入
  （虧損）

Dividend received from associates 自聯營公司收取之股息

FCL Group
民豐控股集團
HK$’ 000
千港元

BVHP
HK$’ 000
千港元

(86,938)

(469,494)
11,793

(457,701)

25.7%

—

(1,714)
(17,918)

(19,632)

33.3%

(120,660)

(571)

3,031

—

(5,972)

—

93

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED2014 Annual Report  年度報告Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. 

INTEREST IN ASSOCIATES (Cont’d)

17.  於聯營公司之權益（續）

(b)  Financial information of associates (Cont’d)

(b)  聯營公司之財務資料（續）

Post-acquisition results –
  year ended 31 December 2013
Gross amounts
Revenue

收購後業績－截至
  二零一三年十二月三十一日止年度
總額
收入

Loss for the year
Other comprehensive loss

Total comprehensive loss

本年度內虧損
其他全面虧損

全面虧損總額

Group’s ownership interest

本集團之擁有權權益

Group’s share of results of associate

本集團應佔聯營公司業績

Group’s share of other comprehensive loss 
  of associate

本集團應佔聯營公司
  其他全面虧損

Dividend received from associate

自聯營公司收取之股息

BVHP
HK$’ 000
千港元

—

(1,330)
(7,755)

(9,085)

33.3%

(443)

(2,585)

—

94

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司2014 Annual Report  年度報告Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. 

INTEREST IN A JOINT VENTURE

18.  於一家合營公司之權益

Unlisted shares
Share of net assets

非上市股份
分佔淨資產

As  mentioned  in  note  19  to  these  consolidated  financial 
statements, upon completion of the JV Contribution (as hereinafter 
defined), the Group held 92,687,861 shares, representing 34.7% 
equity interest in Freewill Holdings Limited (“Freewill”), a company 
incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands with limited 
liability  and  operates  principally  in  Hong  Kong  which  has  been 
classified as  interest  in  a  joint  venture  as Freewill is an entity in 
which the Group has a long term equity interest and of which the 
Group shares control with another party when certain important 
decisions  of  Freewill,  under  contractual  arrangement,  require 
unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. The purpose of 
Freewill’s business is to hold shares in HEC Capital Limited (“HEC”) 
for investment holding purpose. The joint venture is accounted for 
using equity method in these consolidated financial statements.

(a)  Fair value of investments

At the end of the reporting period, the Group’s joint venture 
is a private company and there was no quote market price 
available for the investment.

本集團
The Group

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

559,945

—

如本綜合財務報表附註 19 所述，合
營公司注資（定義見下文）完成後，
本集團於 Freewill Holdings Limited
（「Freewill」）（一家於馬紹爾群島共
和 國 註 冊 成 立 之 有 限 公 司， 主 要
於香港營運）持有 92,687,861 股股
份， 佔 其 34.7% 股 權， 因 Freewill
為本集團擁有長期股權之實體，且
根 據 合 約 安 排， 本 集 團 為 Freewill
作出若干重要決定時須與分享控制
權另一方達成一致同意，故被分類
為於一家合營公司之權益。Freewill
之業務目的為持有中南融資有限公
司（「中南融資」）之股份作投資控股
用途。合營公司按權益法於本綜合
財務報表入賬。

(a)  投資之公平值

於呈報期結算日，本集團之合
營公司均為私人公司且有關投
資並無市場報價。

(b)  Financial information of joint venture

(b)  合營公司之財務資料

Summarised  financial  information  of  Freewill  since  the 
acquisition  is  set  out  below,  which  represents  amounts 
shown  in  the  joint  venture’s  financial  statements  prepared 
in accordance with HKFRSs and adjusted by the Group for 
equity  accounting  purposes  including  any  differences  in 
accounting policies and fair value adjustments.

Freewill 自收購以來之財務資
料概要載列於下文，乃指合營
公司根據香港財務報告準則編
製之財務報表所列金額，並經
本集團以權益會計法作出調整
包括會計政策差異及公平值調
整。

95

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED2014 Annual Report  年度報告Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. 

INTEREST IN A JOINT VENTURE (Cont’d)

18.  於一家合營公司之權益（續）

(b)  Financial information of joint venture (Cont’d)

(b)  合營公司之財務資料（續）

At 31 December 2014

於二零一四年十二月三十一日

Gross amount
Non-current assets
Current liabilities

Equity

總額
非流動資產
流動負債

權益

Group’s ownership interests

本集團之擁有權權益

Group’s share of equity of joint venture

本集團應佔合營公司權益

HK$’ 000
千港元

1,613,712
(38)

1,613,674

34.7%

559,945

Post-acquisition results –
  period ended 31 December 2014

收購後業績－截至
  二零一四年十二月三十一日止期間

HK$’ 000
千港元

Gross amount
Revenue

Loss for the period
Other comprehensive loss

Total comprehensive loss

總額
收入

本期間內虧損
其他全面虧損

全面虧損總額

Group’s ownership interest

本集團之擁有權權益

Group’s share of results of joint venture

本集團應佔合營公司業績

Group’s share of other comprehensive

loss of joint venture

本集團應佔合營公司
  其他全面虧損

Dividends received from a joint venture

自一家合營公司收取之股息

—

(28,981)
(3,902)

(32,883)

34.7%

(10,056)

(1,354)

—

The above financial information is prepared using the same 
accounting policies as those adopted by the Group.

上述財務資料乃採用與本集團所採
納相同之會計政策編製。

96

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司2014 Annual Report  年度報告Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19.  AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS

19.  可供出售財務資產

The Group
本集團

The Company
本公司

2013

2014

2013
二零一四年 二零一三年 二零一四年 二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

2014

Note
附註

Equity securities, listed

in Hong Kong, at fair value

於香港上市之股本
  證券，以公平值計

Unlisted investments, at cost 非上市投資，

(a)

28,126

13,673

28,126

13,673

Impairment loss

  以成本計
減值虧損

(b)&(c)
(d)

22,000
(13,231)

594,514
(15,967)

8,769

578,547

—
—

—

Club membership, at cost
Impairment loss

會所會籍，以成本計
減值虧損

(c)
(d)

13,920
(1,520)

13,920
(1,520)

12,920
(1,520)

572,514
(2,736)

569,778

12,920
(1,520)

按以下各項分析：
非流動
流動

Analysed as:
Non-current
Current

Notes:

(a) 

The  amounts  represent  the  Company’s  interest  in  a  company 
whose shares are listed on the mainboard of the Stock Exchange. 
The board of directors decided to dispose of this investment within 
the  following  twelve  months;  therefore,  the  investments  were 
classified  as  current  assets.  During  the  year,  a  fair  value  gain  of 
HK$14,453,000 (2013: HK$4,844,000)  in  respect  of  these  shares 
held  by  the  Company  was  recognised  in  the  available-for-sale 
financial assets revaluation reserve.

At  the  end  of  the  reporting  period,  listed  equity  securities 
with  an  aggregate  carrying  amount  of  HK$28,126,000 (2013: 
HK$13,673,000) were pledged to a broker to secure certain margin 
financing  amounting  to  HK$12,657,000 (2013: HK$6,836,000) 
granted to the Group, of which none (2013: none) was utilised at the 
end of the reporting period.

12,400

12,400

11,400

11,400

49,295

604,620

39,526

594,851

21,169
28,126

590,947
13,673

11,400
28,126

581,178
13,673

49,295

604,620

39,526

594,851

附註：

(a)  該數額指本公司於一家股份已於
聯交所主板上市之公司擁有之權
益。董事會決定於未來十二個月
內出售此項投資。因此，有關投
資獲分類為流動資產。於本年度
內，本公司持有之該等股份之公
平 值 收 益 14,453,000 港 元（二 零
一三年：4,844,000 港元）確認為
可供出售財務資產重估儲備。

於 呈 報 期 結 算 日， 賬 面 總 值 為
28,126,000 港 元（二零一三年：
13,673,000港元）之上市股本證券
抵押予一家證券經紀行以取得本
集團獲授金額為 12,657,000 港元
（二零一三年：6,836,000港元）之
若干孖展融資，於呈報期結算日
並無（二零一三年：無）動用該款
項。

97

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19.  AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS (Cont’d)

19.  可供出售財務資產（續）

Notes: (Cont’d)

(b)  As  at  31  December  2013,  the  Company  held  10.38%  equity 
interest in HEC amounting to HK$572,514,000 (before impairment 
loss).  HEC  was  incorporated  in  the  Cayman  Islands.  HEC  and  its 
subsidiaries are principally engaged in investment holding, property 
investment,  commodities  dealer,  money  lending,  nominees, 
securities  brokerage  and  financial  services,  corporate  finance 
advising services, asset management investment advising and fund 
management.

In  June  2014,  the  Group  executed  a  joint  venture  agreement 
with a joint venture partner, pursuant to which the Group and the 
joint  venture  partner  agreed  to  contribute  all  of  their  HEC  shares 
in  exchange  for  the  same  respective  ordinary  shares  of  a  joint 
venture  company,  Freewill,  a  special  purpose  vehicle  formed  to 
hold those HEC shares (“JV Contribution”). Upon completion of the 
JV  Contribution  in  late  June  2014,  the  Company’s  equity  interest 
in  HEC  (i.e.  92,687,861  HEC  shares  representing  approximately 
10.38%  of  HEC’s  issued  share  capital  as  at  31  December  2013 
which  was  reduced  to  approximately  9.96%  immediately  before 
the completion of the JV Contribution) was exchanged into 34.7% 
equity interest in Freewill resulting in a gain on derecognition of the 
Group’s  investment  in  HEC  of  HK$1,577,000  recognised  in  profit 
or loss. The Group’s equity interest in Freewill has been classified 
as  interest  in  a  joint  venture  as  mentioned  in  note  18  to  these 
consolidated financial statements.

The  remaining  balance  represents  the  Group’s  interests  in  21% 
(2013: 21%) of  the  nominal  value  of  the  issued  non-voting, 
redeemable participating share capital of VMS Private Investment 
Partners  VI  Limited  (“VMS”).  VMS  was  incorporated  in  the  British 
Virgin Islands and is engaged in the trading of investment. VMS is 
not  treated  as  an  associate  because  the  Group  did  not  have  the 
right to exercise significant influence over VMS.

附註：（續）

(b)  於二零一三年十二月三十一日，
本 公 司 持 有 HEC 10.38% 之 股
權，為數 572,514,000 港元（計算
減 值 虧 損 前 ）。HEC 於 開 曼 群 島
註冊成立。HEC 及其附屬公司主
要從事投資控股、物業投資、商
品交易、放債、代理人、證券經
紀及金融服務、企業財務顧問服
務、資產管理投資顧問及資金管
理。

於二零一四年六月，本集團與一
家合營公司夥伴簽立合營協議，
據此本集團與合營公司夥伴同意
以彼等全部中南融資股份分別換
取 相 同 數 目 之 合 營 公 司 Freewill
（一家為持有該等中南融資股份而
特意成立之公司）股份（「合營公司
注資」）。於二零一四年六月底完
成合營公司注資後，本公司於中
南 融 資 的 股 權（即 92,687,861 股
中南融資股份，佔於二零一三年
十二月三十一日中南融資已發行
股 本 約 10.38%， 並 於 緊 按 合 營
公司注資完成前減至約 9.96%）已
交 換 為 Freewill 之 34.7% 股 權，
使終止確認本集團於中南融資的
投 資 所 得 收 益 1,577,000 港 元 於
損益確認。如本綜合財務報表附
註 18 所 述， 本 集 團 於 Freewill 之
股權獲分類為於一家合營公司之權
益。

餘額指本集團所持有 VMS Private 
Investment  Partners  VI  Limited
（「VMS」）之已發行無投票權、可
贖 回 參 與 股 本 面 值 的 21%（二零
一三年：21%）權 益。VMS 於 英
屬處女群島註冊成立並從事買賣
投資。由於本集團無權對 VMS 施
加重大影響力，故 VMS 不視為聯
營公司。

(c) 

The directors are of the opinion that as the variability in the range 
of  reasonable  fair  value  estimates  for  the  club  membership  and 
unlisted investments is significant and the probability of the various 
estimates  within  the  range  cannot  be  reasonably  assessed  and 
used in estimating fair value, these investments are stated at cost 
less any impairment loss.

(c)  董事認為由於會所會籍及非上市
投資的估計合理公平值範圍波動
重大，且該範圍內各項估值可能
無法合理評估而無法用於評估公
平值，故該等投資以成本減任何
減值虧損列賬。

98

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
19.  AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS (Cont’d)

19.  可供出售財務資產（續）

Notes: (Cont’d)

附註：（續）

(d)  Movement in the provision for impairment loss is as follows:

(d)  減值虧損撥備變動如下：

The Group
本集團

The Company
本公司

2014

2013

2013
二零一四年 二零一三年 二零一四年 二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

2014

At beginning of reporting period 於呈報期初
Written off upon derecognition 終止確認後撇銷

17,487
(2,736)

17,487
—

4,256
(2,736)

At end of reporting period

於呈報期結算日

14,751

17,487

1,520

4,256
—

4,256

20.  OTHER INVESTMENTS

20.  其他投資

At cost
Accumulated impairment loss

以成本計
累計減值虧損

The Group
本集團

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

5,900
(1,320)

4,580

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

5,900
(1,320)

4,580

Other investments represent artwork.

其他投資指藝術品。

99

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21.  FINANCIAL  ASSETS  AT  FAIR  VALUE  THROUGH  PROFIT 

21.  按公平值計入損益之財務資產

OR LOSS

Analysis of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:

按公平值計入損益之財務資產之分
析如下：

The Group
本集團

The Company
本公司

2014

2013

2013
二零一四年 二零一三年 二零一四年 二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

2014

Note
附註

403,200
—
45,821

942,938
10,404
29,536

56,253
—
—

27,345
—
—

(a)

449,021

982,878

56,253

27,345

21,578
—

(b)

21,578

—
5,320

5,320

—
—

—

—
—

—

470,599

988,198

56,253

27,345

Investments held

for trading
Equity securities
  – Listed in Hong Kong
  – Listed overseas
Bonds - listed overseas 債券－於海外上市

持作買賣
  投資
股本證券
  －於香港上市
  －於海外上市

Investments designated
  as at fair value
  upon initial recognition
Unlisted derivative

financial instruments

於首次確認時指定
  為按公平值列賬
  之投資
非上市衍生
  金融工具

Unlisted convertible bonds 非上市可換股債券

100

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21.  FINANCIAL  ASSETS  AT  FAIR  VALUE  THROUGH  PROFIT 

21.  按 公 平 值 計 入 損 益 之 財 務 資 產

OR LOSS (Cont’d)

Notes:

（續）

附註：

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

The fair values of listed equity securities and listed bonds are based 
on quoted market prices in active markets.

(a)  上市股本證券及上市債券之公平
值乃按於活躍市場所報市價計算。

The  unlisted  investments  were  designated  as  at  fair  value  upon 
initial  recognition  as  they  are  managed  and  evaluated  on  a 
fair  value  basis.  The  fair  values  of  unlisted  derivative  financial 
instruments  are  estimated  using  the  combination  of  observable 
transaction  prices  and  independent  pricing  services  as  reported 
and  provided  by  certain  financial  institutions.  The  fair  values  of 
unlisted convertible bonds are estimated using valuation technique 
based  on  assumptions  and  estimates  including  but  not  limited  to 
average stock price, risk-free rate, expected volatility and expected 
dividend yield of similar comparables by an independent qualified 
professional valuer, Roma Appraisals Limited.

At the end of the reporting period, the Group’s financial assets at 
fair value through profit or loss (2013: financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss and bank balance) with a total carrying amount 
of  HK$356,139,000 (2013: HK$988,198,000 and HK$9,483,000 
respectively) were  pledged  to  certain  financial  institutions  and 
brokers  to  secure  certain  margin  financing  and  loan  facilities 
amounting to HK$153,353,000 (2013: HK$476,266,000) granted to 
the Group, of which none (2013: none) was utilised at the end of the 
reporting period.

(b)  由於非上市投資按公平值基準管
理及評估，故於首次確認時將其
指定為按公平值計量。非上市衍
生財務工具之公平值乃結合採用
若干金融機構所呈報之可觀察交
易 價 格 及 獨 立 定 價 服 務 進 行 估
計。非上市可換股債券之公平值
乃採用估值法，由獨立專業估值
師羅馬國際評估有限公司依據假
設及估計（其中包括但不限於用類
似可比較對象之平均股價、無風
險利率、預期波幅及預期股息率）
作出計算。

(c)  於呈報期結算日，本集團將總面
值 356,139,000 港 元（二 零 一 三
年： 分 別 為 988,198,000 港 元 及
9,483,000 港元）之按公平值計入
損益之財務資產（二零一三年：按
公平值計入損益之財務資產及銀
行結餘）抵押予若干金融機構及
證券經紀行以取得本集團獲授金
額為 153,353,000 港元（二零一三
年：476,266,000港元）之若干孖
展融資及貸款融資，於呈報期結
算 日 並 無 動 用 該 款 項（二零一三

年：無）。

101

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告22.  LOANS RECEIVABLE

22.  應收貸款

Loans granted to borrowers are repayable according to repayment 
schedules. The balance comprises loans receivable from:

授予借款人之貸款按還款時間表償
還。結餘包括以下應收貸款：

Third parties
Allowance for doubtful debts

第三方
呆賬撥備

Short term loans, net of allowance 短期貸款，扣除撥備
Instalment loans, net of allowance 分期貸款，扣除撥備

Notes:

(a) 

At  the  end  of  the  reporting  period,  loans  receivable  (i)  are 
unsecured;  (ii)  carry  variable  and  fixed  interest  rates  and  have 
effective interest rates ranging from around 5% to 24% per annum 
(2013: from around 5% to 24% per annum);  (iii)  include  balances 
of  HK$4,310,000 (2013: HK$3,616,000)  which  are  past  due  more 
than  one  year (2013: within one year);  and  (iv)  include  balances 
of  HK$320,377,000 (2013: HK$121,907,000) which  are  within  the 
respective maturity dates.

Note
附註

(a)
(b)

The Group
本集團

2014
 二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
 二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

324,687
(4,314)

125,523
(5,304)

320,373

120,219

320,070
303

116,053
4,166

320,373

120,219

附註：

(a)  於呈報期結算日，應收貸款 (i) 無
抵 押；(ii) 按 浮 動 利 率 及 固 定 利
率計息，實際年利率介乎約 5 厘
至 24 厘（二零一三年：年利率介
乎約5厘至24厘）；(iii) 包 括 逾 期
超 過 一 年（二零一三年：一年以
內）的 結 餘 4,310,000 港 元（二零
一三年：3,616,000港元）；及 (iv)
包括於各自償還到期日內的結餘
320,377,000 港元（二零一三年：
121,907,000港元）。

102

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22.  LOANS RECEIVABLE (Cont’d)

Notes: (Cont’d)

22.  應收貸款（續）

附註：（續）

(b)  Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts is as follows:

(b)  呆賬撥備變動如下：

At beginning of reporting period
Increase in allowance
Reversal of allowance

於呈報期初
撥備增加
撥備撥回

At end of reporting period

於呈報期結算日

The directors assessed the collectability of loans receivable at the 
end of the reporting period individually with reference to borrowers’ 
past collection history and current creditworthiness. HK$4,314,000 
(2013: HK$5,304,000) in respect of two (2013: two) borrowers were 
determined  to  be  impaired  as  a  result  of  the  assessment.  In  the 
directors’  opinion,  there  was  no  indication  of  deterioration  in  the 
collectability  of  the  remaining  amount  of  HK$320,373,000 (2013: 
HK$120,219,000) and thus no additional allowance was considered 
necessary.

No  loans  receivable  was  past  due  but  not  impaired  as  at  31 
December  2014  and  2013.  Loans  receivable  that  were  neither 
past  due  nor  impaired  related  to  a  wide  range  of  borrowers  for 
whom there was no history of default.

The  creation  and  release  of  allowance  for  doubtful  debts  have 
been  included  in  the  consolidated  statement  of  comprehensive 
income.

The Group
本集團

2014
 二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

5,304
390
(1,380)

4,314

2013
 二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

12,792
3,616
(11,104)

5,304

董事於呈報期結算日經參考借款
人之過往還款記錄及目前信譽，
個 別 評 估 應 收 貸 款 之 可 收 回 狀
況。依照評估結果，本公司決定
為兩位（二零一三年：兩位）借款
人 之 貸 款 共 4,314,000 港 元（二
零一三年：5,304,000港元）作出
減值撥備。董事認為，由於餘額
320,373,000 港元（二零一三年：
120,219,000港元）之可收回狀況
並無惡化跡象，因此毋須考慮計
提額外撥備。

於二零一四年及二零一三年十二月
三十一日，並無已逾期但未作出減
值的應收貸款。既未逾期亦無減值
之 應 收 貸 款 涉 及 不 同 層 面 的 借 款
人，彼等均無拖欠記錄。

產生及解除呆賬撥備已計入綜合全
面收益表。

103

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23.  OTHER RECEIVABLES

23.  其他應收款項

The Group
本集團

The Company
本公司

2013

2014

2013
二零一四年 二零一三年 二零一四年 二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

2014

Deposits and prepayments 按金及預付款
其他應收款項
Other receivables

799
1,795

2,594

606
2,339

2,945

185
—

185

202
105

307

24.  BANK BALANCES AND CASH

24.  銀行結餘及現金

Certain cash at bank earns interest at floating rate based on daily 
bank deposit rates.

存於銀行的若干現金按每日銀行存
款利率計算的浮息賺取利息。

25.  OTHER PAYABLES

25.  其他應付款項

The Group
本集團

The Company
本公司

2013

2014

2013
二零一四年 二零一三年 二零一四年 二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

2014

Other payables
Deposits received
Due to subsidiaries (note)

其他應付款項
已收存款
應付附屬公司款項（附註）

2,640
6,697
—

2,617
2,284
—
—
— 1,129,639

9,337

2,617

1,131,923

604
—
367

971

Note: The  amounts  due  are  unsecured,  interest-free  and  have  no  fixed 

附註：  到期款項為無抵押、不計息且並無

payment term.

固定還款期。

104

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26. 

INTEREST-BEARING BORROWING

26.  計息借款

The Group
本集團

2014
 二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
 二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

Secured bank loan repayable
  within one year or on demand

須於一年內或按要求償還的
  有抵押銀行貸款

4,183

4,362

As at 31 December 2014, the bank loan carrying floating interest 
rate of 2.5% per annum above one month HIBOR and containing 
a repayment on demand clause was denominated in Hong Kong 
dollars  and  secured  by  the  Group’s  investment  properties  with 
carrying value of HK$11,650,000 (2013: HK$11,100,000).

The  maturity  terms  of  the  bank  loan  based  on  repayment 
schedule pursuant to the loan facility letter (ignoring the effect of 
any repayment on demand clause) are as follows:

Within one year
In the second to fifth years
Over five years

一年內
第二年至第五年
五年以上

於二零一四年十二月三十一日，按
一個月香港銀行同業拆息加 2.5 厘
浮動年利率計息且包含按要求償還
條款的銀行貸款以港元計值，並由
本 集 團 賬 面 值 為 11,650,000 港 元
（二零一三年：11,100,000港元）的

投資物業作抵押。

根據貸款融資函件（不計及任何按要
求還款條款之影響）按還款安排之銀
行貸款屆滿期限如下：

The Group
本集團

2014
 二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
 二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

184
786
3,213

4,183

179
766
3,417

4,362

105

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27.  UNSECURED BONDS

27.  無抵押債券

In  May  2014,  the  Company  issued  an  unsecured  bond  with  the 
principal amount of HK$10,000,000 to an independent third party 
called Mr. Xu Yong with interest bearing at 5% per annum payable 
annually  in  arrears  for  the  Group’s  general  working  capital.  The 
bond is repayable in May 2021.

In November 2014, the Company issued an unsecured bond with 
the  principal  amount  of  HK$10,000,000  to  an  independent  third 
party called Ms. Sun Dan with interest bearing at 5% per annum 
payable  annually  in  arrears  for  the  Group’s  general  working 
capital. The bond is repayable in November 2021.

於二零一四年五月，本公司向一名
獨立第三方許勇先生發行本金額為
10,000,000 港 元 之 無 抵 押 債 券，
按年利率 5 厘計息，須在每週年期
末支付，債券所得款項作為本集團
之一般營運資金。該債券須於二零
二一年五月償還。

於二零一四年十一月，本公司向一
名獨立第三方孫丹女士發行本金額
為 10,000,000 港元之無抵押債券，
按年利率 5 厘計息，須在每週年期
末支付，債券所得款項作為本集團
之一般營運資金。該債券須於二零
二一年十一月償還。

28.  DEFERRED TAXATION

28.  遞延稅項

The  movement  for  the  year  in  the  Group’s  net  deferred  tax 
position is as follows:

本年度內本集團遞延稅項淨額水平
之變動如下：

Recognised net deferred tax liabilities 己確認遞延稅項負債淨額
At beginning of the reporting period
Charged to profit or loss

於呈報期初
自損益扣除

At end of reporting period

於呈報期結算日

The Group
本集團

2014
 二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
 二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

43
16

59

—
43

43

106

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28.  DEFERRED TAXATION (Cont’d)

28.  遞延稅項（續）

Recognised net deferred tax liabilities at the end of the reporting 
period represent the following:

於呈報期結算日之己確認遞延稅項
負債淨額如下：

The Group
本集團

Assets
資產

Liabilities
負債

2014

2013

2013
二零一四年 二零一三年 二零一四年 二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

HK$’ 000
千港元

2014

—

—

(124)

(96)

—
24,629

—
11,538

(24,564)
—

(24,688)
24,629

(11,485)
—

(11,581)
11,538

Depreciation allowances
Net fair value gain
  on investments
Tax losses

備抵折舊
投資之公平值
  收益淨額
稅項虧損

Deferred tax asset (liabilities) 遞延稅項資產（負債）
Offsetting

抵銷

24,629
(24,629)

11,538
(11,538)

Net deferred tax liabilities

遞延稅項負債淨額

—

—

(59)

(43)

Unrecognised deferred

tax assets arising from:
  Deductible temporary differences

    Tax losses

未確認的遞延稅項
  資產來自：

  可扣稅暫時性差額

    稅項虧損

The Group
本集團

2014
 二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
 二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

4,705
889,573

5,972
1,508,783

At end of reporting period

於呈報期結算日

894,278

1,514,755

Neither  the  tax  losses  nor  the  deductible  temporary  differences 
expire  under  current  tax  legislation.  Deferred  tax  assets  have 
not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not 
probable that future taxable profit will be available against which 
the Group can utilise the benefits therefrom.

根據現行稅法，稅項虧損及可扣稅
暫時性差額均不會到期。由於本集
團不大可能利用未來應課稅溢利抵
銷從中可用的利益，因此並無就該
等項目確認遞延稅項資產。

107

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29.  SHARE CAPITAL

29.  股本

Issued and fully paid
  ordinary shares:
1 January 2013
Placing of shares
Issue of shares under
  share option scheme

已發行及繳足普通股：

二零一三年一月一日
配售股份
根據購股權計劃
  發行股份

Number of
ordinary
shares in issue
已發行
普通股數目

Note
附註

125,461,804
16,728,240

8,364,120

Share
capital

股本
HK$’ 000
千港元

1,254
167

84

At 31 December 2013
  and 1 January 2014

於二零一三年十二月三十一日
  及二零一四年一月一日

150,554,164

1,505

廢除股份面值時
Transfer from share
  由股份
  premium upon abolition
  溢價轉撥
  of nominal value of shares
第一次股份拆細
First share subdivision
第一次發行紅股
First issue of bonus shares
第二次股份拆細
Second share subdivision
Second issue of bonus shares 第二次發行紅股

30 (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

—
602,216,656
188,192,705
8,468,671,725
4,704,817,625

2,398,867
—
—
—
—

At 31 December 2014

於二零一四年十二月三十一日

14,114,452,875

2,400,372

108

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29.  SHARE CAPITAL (Cont’d)

Notes:

29.  股本（續）

附註：

(a) 

As  at  31  December  2013,  2,000,000,000  ordinary  shares,  with 
nominal value of HK$0.01 each, were authorised for issue. Under 
the new Hong Kong Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622), which has 
been  effective  since  3  March  2014,  the  concept  of  “authorised 
share capital” and “nominal value” no longer exist. These changes 
do not have any impact on the number of shares in issue.

(b)  Pursuant  to  an  ordinary  resolution  passed  by  the  shareholders 
at  the  extraordinary  general  meeting  of  the  Company  held  on  12 
March  2014,  each  existing  issued  share  of  the  Company  was 
subdivided into five subdivided shares. Immediately upon the share 
subdivision became effective on 13 March 2014, the Company had 
752,770,820 shares in issue and fully paid.

(c)  On 17 September 2014, the Company issued bonus shares on the 
basis  of  one  bonus  share  for  every  four  existing  shares  with  no 
consideration payable by the qualifying shareholders. On the record 
date on 17 September 2014, there were 752,770,820 shares issued 
and therefore, 188,192,705 bonus shares were issued as fully-paid 
shares.

(d)  Pursuant  to  an  ordinary  resolution  passed  by  the  shareholders  at 
the  general  meeting  of  the  Company  held  on  3  December  2014, 
each existing issued share of the Company was subdivided into ten 
subdivided shares. Immediately upon the share subdivision became 
effective  on  4  December  2014,  the  Company  had  9,409,635,250 
shares in issue and fully paid.

(e)  On 17 December 2014, the Company issued bonus shares on the 
basis  of  one  bonus  share  for  every  two  existing  shares  with  no 
consideration payable by the qualifying shareholders. On the record 
date  on  17  December  2014,  there  were  9,409,635,250  shares 
issued and therefore, 4,704,817,625 bonus shares were issued as 
fully-paid shares.

(a)  於二零一三年十二月三十一日，
2,000,000,000 股 每 股 面 值 0.01
港元之普通股獲授權發行。根據
自二零一四年三月三日起生效之
新香港公司條例（第 622 章），「法
定股本」及「面值」之概念不再存
在。該等變動對已發行股份之數
目並無任何影響。

(b)  根據股東於本公司於二零一四年
三月十二日舉行之股東特別大會
上通過之一項普通決議案，本公
司每股現有已發行股份拆細為五
股拆細股份。緊隨股份拆細於二
零一四年三月十三日生效後，本
公 司 擁 有 752,770,820 股 已 發 行
及繳足股份。

(c)  於二零一四年九月十七日，本公
司按每四股現有股份獲送一股紅
股之基準派送紅股，合資格股東
毋須支付任何代價。於記錄日期
二 零 一 四 年 九 月 十 七 日， 現 有
已 發 行 股 份 752,770,820 股， 因
此，188,192,705 股 紅 股 作 為 繳
足股份派送。

(d)  根據股東於本公司於二零一四年
十二月三日舉行之股東週年大會
上通過之一項普通決議案，本公
司每股現有已發行股份拆細為十
股拆細股份。緊隨股份拆細於二
零一四年十二月四日生效後，本
公司擁有 9,409,635,250 股已發行
及繳足股份。

(e)  於二零一四年十二月十七日，本
公司按每兩股現有股份獲送一股
紅股之基準派送紅股，合資格股
東毋須支付任何代價。於記錄日
期二零一四年十二月十七日，現
有已發行股份 9,409,635,250 股，
因此，4,704,817,625 股紅股作為
繳足股份派送。

All  new  shares  issued  during  the  year  rank  pari  passu  in  all 
respects with the then existing shares.

於本年度內發行的所有新股份在各
方面與當時現有股份享有同等地位。

109

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告30.  RESERVES

The Company

30.  儲備

本公司

Share
option
reserve

Available-for
-sale financial
assets
revaluation
reserve
可供出售財務
購股權儲備 資產重估儲備
HK$’000
千港元
(Note b)
（附註b）

HK$’000
千港元

Special
capital
Share
premium
reserve
股份溢價 特定資本儲備
HK$’000
HK$’000
千港元
千港元
(Note a)
（附註a）

Accumulated
losses
累計虧損
HK$’000
千港元

Total
總計
HK$’000
千港元

At 1 January 2013

於二零一三年一月一日

2,372,489

Profit for the year

本年度內溢利

Other comprehensive income
Item that may be reclassified
  subsequently to profit or loss
Net fair value gain on available-for-sale

financial assets

其他全面收入
其後可能重新分類至損益
  之項目
可供出售財務資產公平值
  之收益淨額

Other comprehensive income

for the year

Total comprehensive income

for the year

本年度內其他
  全面收入

本年度內全面
  收入總額

Transactions with equity holders
Transfer upon full settlement of
  all outstanding debts at the
  effective date of the capital reduction

與權益持有人交易
於股本削減生效當日
  結欠的債務全數清付後
  作出轉撥

Contributions and distributions
Placing of shares, net of expenses
Recognition of equity-settled
  share-based payments
Issue of shares under share
  option scheme, net of expenses

供款及分派
配售股份，已扣除開支
確認以股權結算之
  股份付款
根據購股權計劃發行股份，
  已扣除開支

Total transactions with equity holders 與權益持有人交易總額

—

—

—

—

3,102

—

—

—

—

—

(7)

(1,181)

—

—

(1,921)

16,561

(1,174)

—

9,817

26,378

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

616

(616)

—

—

—

—

(675,014)

1,700,577

77,084

77,084

4,844

4,844

—

—

4,844

4,844

4,844

77,084

81,928

—

—

—

—

—

1,921

—

—

—

—

—

15,387

616

9,194

25,197

4,844

(596,009)

1,807,702

At 31 December 2013

於二零一三年十二月三十一日

2,398,867

110

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
30.  RESERVES (Cont’d)

The Company (Cont’d)

30.  儲備（續）

本公司（續）

Available-for-
sale financial
assets
revaluation
reserve
可供出售財務

Accumulated
(losses)/
Share
profits
累計
premium
股份溢價 資產重估儲備 （虧損）╱溢利
HK$’000
HK$’000
HK$’000
千港元
千港元
千港元
(Note b)
(Note a)
（附註b）
（附註a）

Note
附註

Total
總計
HK$’000
千港元

At 1 January 2014

Profit for the year

Other comprehensive income
Item that may be reclassified
  subsequently to profit or loss
Net fair value gain on
  available-for-sale financial assets

Other comprehensive income

for the year

Total comprehensive income

for the year

於二零一四年一月一日

2,398,867

4,844

(596,009)

1,807,702

本年度內溢利

其他全面收入

已或其後可能重新分類至損益
  之項目

可供出售財務資產公平值
  之收益淨額

本年度內其他
  全面收入

本年度內全面
  收入總額

—

—

—

—

—

653,527

653,527

14,453

14,453

—

—

14,453

14,453

14,453

653,527

667,980

Transfer to share capital upon
  abolition of nominal value of shares

廢除股份面值時由股份
  溢價轉撥

(a)

(2,398,867)

—

—

(2,398,867)

At 31 December 2014

於二零一四年十二月三十一日

—

19,297

57,518

76,815

111

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30.  RESERVES (Cont’d)

Notes:

30.  儲備（續）

附註：

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

The  application  of  the  Company’s  share  premium  account  is 
governed  by  the  predecessor  Hong  Kong  Companies  Ordinance 
(Cap.  32)  prior  to  3  March  2014,  the  commencement  date  of  the 
new  Hong  Kong  Companies  Ordinance  (Cap.  622).  On  3  March 
2014,  the  amount  standing  to  the  credit  of  the  Company’s  share 
premium account became part of the Company’s share capital and 
was transferred to the share capital account accordingly.

(a)  於 二 零 一 四 年 三 月 三 日（新 香 港
公司條例（第 622 章）之生效日期）
前，本公司股份溢價賬乃根據前
身香港公司條例規定應用。於二
零一四年三月三日，本公司股份
溢價賬之進賬金額成為本公司股
本之一部分，並相應轉撥至股本
賬。

The available-for-sale financial assets revaluation reserve is arisen 
from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 
which are measured at fair value.

(b)  可供出售財務資產重估儲備由按
公平值計量之可供出售財務資產
公平值變動而產生。

At the end of the reporting period, the aggregate amount of reserves 
available  for  distribution  to  the  equity  holders  of  the  Company 
comprising  the  accumulated  profits  amounted  to  HK$76,815,000 
(2013: nil).

(c)  於呈報期結算日，可供分派予本
公司權益持有人的儲備總額包括
累 計 溢 利 76,815,00 港 元（二零
一三年：無）。

31.  SHARE OPTION SCHEME

31.  購股權計劃

On 22 May 2012 with approval by the shareholders, the Company 
adopted  a  share  option  scheme  (the  “Scheme”)  for  a  period  of 
ten  years  to  replace  the  share  option  scheme  approved  on  20 
November  2002,  that  would  otherwise  expire  on  20  November 
2012. Under the Scheme, the board of directors of the Company 
may  grant  options  to  eligible  employees  including  directors 
of  the  Company  and  its  subsidiaries  and  any  other  persons 
including  consultants,  advisors,  agents,  customers,  suppliers, 
etc.  to  subscribe  for  shares  in  the  Company.  The  purpose  of 
the  Scheme  is  to  provide  participants  with  the  opportunity  to 
acquire  proprietary  interest  in  the  Company  and  to  encourage 
the  participants  to  work  towards  enhancing  the  value  of  the 
Company and its shares for the benefit of the Company and the 
shareholders as a whole.

於二零一二年五月二十二日，本公
司 採 納 十 年 期 購 股 權 計 劃（「該 計
劃」），以代替於二零零二年十一月
二十日批准之購股權計劃（其於二零
一二年十一月二十日屆滿）。根據該
計劃，本公司董事會可授出購股權
予合資格僱員（包括本公司及其附屬
公司之董事）及任何其他人士（包括
顧問、諮詢人、代理人、客戶、供
應商等），以認購本公司股份。該計
劃旨在向參與者提供機會以獲取本
公司的股本權益，並鼓勵參與者為
提高本公司及其股份價值而作出努
力，以符合本公司及股東的整體利
益。

112

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告31.  SHARE OPTION SCHEME (Cont’d)

31.  購股權計劃（續）

The maximum number of shares in respect of which options may 
be granted and yet to be exercised under the Scheme and other 
share option scheme of the Company is not permitted to exceed 
30%  of  the  total  number  of  shares  of  the  Company  in  issue 
from  time  to  time,  without  prior  approval  from  the  Company’s 
shareholders.  The  total  number  of  shares  which  may  be  issued 
upon exercise of all options to be granted under the Scheme to 
any individual in any 12-month period is not permitted to exceed 
1% of the total number of shares of the Company in issue, without 
prior approval from the Company’s shareholders. Options granted 
to  a  substantial  shareholder  or  an  independent  non-executive 
director of the Company or any of their respective associates in 
excess of 0.1% of the Company’s shares in issue and having an 
aggregate  value  in  excess  of  HK$5,000,000  must  be  subject  to 
prior approval by the Company’s shareholders.

Under the Scheme, an amount of HK$1 is payable on the grant 
of  an  option.  Options  may  be  exercised  no  later  than  ten  years 
from the date of grant of the share option. The exercise price is 
determined by the directors of the Company, and will not be less 
than the higher of the closing price of the Company’s shares on 
the date of grant and the average closing price of the shares for 
the five business days immediately preceding the date of grant.

No  share  options  under  the  Scheme  were  granted/exercised 
during the year nor outstanding as at 31 December 2014. During 
the year ended 31 December 2013, the fair value of equity-settled 
share-based  payment  of  HK$616,000  had  been  recognised  in 
profit or loss.

未經本公司股東事先批准，根據該
計劃及本公司任何其他購股權計劃
授出但尚未行使之購股權所涉及之
股份最多不得超過本公司不時已發
行股份總數之 30%。未經本公司股
東事先批准，於任何十二個月期間
因行使根據該計劃授出之所有購股
權而可能發行予任何個人之股份總
數不得超過本公司已發行股份總數
之 1%。倘授予本公司主要股東或
獨立非執行董事或彼等各自之任何
聯繫人士之購股權所涉及之股份數
目超過本公司已發行股份之 0.1%，
且 總 價 值 超 過 5,000,000 港 元， 則
必須經本公司股東預先批准。

根據該計劃，獲授購股權須支付 1
港元。購股權可自購股權授出日期
起十年內行使。行使價由本公司董
事釐定，須不低於本公司股份於授
出日期之收市價及股份於緊接授出
日期前五個營業日之平均收市價兩
者中之較高者。

於本年度內並無根據該計劃授出╱
行使任何購股權，而於二零一四年
十二月三十一日概無根據該計劃之
購股權尚未行使。於截至二零一三
年 十 二 月 三 十 一 日 止 年 度， 為 數
616,000 港元以股權結算之股份付
款之公平值已於損益內確認。

113

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告32.  NON-CURRENT ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE

32.  分類為持作出售之非流動資產

In  December  2014,  the  Group  entered  into  an  agreement  with 
an  independent  third  party  to  dispose  of  its  entire  interest  in  a 
subsidiary of the Group together with the contractual interest in a 
yacht in this subsidiary under a conditional term at an aggregate 
consideration  of  EUR7,100,000  (equivalent  to  HK$69,000,000). 
In accordance to the terms and conditions in the agreement, the 
transaction  will  be  completed  upon  the  delivery  of  yacht,  which 
is expected to occur in May or June 2015. The entire amount of 
the contracted consideration is required to be settled fully on or 
before 30 March 2015. As a result, the deposit paid for acquisition 
of  yacht  amounted  to  HK$4,996,000  has  been  classified  as 
“Non-current  assets  held  for  sale”  in  the  consolidated  financial 
statements.

於二零一四年十二月，本集團與一
名獨立第三方訂立協議，以根據有
條件條款出售其於本集團之一間附
屬公司之全部權益連同該附屬公司
一 艘 遊 艇 之 合 約 權 益， 總 代 價 為
7,100,000 歐 元（相 等 於 69,000,000
港元）。根據該協議之條款及條件，
交易將於交付遊艇時（預期將於二零
一五年五月或六月發生）完成。該
合約代價總額須於二零一五年三月
三十日或之前結清。因此，收購遊
艇 之 已 付 按 金 4,996,000 港 元 於 綜
合財務報表內分類為「持作出售之非
流動資產」。

33.  RETIREMENT SCHEME

33.  退休計劃

The  Group  has  provided  for  its  eligible  employees  a  defined 
contribution retirement scheme under Mandatory Provident Fund 
Scheme  (the  “MPF  Scheme”).  The  assets  of  the  MPF  Scheme 
are held separately from those of the Group in an independently 
administered  fund  managed  by  independent  trustees.  Under 
the  MPF  Scheme,  the  Group  and  each  of  the  employees  make 
monthly  contributions  to  the  scheme  at  5%  of  the  employees’ 
relevant income as defined under the Mandatory Provident Fund 
legislation, which are subject to a cap of HK$1,250 before June 
2014 and HK$1,500 since June 2014 (2013: HK$1,250).

During  the  year,  the  amount  of  employer’s  contributions  made 
by the Group to the defined contribution retirement scheme was 
approximately HK$280,000 (2013: HK$198,000).

本集團為其合資格僱員安排參與強
制性公積金計劃（「強積金計劃」）的
界定退休供款計劃。強積金計劃的
資產與本集團資產分開，存放於獨
立受託人獨立管理的基金。根據強
積金計劃，本集團及各僱員每月按
強積金計劃法規界定的僱員相關收
入之 5% 向該計劃供款，惟以二零
一四年六月前為 1,250 港元及二零
一 四 年 六 月 起 為 1,500 港 元（二零
一三年：1,250港元）作上限。

於 本 年 度 內， 本 集 團 向 界 定 供 款
退 休 計 劃 所 作 僱 主 供 款 數 額 約
為 280,000 港 元（二 零 一 四 年：
198,000港元）。

114

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告34.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

34.  關連人士交易

Other  than  disclosed  elsewhere  in  the  consolidated  financial 
statements, the Group had the following related party transactions 
during the year:

除於綜合財務報表其他部分所披露
者外，本集團於本年度內進行之關
連人士交易如下：

(a)  Transactions with associates

(a)  與聯營公司之交易

Nature of transaction
  Brokerage fee

Interest expenses

  Rental income

交易性質
  經紀佣金
  利息開支
  租金收入

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

19
5
125

—
—
—

(b)  Compensation of key management personnel

The remuneration of the Company’s directors (executive and 
non-executive) during the year is as follows:

(b)  主要管理層人員之酬金

本年度內，本公司董事（執行
及非執行）之酬金如下：

Directors’ fees
Salaries, allowances and
  benefits in kind
Contributions to defined
  contribution retirement scheme

董事袍金
薪金、津貼及
  實物利益
界定退休
  計劃供款

The  remuneration  of  the  Company’s  directors  is  reviewed 
by  the  Remuneration  Committee  having  regard  to  the 
performance of individuals and market trends.

Further  details  of  the  emoluments  of  the  Company’s 
directors are included in note 9 to the consolidated financial 
statements.

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

680

4,221

66

4,967

720

4,068

55

4,843

本公司董事之酬金由薪酬委員
會參考個人表現及市場趨勢作
出檢討。

本公司董事酬金的進一步詳情
載於綜合財務報表附註 9。

115

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35.  FINANCIAL  RISK  MANAGEMENT  OBJECTIVE  AND 

35.  財務風險管理目標及政策

POLICIES

The Group’s financial instruments include financial assets at fair 
value  through  profit  or  loss,  loans  receivable,  available-for-sale 
financial  assets,  cash  and  cash  equivalents,  interest-bearing 
borrowing, unsecured bonds and other receivables and payables. 
The  accounting  policies  for  financial  instruments  have  been 
applied to the line items below.

本集團之金融工具包括按公平值計
入損益之財務資產、應收貸款、可
供 出 售 財 務 資 產、 現 金 及 現 金 等
值、計息借款、無抵押債券及其他
應收款項及應付款項。金融工具的
會計政策已應用於以下項目中。

The Group

At 31 December 2014

於二零一四年十二月三十一日

Financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets
Financial assets at fair
  value through profit or loss
Loans receivable
Other receivables
Bank balances and cash

Total

財務資產
可供出售財務資產
按公平值計入損益
  之財務資產
應收貸款
其他應收款項
銀行結餘及現金

總計

Financial liabilities, at
  amortised cost
Other payables
Interest-bearing borrowing
Unsecured bonds

按攤銷成本計量
  之財務負債
其他應付款項
計息借款
無抵押債券

Total

總計

本集團

Financial
assets at
fair value
through
profit or loss
按公平值
計入損益之
財務資產
HK$’000
千港元

Loans
and
receivables

貸款及
應收款項
HK$’000
千港元

Available-for-
sale financial
assets

可供出售
財務資產
HK$’000
千港元

Total

總計
HK$’000
千港元

—

—

49,295

49,295

—
320,373
1,795
176,321

470,599
—
—
—

—
—
—
—

470,599
320,373
1,795
176,321

498,489

470,599

49,295

1,018,383

HK$’ 000
千港元

2,574
4,183
20,000

26,757

116

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35.  FINANCIAL  RISK  MANAGEMENT  OBJECTIVE  AND 

35.  財務風險管理目標及政策（續）

POLICIES (Cont’d)

The Group (Cont’d)

At 31 December 2013

於二零一三年十二月三十一日

Financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets
Financial assets at fair value
through profit or loss

Loans receivable
Other receivables
Bank balances and cash

Total

財務資產
可供出售財務資產
按公平值計入損益
  之財務資產
應收貸款
其他應收款項
現金及現金等值

總計

Financial liabilities,
  at amortised cost
Other payables
Interest-bearing borrowing

按攤銷成本計量
  之財務負債
其他應付款項
計息借款

Total

總計

本集團（續）

Financial
assets at
fair value
through
profit or loss
按公平值
計入損益之
財務資產
HK$’000
千港元

Available-for-
sale financial
assets

可供出售
財務資產
HK$’000
千港元

Loans
and
receivables

貸款及
應收款項
HK$’000
千港元

Total

總計
HK$’000
千港元

—

—

604,620

604,620

—
120,219
2,339
50,470

988,198
—
—
—

—
—
—
—

988,198
120,219
2,339
50,470

173,028

988,198

604,620

1,765,846

HK$’000
千港元

2,551
4,362

6,913

117

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35.  FINANCIAL  RISK  MANAGEMENT  OBJECTIVE  AND 

35.  財務風險管理目標及政策（續）

POLICIES (Cont’d)

The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are 
interest  rate  risk,  equity  price  risk,  credit  risk  and  liquidity  risk. 
The Group does  not  have  any  written  risk management policies 
and  guidelines  except  for  loans  receivable.  However,  the  board 
of  directors  generally  adopts  conservative  strategies  on  its  risk 
management and limits the Group’s exposure to these risks to a 
minimum. The board of directors reviews and agrees policies for 
managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.

Interest rate risk
The Group’s exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates 
relates  primarily  to  the  Group’s  bank  balances  and  cash,  loans 
receivable  and  interest-bearing  borrowing.  The  Group  does  not 
use derivative financial instruments to hedge its interest rate risk.

At  the  end  of  the  reporting  period,  if  interest  rates  had  been 
100  basis  points (2013: 100 basis points)  higher  or  lower  while 
all  other  variables  were  held  constant,  the  Group’s  net  profit 
would  increase  or  decrease  by  approximately  HK$1,722,000 
and HK$39,000 respectively (2013: HK$462,000 and HK$42,000 
respectively).

The  sensitivity  analysis  above  has  been  determined  assuming 
that the change in interest rates had occurred at the end of the 
reporting period and had been applied to the exposure to interest 
rate risk for all financial instruments in existence at that date. The 
100  basis  points (2013: 100 basis points)  increase  or  decrease 
represents  management’s  assessment  of  a  reasonably  possible 
change in interest rates over the period until the end of the next 
annual reporting period. The analysis was performed on the same 
basis for 2013.

本集團金融工具所產生之主要風險
為利率風險、股本價格風險、信貸
風險及流動資金風險。除與應收貸
款相關者外，本集團並無任何明文
之風險管理政策及指引。然而，董
事會一般就其風險管理採取保守策
略，並將本集團所承擔之風險限制
在最低水平。董事會檢討及同意管
理上述各種風險之相關政策，各風
險概述如下。

利率風險
本集團因利率變動而承擔之市場風
險主要與銀行結餘及現金、應收貸
款及計息借款有關。本集團並無使
用衍生金融工具對沖利率風險。

於呈報期結算日，倘利率上升或下
降 100 個基點（二零一三年：100個
基點）而其他所有變量維持不變，
本集團之淨溢利將分別增加或減少
約 1,722,000 港元及 39,000 港元（二
零一三年：分別為462,000港元及
42,000港元）。

上述敏感度分析之釐定乃假設利率
變動於呈報期結算日發生，並已將
該變動套用於該日存在之所有金融
工具面對之利率風險。增加或減少
100 個基點（二零一三年：100個基
點）指管理層評估利率於直至下一年
度呈報期結算日期間之合理可能變
動。二零一三年之分析乃按相同基
準進行。

118

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告35.  FINANCIAL  RISK  MANAGEMENT  OBJECTIVE  AND 

35.  財務風險管理目標及政策（續）

POLICIES (Cont’d)

Equity price risk
The  Group  and  the  Company  are  exposed  to  equity  price  risk 
arising  from  trading  of  listed  equity  securities  and  unlisted 
financial  assets  classified  as  investments  held  for  trading, 
investments  designated  as  at  fair  value  upon  initial  recognition 
and available-for-sale financial assets. The sensitivity analysis has 
been determined based on the exposure to equity price risk.

At  the  end  of  the  reporting  period,  if  the  quoted  market  prices 
of  the  trading  securities  had  been  15% (2013: 15%)  higher 
or  lower  while  all  other  variables  were  held  constant,  the 
Group  and  the  Company’s  profit  before  taxation  for  the  year 
would  increase  or  decrease  by  approximately  HK$63,717,000 
(2013: HK$147,432,000)  and  HK$8,438,000 (2013: 4,102,000) 
respectively as a result of changes in fair value of investments.

At the end of the reporting period, if the quoted market price of 
the available-for-sale financial assets had been 15% (2013: 15%) 
higher  or  lower  which  all  other  variables  were  held  constant, 
other  comprehensive  income  of  the  Group  and  the  Company 
would  increase  or  decrease  by  approximately  HK$4,219,000 
(2013: HK$2,051,000)  and  HK$4,219,000 (2013: HK$2,051,000) 
respectively as a result of changes in fair value of investments.

The  sensitivity  analysis  has  been  determined  assuming  that  the 
reasonably possible changes in the stock market index or other 
relevant  risk  variables  had  occurred  at  the  end  of  the  reporting 
period and had been applied to the exposure to equity price risk 
in existence at that date. It is also assumed that the fair values of 
the  investments  of  the  Group  and  the  Company  would  change 
in  accordance  with  the  historical  correlation  with  the  relevant 
stock market index or the relevant risk variables, that none of the 
securities investments of the Group and the Company would be 
considered impaired as a result of a reasonably possible decrease 
in the relevant stock market index or other relevant risk variables, 
and that all other variables remain constant. The stated changes 
represent  management’s  assessment  of  reasonably  possible 
changes  in  the  relevant  stock  market  index  or  the  relevant  risk 
variables over the period until the end of the next annual reporting 
period. The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2013.

股本價格風險
本集團及本公司之股本價格風險乃
來自分類為持作買賣投資之上市股
本證券及非上市財務資產、首次確
認時指定為按公平值列賬之投資買
賣及可供出售財務資產。敏感度分
析乃基於所承擔之股本價格風險釐
定。

於呈報期結算日，倘買賣證券之市
場報價上升或下降 15%（二零一三
年：15%）而其他所有變量維持不
變，本集團及本公司之年內除稅前
溢 利 將 因 投 資 之 公 平 值 變 動 而 分
別 增 加 或 減 少 約 63,717,000 港 元
（二零一三年：147,432,000港元）
及 8,438,000 港 元（二零一三年：
4,102,000港元）。

於呈報期結算日，倘可供出售財務
資 產 的 市 場 報 價 上 升 或 下 降 15%
（二零一三年：15%）而 其 他 所 有
變量維持不變，由於投資公平值變
動，本公司及本集團的其他全面收
入 將 分 別 增 加 或 減 少 約 4,219,000
港 元（二零一三年：2,051,000港
元）及 4,219,000 港 元（二零一三
年：2,051,000港元）。

敏感度分析之釐定乃假設股市指數
或其他相關風險變量之合理可能變
動於呈報期結算日已經發生，並已
將該變動套用於該日存在之股本價
格風險。同時假設本集團及本公司
投資項目之公平值會根據與相關股
市指數或相關風險變量之過往關聯
性而變化，並假設本集團及本公司
之證券投資不會因相關股市指數或
其他相關風險變量之合理可能下跌
而視為已減值，亦假設所有其他變
量維持不變。所列示之變動指管理
層評估相關股市指數或相關風險變
量於直至下一年度呈報期結算日期
間之合理可能變動。二零一三年之
分析乃按相同基準進行。

119

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
35.  FINANCIAL  RISK  MANAGEMENT  OBJECTIVE  AND 

35.  財務風險管理目標及政策（續）

POLICIES (Cont’d)

Credit risk
Credit quality analysis for provision of financial service

信貸風險

  提供金融服務的信貸質素分析

The  Group  regards  a  loan  receivable  as  impaired  if  there  is 
objective  evidence  that  a  loss  event  has  occurred  since  initial 
recognition and the loss event has an impact on future estimated 
cash flows from the asset.

A  loan  receivable  that  has  been  renegotiated  due  to  a 
deterioration in the borrower’s condition is usually considered to 
be impaired unless there is evidence that the risk of not receiving 
contractual cash flows has reduced significantly and there are no 
other indicators of impairment.

Loans  receivables  that  are  past  due  but  not  impaired  are  those 
for which principal payments are past due but the Group believes 
that  impairment  is  not  appropriate  on  the  basis  of  the  level  of 
security or collateral available and/or the stage of collection owed 
to the Group, if any.

倘有客觀證據顯示自首次確認以來
已發生虧損事件，且虧損事件已對
未來估計自資產獲得之現金流量產
生影響，則本集團視應收貸款為已
減值。

因借款人狀況惡化而重新協定之應
收貸款通常被視為已減值，除非有
證據顯示無法收取合約現金流量之
風險已顯著降低且並無其他減值跡
象。

已逾期但未減值之應收貸款乃為本
金已逾期，但本集團基於現有擔保
或抵押品及╱或本集團收款階段（若
有）認為作出減值並不合適。

The Group

  本集團

The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to loans receivable, 
listed  debt,  securities,  other  receivables  and  bank  balances 
and cash. The carrying amounts of these balances substantially 
represent the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk at the end 
of the reporting period.

Management  has  money  lending  policies  in  place  and  the 
exposure  to  the  credit  risk  is  monitored  on  an  ongoing  basis. 
The  Group  provides  financial  services  only  with  recognised  and 
creditworthy  third  parties.  It  is  the  Group’s  policy  that  all  these 
borrowers are subject to credit verification procedures.

The  Group’s  exposure  to  credit  risk  is  influenced  mainly  by  the 
individual  characteristics  of  each  borrower.  The  default  risk  of 
the  industry  in  which  corporate  borrowers  operate  also  has  an 
influence on  credit  risk  but  to  a  lesser  extent. At the end of the 
reporting period, the Group had a concentration of credit risk as 
77% (2013: 38%) of the total loans receivable were due from the 
Group’s five largest borrowers.

本 集 團 信 貸 風 險 主 要 來 自 應 收 貸
款、上市債務、證券、其他應收款
項及銀行結餘及現金。該等結餘之
賬面值主要指本集團於呈報期結算
日所承擔之最大信貸風險。

管理層已實施借貸政策，並不斷監
察信貸風險之程度。本集團僅為獲
認可且信譽良好之第三方提供財務
服務。本集團之政策規定，所有該
等借款人均須通過信用核實程序。

本集團承受信貸風險之程度主要因
各借款人之特性而異。公司借款人
所從事行業出現拖欠風險亦影響信
貸風險，但程度較微。於呈報期結
算日，本集團應收其五大借款人之
貸款總額之信貸風險集中度為 77%

（二零一三年：38%）。

120

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
35.  FINANCIAL  RISK  MANAGEMENT  OBJECTIVE  AND 

35.  財務風險管理目標及政策（續）

POLICIES (Cont’d)

Credit risk (Cont’d)
The Group (Cont’d)

信貸風險（續）

  本集團（續）

The  Group  has  limited  credit  risk  with  its  money  deposited  in 
financial institutions and brokers, which are leading and reputable 
and  are  assessed  as  having  low  credit  risk.  The  Group  has  not 
suffered any significant losses arising from the non-performance 
by these parties in the past and management does not expect this 
position to change in the future.

Except for the  financial  guarantees  granted by the Company as 
set  out  in  note  39  to  the  consolidated  financial  statements,  the 
Group does not provide any other guarantee which would expose 
the Group or the Company to material credit risk.

The  carrying  amount  of  financial  assets  recorded  in  the 
consolidated  financial  statements,  which  is  net  of  impairment 
losses, represented the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk 
without taken into account the value of any collateral obtained.

本集團將其款項存放於領先、知名
及信貸風險低之金融機構及證券經
紀，故所承擔之信貸風險有限。本
集團過往並無因該等人士不履行合
約而蒙受任何重大損失，而管理層
預期未來該狀況不會變動。

除綜合財務報表附註 39 所載本公司
提供之財務擔保外，本集團並無提
供可能令本集團或本公司承受重大
信貸風險之任何其他擔保。

記錄於綜合財務報表的財務資產之
賬面值（已扣除減值虧損），指本集
團並未計及所得任何抵押物價值的
最大信貸風險。

The Company

  本公司

The  Company’s  credit  risk  is  primarily  attributable  to  amounts 
due  from  subsidiaries.  As  at  31  December  2014,  the  Company 
had a concentration of risk as 34% (2013: 52%) and 98% (2013: 
99%) of  the  total  amounts  are  due  from  the  Company’s  largest 
subsidiary and five largest subsidiaries respectively.

本公司的信貸風險主要來自應收附
屬公司款項。於二零一四年十二月
三十一日，本公司應收其最大附屬
公司及五大附屬公司之款項總額之
風險集中度分別為 34%（二零一三
年：52%）及 98%（二零一三年：
99%）。

121

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
35.  FINANCIAL  RISK  MANAGEMENT  OBJECTIVE  AND 

35.  財務風險管理目標及政策（續）

POLICIES (Cont’d)

Liquidity risk
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity 
of funding and flexibility principally through bank borrowing. The 
Group closely monitors its exposure to liquidity risk by reviewing 
the  cash  position  report  on  a  daily  basis  and  analysing  the 
efficiency of fund management.

At  the  end  of  the  reporting  period,  the  Group  had  loan  facility 
of  HK$4,550,000 (2013: HK$4,550,000)  and  margin  facilities  of 
HK$166,010,000 (2013: HK$438,102,000)  from  certain  financial 
institutions  and  brokers  to  maintain  funding  flexibility  and  meet 
liquidity needs and HK$4,183,000 (2013: HK$4,362,000) and none 
(2013: none) of the amount were utilised respectively.

The  maturity  profile  of  the  Group’s  non-derivative  financial 
liabilities at the end of the reporting period, based on contractual 
undiscounted payments. Specifically, bank loan with a repayment 
on demand clause is included in the earliest time band regardless 
of the probability of the bank choosing to exercise its discretionary 
rights.  The  Group’s  financial  liabilities  as  at  the  end  of  the 
reporting period, based on the remaining contractual maturities, 
are summarised below:

流動資金風險
本 集 團 之 主 要 目 標 為 透 過 銀 行 借
款，在資金延續性與靈活性之間保
持平衡。本集團每日審閱現金狀況
報告並分析資金管理效益，密切監
控流動資金風險。

於 呈 報 期 結 算 日， 本 集 團 已 獲 若
干 金 融 機 構 及 證 券 經 紀 提 供 貸 款
融 資 4,550,000 港 元（二 零 一 三
年：4,550,000港元）及 孖 展 融 資
166,010,000 港 元（二零一三年：
483,102,000港元）以保持資金靈活
性及應付流動資金需求，並分別已
動用 4,183,000 港元（二零一三年：
4,362,000港元）及零（二零一三
年：零）。

本集團於呈報期結算日按合約未折
現付款計算之非衍生財務負債，具
體而言，對於按要求償還條款之銀
行貸款，被包括在最早時限之內，
不論銀行是否選擇行使其酌情權。
本集團於呈報期結算日按餘下合約
到期日計算之財務負債之到期情況
概述如下：

122

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
35.  FINANCIAL  RISK  MANAGEMENT  OBJECTIVE  AND 

35.  財務風險管理目標及政策（續）

POLICIES (Cont’d)

Liquidity risk (Cont’d)

The Group

At 31 December 2014

Other payables
Interest-bearing borrowing
Unsecured bonds
Financial guarantee contracts (note 39) 財務擔保合約 （附註39）

於二零一四年
  十二月三十一日
其他應付款項
計息借款
無抵押債券

At 31 December 2013

Other payables
Interest-bearing borrowing
Financial guarantee contracts (note 39) 財務擔保合約（附註39）

於二零一三年
  十二月三十一日
其他應付款項
計息借款

流動資金風險（續）

本集團

3 - 12 months

1 - 5 years

Over 5 years

3至12個月
HK$’000
千港元

1至5年
HK$’000
千港元

5年以上
HK$’000
千港元

Total
contractual
undiscounted
cash flow
合約未折現
現金流總額
HK$’000
千港元

381
—
619
—

1,000

9
—
—

9

—
—
5,000
—

5,000

—
—
—

—

—
—
21,000
—

21,000

—
—
—

—

2,574
4,183
26,619
13,709

47,085

2,551
4,362
13,709

20,622

On demand
or less than
3 months
按要求或
少於3個月
HK$’000
千港元

2,193
4,183
—
13,709

20,085

2,542
4,362
13,709

20,613

Total
carrying
value

總賬面值
HK$’000
千港元

2,574
4,183
20,000
—

26,757

2,551
4,362
—

6,913

123

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35.  FINANCIAL  RISK  MANAGEMENT  OBJECTIVE  AND 

35.  財務風險管理目標及政策（續）

POLICIES (Cont’d)

Liquidity risk (Cont’d)

The Group

The  interest-bearing  borrowing  with  a  repayment  on  demand 
clause is included in the “on demand or less than 3 months” time 
band  in  the  above  maturity  analysis  even  though  the  directors 
do  not  expect  that  the  bank  would  exercise  its  discretionary 
rights  to  demand  repayment  and  believe  that  the  loan  will  be 
paid in accordance with the scheduled repayment dates set out 
in  loan  facility  letter.  In  accordance  with  the  agreed  scheduled 
repayment dates set out in the loan facility letter, the contractual 
undiscounted  payments  as  at  the  end  of  the  reporting  date  are 
summarised below:

流動資金風險（續）

本集團

具有按要求償還條款之銀行借款在
上述日期分析計入「按要求或少於 3
個月」之時間範圍內，儘管董事預
期銀行不會行使其酌情權而要求還
款，並相信該貸款將根據貸款融資
函件所載預定還款日期償還。根據
貸款融資函件所載同意還款日期，
於呈報期結算日之合約未折現付款
概述如下：

On demand
or less than
3 months
按要求或
少於3個月
HK$’000
千港元

3 - 12 months

1 - 5 years

Over 5 years

3至12個月
HK$’000
千港元

1至5年
HK$’000
千港元

5年以上
HK$’000
千港元

Total
contractual
undiscounted
cash flow
合約未折現
現金流總額
HK$’000
千港元

Total
carrying
value

總賬面值
HK$’000
千港元

At 31 December 2014
Interest-bearing borrowing

At 31 December 2013
Interest-bearing borrowing

於二零一四年十二月三十一日
計息借款

於二零一三年十二月三十一日
計息借款

49

49

246

246

1,182

3,816

5,293

4,183

1,180

4,105

5,580

4,362

124

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35.  FINANCIAL  RISK  MANAGEMENT  OBJECTIVE  AND 

35.  財務風險管理目標及政策（續）

POLICIES (Cont’d)

Liquidity risk (Cont’d)

The Company

At 31 December 2014
Unsecured bonds
Other payables
Financial guarantee contracts (note 39) 財務擔保合約（附註39）

於二零一四年十二月三十一日
無抵押債券
其他應付款項

At 31 December 2013
Other payables
Financial guarantee contracts (note 39) 財務擔保合約（附註39）

於二零一三年十二月三十一日
其他應付款項

流動資金風險（續）

本公司

3 - 12 months

1 - 5 years

Over 5 years

3至12個月
HK$’000
千港元

1至5年
HK$’000
千港元

5年以上
HK$’000
千港元

Total
contractual
undiscounted
cash flow
合約未折現
現金流總額
HK$’000
千港元

Total
carrying
value

總賬面值
HK$’000
千港元

619
—
—

619

—
—

—

5,000
—
—

5,000

—
—

—

21,000
—
—

26,619
1,131,923
17,892

20,000
1,131,923
—

21,000

1,176,434

1,151,923

—
—

—

971
18,071

19,042

971
—

971

On demand
or less than
3 months
按要求或
少於3個月
HK$’000
千港元

—
1,131,923
17,892

1,149,815

971
18,071

19,042

The amounts include above for financial guarantee contracts are 
the maximum amounts of the corporate guarantees shown in the 
earliest periods in which the guarantees could be called. Based 
on the past history and expectations at the end of the reporting 
period,  the  directors  do  not  consider  it  probable  that  a  claim 
will  be  made  against  the  Group  and  the  Company  under  these 
guarantees.

上文所載有關財務擔保合約的款項
為可催繳擔保於最早期間所示的公
司擔保最大金額。根據過往經驗及
於呈報期結算日的預期，董事認為
本集團及本公司不大可能就該等擔
保遭索償。

125

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT

36.  公平值計量

The following presents the assets and liabilities that are measured 
at fair value or required to disclose their fair value in these financial 
statements on a recurring basis at 31 December 2014 across the 
three levels of the fair value hierarchy defined in HKFRS 13 Fair 
Value Measurement, with the fair value measurement categorised 
in  its  entirety  based  on  the  lowest  level  input  that  is  significant 
to  the  entire  measurement.  The  levels  of  inputs  are  defined  as 
follows:

• 

• 

• 

Level 1 (highest level): quoted prices (unadjusted) in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group can 
access at the measurement date;

Level  2:  inputs  other  than  quoted  prices  included  within 
Level  1  that  are  observable  for  the  asset  or  liability,  either 
directly or indirectly;

Level 3  (lowest  level):  unobservable inputs for the asset or 
liability.

以下以公平值計量或需經常性披露
其公平值於本財務報表內之資產或
負債於二零一四年十二月三十一日
按 香 港 財 務 報 告 準 則 第 13 號公平
值計量所界定之公平值三個等級呈
列，而公平值計量是按最低等級輸
入數據對其計量有重大影響作整體
分類。所界定之輸入等級如下：

‧  第 1 級（最高等級）：本集團於
計 量 日 可 取 得 相 同 資 產 或 負
債在活躍市場之報價（未經調
整）；

‧  第 2 級：除包括於第 1 級別之
報價外，對於資產或負債之輸
入數據乃是可直接或間接從觀
察所得；

‧  第 3 級（最低等級）：對於資產
或負債之輸入數據乃是非可觀
察的。

(a)  Fair value hierarchy

(a)  公平值等級

Assets measured at fair value

At 31 December 2014
Financial assets at fair value

through profit or loss (note 21)

– investments held for trading
– investments designated as at fair
  value upon initial recognition

於二零一四年十二月三十一日
按公平值計入損益之
  財務資產（附註21）
－持作買賣投資
－於首次確認時指定為按
  公平值列賬之投資

Available-for-sale financial assets

(note 19)

– listed equity securities

可供出售財務資產
  （附註19）
－上市之股本證券

Investment properties (note 14)

投資物業（附註14）

The Group
本集團

按公平值計量之資產

The Company
本公司

Level 1
第1級
HK$’000
千港元

Level 2
第2級
HK$’000
千港元

Level 3
第3級
HK$’000
千港元

Total
總計
HK$’000
千港元

Level 1
第1級
HK$’000
千港元

Level 2
第2級
HK$’000
千港元

Level 3
第3級
HK$’000
千港元

Total
總計
HK$’000
千港元

449,021

—

—

21,578

28,126

—

—

—

—

—

—

449,021

56,253

21,578

—

28,126

28,126

11,650

11,650

—

477,147

21,578

11,650

510,375

84,379

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

56,253

—

28,126

—

84,379

126

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Cont’d)

36.  公平值計量（續）

(a)  Fair value hierarchy (Cont’d)

(a)  公平值等級（續）

The Group
本集團

The Company
本公司

Level 1
第1級
HK$’000
千港元

Level 2
第2級
HK$’000
千港元

Level 3
第3級
HK$’000
千港元

Total
總計
HK$’000
千港元

Level 1
第1級
HK$’000
千港元

Level 2
第2級
HK$’000
千港元

Level 3
第3級
HK$’000
千港元

Total
總計
HK$’000
千港元

At 31 December 2013
Financial assets at fair value

through profit or loss (note 21)

– investments held for trading
– investments designated as at fair
  value upon initial recognition

於二零一三年十二月三十一日
按公平值計入損益之
  財務資產（附註21）
－持作買賣投資
－於首次確認時指定

982,878

—

  為按公平值列賬之投資

—

5,320

—

—

982,878

27,345

5,320

—

Available-for-sale financial assets

(note 19)

– listed equity securities

可供出售財務資產
  （附註19）
－上市之股本證券

Investment properties (note 14)

投資物業（附註14）

13,673

—

—

—

—

13,673

13,673

11,100

11,100

—

996,551

5,320

11,100

1,012,971

41,018

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

27,345

—

13,673

—

41,018

127

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Cont’d)

36.  公平值計量（續）

(a)  Fair value hierarchy (Cont’d)

(a)  公平值等級（續）

The  Group  did  not  have  any  financial  liabilities  measured 
at  fair  values  as  at  31  December  2014  and  2013.  There 
were  neither  transfers  between  Level  1  and  Level  2  fair 
value  measurements  nor  transfers  into  and  out  of  Level  3 
fair  value  measurement  during  both  reporting  periods.  The 
only  movement  in  Level  3  fair  value  measurement  during 
the  year  was  fair  value  increase  in  investment  properties 
of  HK$550,000 (2013: HK$300,000),  which  has  been 
recognised in profit or loss. The details of the movements of 
the recurring fair value measurement categorised as Level 3 
of the fair value hierarchy are as follows:

Investment properties

At beginning of reporting period 於呈報期初
公平值變動
Changes in fair value

At end of reporting period

於呈報期結算日

Change in unrealised gains for
the year included in profit or
loss for assets held at end

  of reporting period

已計入損益之
  於呈報期結算日
  持有資產之本年度內
  未變現收益變動

於 二 零 一 四 年 及 二 零 一 三 年
十 二 月 三 十 一 日， 本 集 團 並
無 任 何 按 公 平 值 計 量 之 財 務
負債。兩個呈報期內，第 1 級
及第 2 級公平值計量之間並無
轉換，亦無轉入第 3 級公平值
計量或自第 3 級公平值計量轉
出。本年度唯一一項第 3 級公
平值計量變動為已於損益內確
認 之 為 數 550,000 港 元（二零
一三年：300,000港元）之 投
資物業公平值增加。分類為公
平值等級第 3 級之經常性公平
值計量之變動詳情如下：

投資物業

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

11,100
550

11,650

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

10,800
300

11,100

550

300

128

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Cont’d)

36.  公平值計量（續）

(b)  Valuation techniques and inputs used in Level 2 fair value 

(b)  第 2 級公平值計量所用之估值

measurement
The  fair  value  of  derivative  financial  instruments  are 
determined  based  on  observable  market  price  which  are 
sourced  from  broker  quotes,  inter-dealer  prices  or  other 
reliable pricing services as provided by a financial institution. 
The  fair  value  of  unlisted  convertible  bonds  is  determined 
using binomial  option  pricing  models and discounted cash 
flows  for  different  components.  Most  significant  inputs  are 
observable market data including quoted market prices and 
market interest rates.

技術及輸入數據
衍生金融工具之公平值乃根據
源 自 金 融 機 構 提 供 的 經 紀 報
價、證券商之間的價格或其他
可靠之定價服務可觀察市價釐
定。非上市可換股債券之公平
值乃按其不同部份採用二項式
期權定價模型及貼現現金流量
釐定。重大輸入數據大部分為
可觀察市場數據，包括所報之
市價及市場利率。

(c)  Valuation techniques and inputs used in Level 3 fair value 

(c)  第 3 級公平值計量所用之估值

measurement
As  mentioned  in  note  14  to  the  consolidated  financial 
statements,  the  Group’s  investment  properties  as  at  31 
December 2014 were revalued by Roma Appraisals Limited, 
an  independent  professional  qualified  valuer,  on  market 
value basis using direct comparison approach.

The  fair  value  of  investment  properties  using  direct 
comparison approach is based on the assumption of selling 
the  properties  in  their  respective  existing  states  with  the 
benefit  of  vacant  possession  and  by  making  reference  to 
comparable  sales  transactions  as  available  in  the  relevant 
market. The valuations take into account the characteristic 
of the investment properties including the location, size, floor 
level, year of completion and other factors collectively.

技術及輸入數據
正如綜合財務報表附註 14 所
述，本集團於二零一四年十二
月三十一日之投資物業已由獨
立專業合資格估值師羅馬國際
評估有限公司採用直接比較法
按市值基準重新估計。

採用直接比較法之投資物業公
平值乃按以物業各自現狀及交
吉形式出售之假設為基準以及
參考相關市場中之可資比較銷
售交易。估值經計入投資物業
之 特 性， 包 括 地 點、 面 積 大
小、樓層、竣工年份以及其他
因素。

129

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
36.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Cont’d)

36.  公平值計量（續）

(c)  Valuation techniques and inputs used in Level 3 fair value 

(c)  第 3 級公平值計量所用之估值

measurement (Cont’d)
The quantitative information of the significant unobservable 
input  and  description  of  the  approach  of  valuation 
methodology  used  in  Level  3  fair  value  measurement  for 
investment  properties,  including  the  description  of  the 
sensitivity  to  changes  in  unobservable  inputs  for  recurring 
Level 3 fair value measurement, is as follows:

技術及輸入數據（續）
有關投資物業之第 3 級公平值
計量所用之重大不可觀察輸入
數據之量化資訊及估值法之說
明（包 括 對 第 3 級 公 平 值 計 量
常用之不可觀察輸入數據變動
之敏感度說明）如下：

Valuation
approach
估值法

Unobservable
input
不可觀察輸入數據

Range
範圍

Sensitivity
to changes
變動之敏感度

Direct
  Comparison
  Approach
直接比較法

Prices of
  comparable
  properties
可資比較物業之
  價格

Around HK$12,000
to HK$13,000 per
sq.ft. with better
characteristics
每平方尺約 12,000 港元
至 13,000 港元，
但具有更優良特性

The increase in prices
of comparable properties
would result in increase in
the fair value, and vice versa
可資比較物業
價格升高，公平值
將提高，反之亦然。

(d)  Valuation process of the Group

(d)  本集團之估值流程

Some of  the  Group’s  assets  are  measured at fair value for 
financial reporting purposes. The directors of the Company 
are  responsible  for  determining  the  appropriate  valuation 
techniques and inputs for fair value measurements.

In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group 
uses  market-observable  data  to  the  extent  it  is  available. 
Where Level 1 inputs are not available, the Group engages 
third party qualified valuers to perform the valuation where 
appropriate.  The  directors  of  the  Company  work  with  the 
valuers  to  establish  the  appropriate  valuation  techniques 
and inputs to the model. The directors regularly assess the 
impact and the cause of fluctuations in the fair value of the 
assets and liabilities.

The Group uses valuation techniques that include inputs that 
are not based on observable market data to estimate the fair 
value of certain types of investment properties and financial 
instruments.  Note  36  (a)  to  (c)  above  provide  detailed 
information about the valuation techniques, inputs and key 
assumptions  used  in  the  determination  of  the  fair  value  of 
various assets and liabilities.

本集團部分資產就財務呈報日
的按公平值計量。本公司董事
負責就公平值計量釐定適用估
值技術及輸入數據。

於 估 計 資 產 或 負 債 之 公 平 值
時，本集團使用可用市場可觀
察數據。倘第 1 級之輸入數據
不可用，本集團將在適當情況
下委聘第三方合資格估值師進
行估值。本公司董事將與估值
師合作，制訂合適之估值技術
及模式輸入數據。董事定期評
估資產及負債公平值波動之影
響及原因。

於估計若干類別投資物業及金
融工具之公平值時，本集團採
用包括並非根據可觀察市場數
據之輸入數據之估值技術。有
關用於釐定各種資產及負債公
平值之估值技術、輸入數據及
主要假設之詳細資料載於上文
附註 36 (a) 至 (c)。

130

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Cont’d)

36.  公平值計量（續）

(e)  Fair  values  of  financial  assets  and  liabilities  carried  at 

other than fair value
Except  for  certain  available-for-sale  financial  assets  for 
which fair values cannot be measured reliably, the carrying 
amount of the Group’s loan and other receivables and other 
payables that are carried at cost or amortised cost are not 
materially different from their fair values as at 31 December 
2014 and 2013.

(e)  非按公平價值列賬的財務資產
及財務負債的公平價值
除若干可供出售財務資產之公
平值無法可靠計量之外，本集
團按成本或攤銷成本列賬之貸
款及其他應收款項及其他應付
款項之賬面值與其於二零一四
年及二零一三年十二月三十一
日之公平值並無重大差異。

37.  CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

37.  資本管理

The  objectives  of  the  Group’s  capital  management  are  to 
safeguard  the  Group’s  ability  to  continue  as  a  going  concern 
and to provide returns for shareholders. The Group manages its 
capital  structure  and  makes  adjustments,  including  payment  of 
dividends to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue 
new shares or sell assets to reduce debts. The capital structure 
of  the  Group  consists  of  net  debts,  cash  and  cash  equivalents 
and equity attributable to shareholders (comprising issued share 
capital and reserves). No changes were made in the objectives, 
policies or processes during the years ended 31 December 2014 
and 2013.

本集團資本管理之目標為保障本集
團之持續經營能力及為股東提供回
報。 本 集 團 管 理 及 調 整 其 資 本 架
構，包括向股東派息、向股東退還
股本或發行新股或出售資產以減少
負債。本集團的資本架構包括債務
淨額、現金及現金等值以及股東應
佔股權（包括已發行股本及儲備）。
截至二零一四年及二零一三年十二
月三十一日止年度，有關目標、政
策及程序概無變動。

131

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
38.  COMMITMENTS

38.  承擔

Capital expenditure commitments
At  the  end  of  the  reporting  period,  the  Group  had  the  following 
capital expenditure commitments:

資本開支承擔
於呈報期結算日，本集團有以下資
本開支承擔：

Contracted but not provided for,
  net of deposit paid in the consolidated

financial statements:

Acquisition of an investment property

(note 40 (a))

Acquisition of yacht (note 32)
Others

已訂約但未於綜合財務
  報表計提撥備但
  已扣除已付按金：
收購投資物業
  （附註 40(a)）
收購遊艇（附註 32）
其他

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

21,600
43,751
—

65,351

—
—
13

13

Commitments under operating leases – the Group as lessee
At  the  end  of  the  reporting  period,  the  Group  had  total  future 
minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases 
in respect of office equipment and premises, which are payable 
as follows:

經營租約承擔一本集團作為承租人
於呈報期結算日，本集團就有關辦
公室設備及樓宇之不可撤銷經營租
約的應付未來最低租金總額如下：

Within one year
In the second to fifth
  years inclusive

一年內
第二年至第五年（包括
  首尾兩年）

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

5,468

2,374

7,842

1,784

961

2,745

132

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38.  COMMITMENTS (Cont’d)

38.  承擔（續）

Commitments under operating leases – the Group as lessor
At  the  end  of  reporting  period,  the  future  aggregate  minimum 
rental receivables under non-cancellable operating leases are as 
follows:

經營租約承擔－本集團作為出租人
於呈報期結算日，不可撤銷經營租
約的應收未來最低租金總額如下：

2014
二零一四年
HK$’ 000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’ 000
千港元

Within one year

一年內

108

108

39.  CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

39.  或然負債

At  the  end  of  the  reporting  period,  the  Company  had  provided 
corporate  guarantees  for  banking  facilities  amounting  to 
HK$13,709,000 (2013: HK$13,709,000) and HK$4,550,000 (2013: 
HK$4,550,000) granted  to  the  Group’s  ex-subsidiaries  and  a 
subsidiary,  which  were  utilised  to  the  extent  of  HK$13,709,000 
(2013: HK$13,709,000) and HK$4,183,000 (2013: HK$4,362,000) 
respectively.  The  directors  assessed  the  fair  value  of  overall 
exposure  of  the  corporate  guarantees  granted  by  the  Company 
and  considered  that  it  is  immaterial  to  the  financial  statements 
of  the  Group  and  the  Company.  In  respect  of  the  provision 
of  corporate  guarantees  to  the  investee  companies,  the 
Group  earned  corporate  guarantee  fee  of  HK$418,000 (2013: 
HK$1,304,000) during the year.

於 呈 報 期 結 算 日， 本 公 司 已 就 歌
德 集 團 及 附 屬 公 司 獲 授 之 銀 行 信
貸13,709,000港 元（二零一三年：
13,709,000港元）及4,550,000港 元
（二零一三年：4,550,000港元）提供
公司擔保，其中已動用信貸額分別
為13,709,000港 元（二零一三年：
13,709,000港元）及4,183,000港 元
（二零一三年：4,362,000港元）。董
事評估本公司授出之公司擔保之整
體風險的公平值，認為於本集團及
本公司之財務報表屬輕微。對於向
被投資公司提供公司擔保，本集團
於本年度內賺取公司擔保費418,000
港元（二零一三年：1,304,000港元）。

133

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDNotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40.  EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD

40.  呈報期後事項

The Group had the following events after the end of the reporting 
period:

於呈報期結算日後，本集團發生以
下事項：

(a) 

In  December  2014,  the  Group  entered  into  a  sale  and 
purchase agreement with an independent third party, for the 
acquisition of an investment property located in Hong Kong 
at an aggregate cash consideration of HK$24,000,000. The 
acquisition was completed in January 2015.

In  February  2015,  the  Group  entered  into  a  sale  and 
purchase agreement with an independent third party, for the 
acquisition of an investment property located in Hong Kong 
at an aggregate cash consideration of HK$25,500,000. The 
acquisition is expected to be completed in April 2015.

(b) 

In  March  2015,  the  Company  entered  into  a  subscription 
agreement  with  a  corporate  investor  pursuant  to  which 
the  Company  has  conditionally  agreed  to  subscribe  for 
1,500,000,000 shares of the corporate investor, representing 
approximately 18.94% of the enlarged issued share capital 
of  the  corporate  investor,  for  a  total  consideration  of 
HK$150,000,000  and  the  Company  shall  allot  and  issue 
1,250,000,000  shares,  representing  approximately  8.14% 
of the enlarged issued share capital of the Company for an 
aggregate  consideration  of  HK$150,000,000.  These  two 
transactions have not yet been completed at the date of this 
report.

(a)  於二零一四年十二月，本集團
就 收 購 位 於 香 港 的 一 項 投 資
物 業 與 一 名 獨 立 第 三 方 訂 立
買 賣 協 議， 現 金 代 價 總 額 為
24,000,000 港元。該項收購已
於二零一五年一月完成。

於 二 零 一 五 年 二 月， 本 集 團
就 收 購 位 於 香 港 的 一 項 投 資
物 業 與 一 名 獨 立 第 三 方 訂 立
買 賣 協 議， 現 金 代 價 總 額 為
25,500,000 港元。該項收購預
期於二零一五年四月完成。

(b)  於 二 零 一 五 年 三 月， 本 公
司 與 一 名 企 業 投 資 者 訂 立
認 購 協 議， 據 此， 本 公 司
有 條 件 同 意 認 購 該 企 業 投
資 者 1,500,000,000 股 股
份， 佔 企 業 投 資 者 經 擴 大
已 發 行 股 本 約 18.94%，
總 代 價 為 150,000,000 港
元， 以 及 本 公 司 將 須 配 發
及 發 行 1,250,000,000 股 股
份， 佔 本 公 司 經 擴 大 已 發 行
股 本 約 8.14%， 總 代 價 為
150,000,000 港元。於本報告
日期，此兩項交易尚未完成。

134

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements綜合財務報表附註Year ended 31 December 2014 截至二零一四年十二月三十一日止年度 2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
A  summary  of  the  results  and  of  the  assets  and  liabilities  of  the 
Group  for  the  last  five  financial  years,  as  extracted  from  the  audited 
consolidated financial statements and reclassified as appropriate, is set 
out below.

以下為本集團於過去五個財政年度之業
績與資產及負債摘要，摘錄自經審核綜
合財務報表並經適當重新分類。

RESULTS

業績

Year ended 31 December
截至十二月三十一日止年度

2014
二零一四年
HK$’000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’000
千港元

2012
二零一二年
HK$’000
千港元

2011
二零一一年
HK$’000
千港元

2010
二零一零年
HK$’000
千港元

Turnover

營業額

567,888

45,346

27,880

(31,180)

55,698

Profit (Loss) before taxation

除稅前溢利（虧損）

744,146

82,436

(153,590)

(554,527)

(192,694)

Taxation

稅項

(16)

(43)

40

(288)

(2,905)

Profit (Loss) for the year

本年度內溢利（虧損）

744,130

82,393

(153,550)

(554,815)

(195,599)

Non-controlling interests

非控股權益

—

—

(36)

2,517

26,314

Profit (Loss) for the year attributable 
to equity holders of the Company

本公司權益持有人應佔本年度
  內溢利（虧損）

744,130

82,393

(153,586)

(552,298)

(169,285)

135

威利國際控股有限公司    WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITEDSummary of Financial Information財務資料摘要2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

資產及負債

Investment properties
Property, plant and equipment
Interest in associates
Interest in joint venture
Available-for-sale financial assets
Other investments
Deposit for acquisition of
investment properties

Loans receivable
Current assets
Current liabilities
Unsecured bonds
Deferred tax liabilities

投資物業
物業、廠房及設備
聯營公司權益
合營公司權益
可供出售財務資產
其他投資
購買投資物業
  之按金
應收貸款
流動資產
流動負債
無抵押債券
遞延稅項負債

2014
二零一四年
HK$’000
千港元

2013
二零一三年
HK$’000
千港元

2012
二零一二年
HK$’000
千港元

2011
二零一一年
HK$’000
千港元

2010
二零一零年
HK$’000
千港元

11,650
657
995,771
559,945
49,295
4,580

2,400
—
974,883
(13,520)
(20,000)
(59)

11,100
419
35,785
—
604,620
4,580

—
—
1,161,832
(6,979)
—
(43)

10,800
1,235
—
—
624,371
4,580

—
1,614
1,065,105
(6,491)
—
—

—
2,597
567,829
—
104,717
4,580

830
3,051
1,142,855
(36,643)
—
—

—
5,343
583,281
—
26,020
—

—
4,000
1,373,487
(3,495)
—
—

2,565,602

1,811,314

1,701,214

1,789,816

1,988,636

Equity holders’ funds
Non-controlling interests

權益持有人資金
非控股權益

2,565,602
—

1,811,314
—

1,701,214
—

1,792,583
(2,767)

1,988,636
—

2,565,602

1,811,314

1,701,214

1,789,816

1,988,636

136

WILLIE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED    威利國際控股有限公司Summary of Financial Information財務資料摘要2014 Annual Report  年度報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
